
                             1001 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Editorial: Snapshots from the nation's press

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 678 words


Trump and conservatives


Donald Trump is notable among recent Republican presidential nominees in his
talent for alienating conservatives. Those who disowned him during the campaign
include three former chairmen of the Republican National Committee, House
members Adam Kinzinger of Illinois and Justin Amash of Michigan, and
commentators George Will, Charles Krauthammer and William Kristol.



 It's safe to say that four years ago, none of them could have imagined refusing
to vote for the 2016 GOP presidential nominee. Trump violated their sense of
what the Republican Party represents, and they and many other people on the
right couldn't accept him at the top of the ticket.

 But he won, and he will enter the White House with the Republican Party
controlling both houses of Congress. The question is how closely he and
congressional Republicans will be aligned. If Trump adopts their agenda, it will
be a happy and generally positive partnership. But if he goes his own way, they
will have to decide whether to go with him.

 Power offers opportunities, but also temptations. Trump will want to define the
Republican agenda according to his own impulses, which are neither consistent
nor predictable.

 The GOP has always been the party of conservatism, but it and its presidents
have not always upheld conservative principles. Over the next four years,
conservatives are likely to have many occasions when they can support President
Trump because he is pursuing conservative policies. But they need to be prepared
to show they won't sacrifice principles to political convenience.

 Much of what he has advocated in the campaign fits well with the goals of
limited government, judicial restraint, free markets and strong national
defense. Conservatives also should find plenty in common with Trump when it
comes to reforming the tax code, making judicial appointments in the mold of
Antonin Scalia, replacing Obamacare, eliminating onerous regulations and getting
our allies to spend more on their military forces.

 But he exhibits some tendencies that are not conservative at all. Among them:
His suspicion of free trade, his faith that tough enforcement can overcome the
failures of an irrational immigration system, his taste for expansive
presidential power and his free-spending fiscal proposals.

 Will Republicans in Congress and conservatives elsewhere have the backbone to
resist him on issues like these?

 --Chicago Tribune

 Educate our prisoners



 A new study highlights U.S. prisoners' lack of education, and the secretary of
education has taken the opportunity to issue a "Dear Colleague" letter arguing
for educating them. It's a good idea.

 According to the study from the U.S. Program for the International Assessment
of Adult Competencies, 29 percent of inmates fell below a fairly simple level of
literacy. That level, set out by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, required an individual to perform tasks such as find the "contact
us" link on a website if asked to locate the organization's phone number.

 Education Secretary John King Jr. points out that most inmates will return to
society. He says that once they're released, inmates who are educated in prison
are 58 percent more likely to find a job and 43 percent less likely to return to
crime than those who are not.

 Inmates are interested. Among those in the study, 70 percent said they'd like
to take a class or program. A quarter of those who wanted to enroll were on
waiting lists to do so. Meanwhile, just 21 percent of inmates in the study were
working on a degree or certificate.

 The report does not make clear why all the inmates who want more education
aren't pursuing degrees or certificates. One reason, however, is clear from the
waiting lists: There aren't enough opportunities available, or the opportunities
available don't meet the inmates' needs. So more seats should be opened in
prison educational programs.

 --Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

Will conservatives who opposed Donald Trump during the Republican primaries
stand up to him when his policies diverge from theirs?

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Will conservatives who opposed Donald Trump during the Republican
primaries stand up to him when his policies diverge from theirs?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1002 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

The 'rigged' election

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 880 words


Americans are accustomed to accepting the outcome of even the closest and
hardest-fought presidential elections -- even those, such as the 2000 race that
put George W. Bush in the White House, in which the winner of the electoral vote
didn't prevail in the popular vote.

Yet three weeks after the final ballots were cast in the 2016 election, the
notion that the contest was "rigged" or otherwise lacking in legitimacy is
alarmingly widespread. A YouGov poll conducted from Nov. 11-14 found that 22
percent of respondents thought the election was rigged. Among Democrats the
number was 42 percent.

 So pronounced is the disquiet that some usually serious commentators are
spinning scenarios about reversing Donald J. Trump's victory through recounts or
a revolt by members of the Electoral College. That seems highly unlikely. Even
the Clinton campaign noted that it "had not uncovered any actionable evidence of
hacking or outside attempts to alter the voting technology." As for the
Electoral College, there is no indication that a substantial number of electors
will rebel and support Clinton.

 Nevertheless, the unease is real. And whatever one thinks of the outcome of the
election -- and this page endorsed Hillary Clinton and repeatedly described
Trump as unfit -- a perception that the election was unfair is corrosive.

 To some extent, the popularity of the "rigged" theory reflects widespread
disaffection with Trump, whose often offensive campaign rhetoric has inspired
protests of "Not My President." But it also feeds on real and perceived
interference with the election -- by Russian hackers, by the director of the FBI
and by Republican officials who made it harder for Democratic-leaning citizens
to vote -- and on fear-mongering about imaginary voter fraud.

 Ironically, the chief culprit in propagating the myth of that sort of "rigging"
is Trump himself. During the campaign he sowed doubt about the integrity of the
election process, and even after his victory he has been peddling utterly
unsubstantiated claims about "millions" of illegally cast votes (in an effort to
explain away his second-place finish in the popular vote). On Sunday the
president-elect tweeted: "Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and
California -- so why isn't the media reporting on this? Serious bias -- big
problem!" The actual big problem, as California secretary of state Alex Padilla
noted, was that Trump's allegations were unsubstantiated and absurd.

 That's not to say that there aren't real issues and problems contributing to
public disaffection that need to be acknowledged and addressed. The Electoral
College, for instance, is an anti-democratic anachronism that should be
abolished through a constitutional amendment. But its existence isn't proof that
the election was "rigged"; if Clinton had won an electoral-vote majority and
finished second in the popular vote, her supporters would happily have
congratulated her.

 The hacking of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta's emails and those of the
Democratic National Committee -- by Russian state actors, according to some U.S.
intelligence officials -- suggests that a foreign government might have utilized
technology to embarrass one candidate in a U.S. election and boost the candidate
it preferred. That sort of interference is outrageous and ought to concern
American officials regardless of their party.

 While it's impossible to prove that it cost Clinton the election, FBI Director
James Comey's announcement on Oct. 28 that he was reopening the investigation
into her use as secretary of state of a private email server -- and his
follow-up two days before the election reaffirming he would not seek charges
against her -- revived an issue that the Democratic candidate thought she had
put behind her.

 Comey's action violated the fundamental principle that the Justice Department
doesn't take unnecessary action close to Election Day that might affect the
outcome. In the future, he -- or his successors -- must refrain from such
intervention in the political process.

 Finally, there is at least some evidence that certain Republican legislatures
made it harder for Democratic-leaning voters to cast their ballots and might
have cost Clinton votes. The top election official in Milwaukee, for instance,
said that a Wisconsin law requiring photo ID for voters probably contributed to
declines in turnout in poor areas of that city.

 Laws and policies that depress the vote are objectionable and ought to be
reversed. But they aren't proof that the election was "rigged" in the sense that
votes were fixed or fraudulent or intentionally tampered with. The distinction
matters -- even if the election has produced a president who has trouble making
distinctions.

 --Los Angeles Times

In this Nov. 8 file photo, people vote at a polling place set up at the Kenter
Canyon Elementary School in Los Angeles. Tweets alone don't make it true. Donald
Trump won the presidency last month even as he lost the popular vote to Democrat
Hillary Clinton, according to The Associated Press's vote-counting operation and
election experts. Trump nonetheless tweeted on Nov. 26 that he won the popular
vote. and alleged there was "serious voter fraud" in California, New Hampshire
and Virginia. There's no evidence to back up those claims.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In this Nov. 8 file photo, people vote at a polling place set up at the
Kenter Canyon Elementary School in Los Angeles. Tweets alone don't make it true.
Donald Trump won the presidency last month even as he lost the popular vote to
Democrat Hillary Clinton, according to The Associated Press's vote-counting
operation and election experts. Trump nonetheless tweeted on Nov. 26 that he won
the popular vote. and alleged there was "serious voter fraud" in California, New
Hampshire and Virginia. There's no evidence to back up those claims.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1003 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Editorial: Recount campaign could poison democratic process

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 614 words


The tweeter-in-chief was busy last  weekend, ranting over a move by Jill Stein,
Green Party candidate for president, to challenge the votes in Michigan,
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania -- states where Donald Trump defeated Hillary Clinton
by narrow margins.

Trump tweeted that Stein's actions were a "scam" and that he not only won the
electoral vote, but would have won the popular vote on Nov. 8 were it not for
millions of "illegal" votes cast.

 He offered no proof because there is none. Clinton leads her Republican
opponent by more than 2 million votes nationwide. There is no evidence that
there were many illegal votes, let alone several million.

 Trump has complained long and loud about vote fraud and "rigged elections." But
that was before he won the presidency. If he were a normal politician, it would
seem odd that he would claim to win the popular vote when there is hard evidence
he did not. But, then, the president-elect is not a normal politician. Not a
normal man, for that matter.

 Trump is going with the flow of his party, though. Republicans have made claims
of voter fraud part of their brand. (The rule of thumb is: If the Republican
candidate wins, the system works fine; if a Democrat wins, it must be because of
fraud.)

 What's surprising is to see that Stein -- with an assist from the Clinton camp
-- has picked up that cudgel to cast doubt on the validity of the totals in
Michigan, where Trump won by 10,704 votes; Wisconsin, where his margin was
22,177 votes; and Pennsylvania, which Trump won by 71,294 votes.

 In Pennsylvania, she has gone to court asking it to force a recount of votes in
the state because of the possibility of fraud. Her problem is: There are no
allegations of fraud. She has no examples of fraudulent voting in the state.
What she has is a paper by a computer science professor who has written that
voting systems are vulnerable to attacks by hackers. (The same professor has
written that there is no evidence that hacking occurred in this election.)

 So, Stein has no evidence of fraud, by hacking or other means, but she feels it
is imperative to conduct official (and very expensive recounts) to answer doubts
she has raised about the integrity of voting system.

 For the record, Stein has said she does not believe a recount would result in a
change in the outcomes in the three states. Nor would it help her candidacy. She
got 1 percent of the popular vote nationwide on Nov. 8. She got 49,312 votes out
of 6 million cast in Pennsylvania.

 We don't know whether to laugh or cry over Stein's and Trump's allegations.
Absent any credible evidence to the contrary, losing an election is not proof
that your opponent engaged in fraud. It means he got more votes. Losing a close
election is not proof of fraud or vote tampering. It means the election was
close. The history books are filled with examples of elections in which a
candidate won by one vote, or a dozen. There have even been ties.

 Casting doubts on the results also casts doubt on the integrity of thousands of
voting officials -- Republicans and Democrats -- who work hard to make sure the
voting system functions honestly and well, often with bare-bones budgets.

 As a nation, we cannot embrace the notion that all elections are rigged and
infested with fraud, that magical and mysterious forces are fixing the outcome
in advance. Such poisonous beliefs could be fatal to the notion of democracy.

 --Philadelphia Daily News

In this Sept. 21 file photo, Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein
delivers remarks at Wilkes University in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Stein has formed an
organization to try to force recounts of the election results in Wisconsin,
Michigan and Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In this Sept. 21 file photo, Green Party presidential candidate Jill
Stein delivers remarks at Wilkes University in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Stein has
formed an organization to try to force recounts of the election results in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1004 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Barry Aaron: Green Party does it again

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 204 words


"It's deja vu all over again." -- Yogi Berra

They say that those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it. So
once again this year, the so-called "Green Party" showed that it has learned
nothing from history by endorsing a presidential candidate with absolutely no
hope of winning the election, thus helping to propel yet another
non-environmentalist, climate-change denier into the White House.



 As most of us will recall, Ralph Nader's Green Party candidacy in 2000 cost Al
Gore --a true environmentalist and author of "An Inconvenient Truth" about
global warming -- the presidential election, despite Gore's overwhelming popular
vote victory over "W." (Nader garnered over 97,000 votes in Florida, which
ultimately went to Bush by only about 500 votes, thus giving Bush the Electoral
College plurality and the win.)

 This year, Jill Stein, who had no possible chance of winning the election, may
well have cost Hillary Clinton enough votes in Michigan (where Stein drew about
50,000) and Wisconsin (31,000) to help propel Trump over the magical 270
electoral vote mark.

 How ironic that it is Jill Stein who is now demanding a recount of this year's
election results in three key swing states.

 Barry Aaron

 Boulder

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1005 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Judith Jarke: Embarrassed for my country

BYLINE: Judith Jarke

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 415 words


I am a 61-year-old, Caucasian, college-educated woman, living in the state of
Colorado. I voted for Secretary Clinton in the presidential election. While
disappointed in the election's outcome, I pulled myself together and decided to
give Mr. Trump the benefit of the doubt. He gave a basically good acceptance
speech. He went to the White House and seemed to be deferential and respectful
towards President Obama. But, then it happened. He tweeted!

In today's parlance, OMG! Does he never think before he tweets? I am tired of
Mr. Trump's staff and supporters "spinning" his behavior. He seems to have no
awareness of just how many people he has offended throughout the campaign, as
well as with that tweet shortly after the election  which denigrated the
protesters around the country.

 On one of the news stations, I heard a Trump supporter say that "they (his
supporters) didn't take his language seriously, only his platform, whereas the
rest of us took his language seriously and not his platform." Mr. Trump's people
keep saying he's a lovely, gracious man. Those of us who don't know him
personally, do not know  that. When you don't know someone, you tend to judge
them by what they tell you, and how they behave. Mr. Trump has to know, but I'm
guessing doesn't care, that he behaves like an ill-mannered child at best.

 I have been offended beyond belief by Mr. Trump. I cannot bear to think of him
as my President. I am embarrassed for my country; that he will be our
representative to the world! He is expected to act with dignity, compassion, and
decency. Recently, I heard him say he didn't regret his behavior during the
campaign because he won. At what cost? I fear for our civilized society.

 In the coming weeks before the inauguration, Mr. Trump needs a crash course in
how to speak and behave properly. And if he is truly interested in bringing the
country together, he needs to gain an understanding of why half the people of
this country are upset with the outcome of the election and then address that
issue with the people. This country is not Trump Corporation. Mr. Trump cannot
fire those of us who have issues with him as a human being. People should not be
expected to just "fall in line" and move on as if it's business as usual. What
happened throughout the campaign was anything but usual. It's one thing to be
unconventional, but to be outrageously and blatantly offensive is not acceptable
from anyone, least of all our President.

 Judith Jarke lives in Boulder.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1006 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Sharon Schryver: Electors have a moral duty

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 109 words


Alexander Hamilton contended, in Federalist No. 68, that the Electoral College
prevents influence by foreign interests in the U.S. presidential election. James
Madison argued in Federalist No. 10 that the Electoral College protects the
Republic from mischiefs of faction, citizens united by a common impulse that is
adverse to the rights of other citizens. The Electoral College was created to
protect the republic from a candidate like Donald Trump and it is time for the
electors to fulfill this duty. The electors have the constitutional right, and
the moral responsibility, to support the popular vote-winner in this election.

Sharon Schryver

 Erie

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1007 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        Sunday Telegram (Massachusetts)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Democrats at crossroads

SECTION: OPINION; 4

LENGTH: 599 words


While the challenges of the GOP -- its long-term demographic difficulties, its
erratic leadership, the bitter struggle for its ideological soul -- are obscured
by victory, the problems of the Democratic Party are on full display.

The losing party would be foolish to minimize the scale of its political
failure. Hillary Clinton proved incapable of defeating a reality television host
whom more than 60 percent of Americas viewed as unfit to be president. It is
perhaps the most humiliating moment in the long history of Mr. Jefferson's
party. But the effect is more than reputational. The Democratic candidate and
her team could not protect America from a serious risk to its ideals and
institutions by an untested and unstable novice who flirted with
authoritarianism and made enough gaffes on an average Tuesday to sink a normal
presidential campaign.

But here is the largest, long-term Democratic challenge: It has become a
provincial party. It is highly concentrated in urban areas and clings to the
coasts. But our constitutional system puts emphasis on holding geography,
particularly in the House of Representatives and the Electoral College. It is
difficult for Democrats to prevail from isolated islands of deep blue. In 2012,
President Obama won the presidency with fewer than 700 counties out of more than
3,000 in America -- a historical low. Clinton carried a little over 500 -- about
15 percent of the total.

This is another way of saying that the Democratic candidate for president can't
prevail -- at least at the moment -- when she receives less than 30 percent of
the vote from the white, non-college educated Americans who live in the spaces
between the cities. Most of these voters were not examining public policy and
calculating their interests -- except in the vague sense that they don't like
sending American jobs abroad and don't want anyone messing with their Social
Security. They were convinced that Trump has their back. Democrats have become
estranged from white, working-class America.

What are the Democratic options moving forward? First, there is the Bernie
Sanders option -- a leftist populism that amounts to democratic socialism. This
might be called the Jeremy Corbyn option, after the leftist leader of the
British Labour Party who has ideologically purified his party into political
irrelevance. Second, is the Joe Biden option -- a liberalism with a sustained
outreach to union members and other blue-collar workers while showing a Catholic
religious sensibility on issues of social justice. Third, is the option of
doubling down on the proven Barack Obama option, which requires a candidate who
can excite rather than sedate the Obama-era base.

Democrats should not overlearn the lessons of a close election. Option No. 3 is
the Democratic future on the presidential level. Clinton was correct to appeal
to a slightly modified version of the Obama coalition (fewer African-American
and millennial voters, but more support from Latinos and college-educated
women). She simply could not pull it off. For the foreseeable future, Democrats
will also need a dash of No. 2, including a more accommodating attitude toward
religion and associational rights. In this election, evangelicals and white
Catholics sensed real hostility to their institutions from law school
liberalism.

There is a serious prospect, however, that Democrats will choose No. 1. If so,
America would cease to have a center-left party and a center-right party. Both
radicalized institutions would exaggerate our national differences, and the
cause of national unity would be damaged even further.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1008 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        Sunday Telegram (Massachusetts)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Worcester TG Edition

As upsets go, Truman trumps Trump

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 511 words


Good or bad, however you feel about Donald Trump's election, it is nothing new
in history.

Indeed, despite claims that Trump's election is the biggest upset ever, Harry S.
Truman's election in 1948 was a far bigger upset. Truman was such an underdog
that pollsters stopped polling weeks before the election, convinced that the
Republican Thomas Dewey would defeat the Democrat Truman in a landslide. The
pro-Dewey Chicago Daily Tribune even published its election issue with the
headline "Dewey Defeats Truman" before the returns were in (and the next day the
easily re-elected Truman gleefully displayed that issue for all to see).

That said, the Trump-Truman comparison is instructive because both men were
controversial, and to those worried that Trump will exceed his presidential
powers, Truman often exceeded his. On several occasions he took control of
entire industries, including settling a nationwide steelworkers strike by
unilaterally seizing the nation's steel mills. In the 1946 midterm elections,
the Democratic Party lost both branches of Congress, for which the unpopular
Truman was largely blamed.

Granted, on balance Truman was a first-rate president, but that didn't stop
millions of Americans from seeing his election in 1948 as the ruination of the
country, just as today millions think the same of Trump.

The Founding Fathers anticipated all of this. In the Federalist Papers written
to explain the Constitution, James Madison wrote that presidential candidates
would not always be "enlightened statesmen," which is why the Founders created a
government in which the power of each branch of the government, including the
executive branch, would be checked and balanced by the power of the other
branches.

Further, there is the ultimate sovereign power of the people themselves, who
ultimately decide who will serve in our government. In 1946, the people gave
Republicans a majority in the legislative branch partly because they disapproved
of the policies of the Democrat who headed up the executive branch. In two
midterm elections, 2010 and 2014, they did the same to President Obama. If
Donald Trump pursues unpopular policies unchecked by his Republican Congress,
he, and the Republican Congress, will also face the voters' displeasure.

As well as face the displeasure of the judicial branch, which the Founders
specifically created to check unconstitutional violations of the people's rights
by the legislative and executive branches. The Supreme Court eventually ruled
that Truman's nationalizing the steel mills was an unconstitutional overreach,
and they will keep a watchful eye on Trump as well.

"If angels were to govern men, neither external nor internal controls on
government would be necessary," Madison wrote. But since we are governed by
imperfect humans, including all of our presidents, such controls are necessarily
in place.

In this Nov. 4, 1948, photo, President Harry S. Truman holds up an Election Day
edition of the Chicago Daily Tribune, which, based on early results, mistakenly
announced "Dewey Defeats Truman." T&G File Photo

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1009 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Trump, Pence eye Romney, Mattis

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 952 words


BEDMINSTER, N.J. -- President-elect Donald Trump said Sunday that he had "made a
couple of deals" after spending the weekend meeting with a long list of
potential administration appointees, but he did not reveal any more picks.

Trump and the vice president-elect, Mike Pence, did drop some hints. Pence said
that Mitt Romney was "under active and serious consideration" to become the
nation's next secretary of state. Trump said retired Marine Corps Gen. James
Mattis was an "impressive" prospect for defense secretary.

"I think we have some really incredible people going to be working for the
country,"

SEE trump,  A7

Trump said Sunday evening. "We really had some incredible meetings. You'll be
hearing about them soon."

Among the visitors to the white-pillared clubhouse Sunday were Kansas Secretary
of State Kris Kobach, billionaire investor Wilbur Ross and retired Marine Gen.
John Kelly, the former commander of U.S. Southern Command.

Between conversations, Trump revealed he was making plans for transitioning his
family. He told reporters that his wife, Melania, and their 10-year-old son,
Barron, would move to Washington when the school year ends.

And Trump turned to Twitter to share some of his thinking. In between criticisms
of "Saturday Night Live," the hit musical "Hamilton," and Democrats, he wrote
that, "General James 'Mad Dog' Mattis, who is being considered for secretary of
defense, was very impressive yesterday. A true General's General!"

The comments were indications that Trump is looking outside his immediate circle
as he works toward rounding out his foreign policy and national security teams.
On Friday, he named a loyalist, retired Gen. Michael Flynn, as his national
security adviser.

Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 GOP presidential contender,
and Trump exchanged bitter insults during the campaign, and Mattis has not been
considered a Trump confidante. The appointment of more establishment figures
could offer some reassurance to lawmakers and others concerned about Trump's
hard-line positions on immigration and national security and his lack of foreign
policy experience.

Trump told reporters Sunday that one of his most loyal and public allies, former
New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, was also a prospect for secretary of state "and
other things." Giuliani at one point had been considered for attorney general,
but Trump gave that job to Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama.

The businessman and president-elect also apparently was considering options to
lead the Commerce Department, meeting with Ross.

"Time will tell," Ross told reporters when asked if he wanted a post.

More meetings are on Trump's Monday schedule. His transition team said former
Texas governor and GOP presidential rival Rick Perry was expected to meet with
Trump on Monday.

But even as Trump and his team discussed pressing issues facing the country and
how to staff the incoming administration, the president-elect's Twitter feed
suggested other issues too were on his mind.

His targets Sunday included retiring Democratic leader Harry Reid. Trump tweeted
that incoming Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, another media-savvy New
Yorker, was "far smarter" than Reid and "has the ability to get things done."

Trump also complained that "Saturday Night Live," which thrives on making fun of
politicians, is "biased" and not funny. The night before, actor Alec Baldwin
portrayed Trump as Googling, "What is ISIS?"

Trump also insisted again that the cast and producers of "Hamilton" should
apologize after the lead actor addressed Pence from the stage Friday night,
telling the vice president-elect that "diverse America" was "alarmed and
anxious." Pence said on CBS's "Face the Nation" that he wasn't offended.

Trump started filling key administration positions on Friday, picking Alabama
Sen. Jeff Sessions for attorney general and Kansas Rep. Mike Pompeo to head the
CIA, signaling a sharp rightward shift in U.S. security policy as he begins to
form his Cabinet. Trump also named retired Lt. Gen Michael Flynn as his national
security adviser.

Trump's initial decisions suggest a more aggressive military involvement in
counterterror strategy and a greater emphasis on Islam's role in stoking
extremism. Sessions, who is best known for his hard line immigration views, has
questioned whether terrorist suspects should benefit from the rights available
in U.S. courts. Pompeo has said Muslim leaders are "potentially complicit" in
attacks if they do not denounce violence carried out in the name of Islam.

Pompeo's nomination to lead the CIA also opens the prospect of the U.S. resuming
torture of detainees. Trump has backed harsh interrogation techniques that
President Barack Obama and Congress have banned, saying the U.S. "should go
tougher than waterboarding," which simulates drowning. In 2014, Pompeo
criticized Obama for "ending our interrogation program" and said intelligence
officials "are not torturers, they are patriots."

Sessions and Pompeo would both require Senate confirmation; Flynn would not.


From Page A1

President-elect Donald Trump gives the thumbs-up Saturday as Mitt Romney leaves
Trump National Golf Club Bedminster in Bedminster, N.J. The Associated Press

Investor Wilbur Ross waves Sunday as he arrives to meet with President-elect
Donald Trump at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse. The
Associated Press photos

President-elect Donald Trump and former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani pose Sunday
for photographs as Giuliani arrives at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster
clubhouse in Bedminster, N.J.

President-elect Donald Trump greets New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie Sunday as he
arrives at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse. The Associated
Press

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1010 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                              Worcester TG Edition

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 70 words


At a glance

Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 GOP presidential contender,
and Trump exchanged bitter insults during the campaign, and Mattis has not been
considered a Trump confidante. The appointment of more establishment figures
could offer some reassurance to lawmakers and others concerned about Trump's
hard-line positions on immigration and national security and his lack of foreign
policy experience.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1011 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Images of immigrants on view;
Photographs depict Mass. residents from 185 nations

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 635 words


BOSTON -- It didn't take a divisive presidential election to get Mark Chester
interested in immigrants. Chester has been celebrating immigrants for years,
making it his mission to photograph two people from every nation.

Chester is well on his way. Since 2011, he's photographed people from 185 of the
world's 196 countries, all of them immigrants who have settled in Massachusetts,
a state he affectionately calls "a mini United Nations." All his subjects have
become naturalized U.S. citizens.

Chester's collection of more than 350 photographs have been exhibited around
Massachusetts -- most recently at the Statehouse -- and he is now putting them
into a book he plans to distribute free to schools and libraries around the
state.

He said his project, called "The Bay State: A Multicultural Landscape --
Photographs of New Americans," has taken on new meaning since Republican
President-elect Donald Trump said during his campaign he would build a wall
along the U.S. border with Mexico and temporarily ban Muslims from entering the
U.S.

"It seems like it's more important to bring attention to this now," he said,
adding that "people from other countries are living here, they're Americans. The
purpose of this is to educate, to enlighten, to make people aware of people from
different countries."

SEE photos,  A8

"This wasn't intended to be any kind of geopolitical statement when I first
started this," he said.

Chester's photos offer a glimpse into the lives of immigrants who have embraced
their new country but retained some of the culture of their homelands.

There is 92-year-old Maria Dias, leaning on her cane in front of a beach shack
in Truro, on the tip of Cape Cod, dressed in a traditional embroidered shawl and
apron of her native Portugal.

Haseeb Hosein, originally from Trinidad and Tobago and now a Boston police
district commander, is shown smiling in front of his office, dressed in his
police blues.

Olga Kwasniewski, a native of the former Soviet republic of Uzbekistan, is shown
standing in front of Boston Harbor, wearing a sash celebrating her win in a 2013
beauty pageant.

Kwasniewski, who is now a restaurant owner and model, said she agreed to be
photographed by Chester because she thinks it's important to celebrate the
contributions immigrants make to America and the gratitude they feel to be U.S.
citizens.

"The way he is picturing people at their workplace or their home, that shows how
they are still bringing part of their country to American life, and how their
lives have changed here," she said.

Chester, 71, a professional photographer who lives on Cape Cod, is applying for
cultural grants, looking for corporate sponsors and raising private money to
publish his book. To find subjects from countries around the world, he attends
naturalization ceremonies, goes to ethnic restaurants and has even been known to
ask cab drivers where they're from.

He's still searching for people from 11 countries, including Comoros, an
archipelago off Africa's East Coast; Tonga, a Polynesian kingdom of South
Pacific Islands; and Liechtenstein, a German-speaking principality between
Austria and Switzerland.

One of the project's sponsors is the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition. Sue Parsons, MIRA's development coordinator, said Chester's
photos capture the sense of optimism many immigrants have after they settle
here.

"Each photo shows their energy, and their hopefulness shines through," Parsons
said.

From Page A1

Photographer Mark Chester stands for a portrait next to images in his exhibit
called "The Bay State: A Multicultural Landscape -- Photographs of New
Americans" at the Statehouse in Boston. The Associated Press photos

Teddy Chery, of Medford, right, pauses to examine an image that forms part of an
exhibit by photographer Mark Chester at the Statehouse in Boston.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1012 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Is Trump the first independent president?

SECTION: OPINION; 11

LENGTH: 1092 words


Viewed through any conventional lens, President-elect Donald Trump's candidacy
was improbable from start to finish. Today, two things about his victory seem to
be in sharper focus: Trump's victory might best be understood as the success of
the country's first independent president, and the Trump coalition may be even
more uniquely his than President Barack Obama's.

Think again about how he prevailed. A handful of major events during a general
election give nominees a chance to showcase themselves, their judgment and their
vision. One is the selection of a running mate. Another is the staging of the
conventions. A third is performance in the debates. Hillary Clinton did better
than Trump in all three, though Trump's team believes the debates did not fall
so decisively in her favor.

Then there are other factors in producing a successful candidacy. These include
resources, the operations and mechanics of campaigning, and the skill with which
candidates avoid mistakes and deal with the unexpected setbacks.

Clinton raised more money than Trump. She had a larger number of paid staffers
on the ground in the battleground states. She ran more television ads by far. He
created needless controversies throughout the general election, while her
problems were far fewer. Only in the final days did he seem surer of himself.

In other words, Trump came out the loser on virtually every aspect of how
campaigns are usually evaluated. Yet today he is staffing his administration and
Clinton is still absorbing the brutal shock of having lost a race she believed
was hers.

Trump owes his success in part to an environment that favored change over the
status quo. But his luck or genius goes beyond that. It has long been noted that
the conditions have existed for an independent candidate to run a serious
campaign for president. The level of dissatisfaction with Washington, the
anxiety over the economy and the generally sour mood about the future provided
the foundation for a campaign by someone from outside the system, who is tied to
neither political party and with a promise to shake things up.

What has stood in the way is that winning the presidency in a system that so
clearly favors the two major parties is something of a hopeless cause. That's a
big reason former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg decided not to run several
times when he seriously explored the idea.

Trump took the elements of an independent candidacy -- the lack of clear
ideology, the name recognition of a national celebrity and the personal fortune
needed to fund a presidential campaign -- and then did what no one seemed to
have thought of before. He staged a hostile takeover of an existing major party.
He had the best of both worlds, an outsider candidacy with crosscutting
ideological appeal and the platform of a major party to wage the general
election. By the time he had finished, he had taken down two political
dynasties: the Bush dynasty in the primaries and the Clinton dynasty in the
general election.

All through the campaign, one big question was whether 2016 would produce a new
electoral map. Mostly this was an outgrowth of the hope among Democrats that
changing demographics -- rising numbers of Hispanics in particular -- along with
a growing proportion of the population with college degrees would move some
states from red to purple and others from purple to blue.

The Clinton team saw Virginia and Colorado as two states that had moved toward
the Democrats during the Obama years and now were securely in the party's
column. They saw an opportunity to win in Arizona and believed that Georgia
would soon become a true battleground. Even bright red Texas looked more in
play.

The flip side of this "demography is destiny" concept was that, for a time, the
Republicans might have their best opportunity to change the map by focusing on a
handful of Northern industrial states, all of which have older, whiter
populations and lower percentages of college graduates.

But with the exception of Ohio, those states -- Pennsylvania, Michigan and
Wisconsin -- were all part of what the "Blue Wall," shorthand for states that as
of 2012 had voted Democratic in six consecutive presidential elections. Despite
the demographics, it seemed that wall would be too high for Trump to surmount,
even though his messages on trade and immigration were tailor-made for voters in
that region.

What happened was that this map of a new America came true only in part. Trump
converted the portion of the map that was suddenly hospitable to his message,
and Clinton failed to win the states that someday might lean more Democratic.
The northern map was riper for picking by Trump -- barely, given the tight
results in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania -- than the southern map for
Clinton.

For Republicans, the fact that Trump won the presidency while losing the popular
vote should remain a concern. It was the second time in five recent elections
that the GOP has got the White House with fewer votes, as Clinton probably will
emerge with a raw vote margin significantly higher than Al Gore in 2000.

An analysis by Mark Gersh of the National Committee for an Effective Congress
looked at the vote in 14 swing states vs. the rest of the country. Trump won the
popular vote in those 14 states and got 142 of his electoral votes from them. In
the other 36 states, he lost the popular vote by an even larger margin. He found
the votes where he needed them. She did not.

How did he do it? Take a look at Ohio. For years, the state has been a classic
bellwether and, in the three previous elections, ground zero in the battle for
the White House. This year it went to Trump by 8 points and shifted from its
historical norm by the biggest margin in more than half a century.

Similar patterns existed in the other Northern industrial states. Yet in the
three formerly blue states that Trump converted, Clinton might have won had she
not suffered erosion among African American voters -- one key portion of the
Obama coalition -- or prevented more white, college-educated voters from moving
away from her and returning home to the GOP, the group her team saw as a key
element of a new Clinton coalition.

Trump redrew the map just as he redrew the rules for running a campaign. For
those reasons alone, and despite all the controversy of his campaign and the
earlier personnel appointments, he ought not to be underestimated and/or seen
through conventional lenses.

-- Dan Balz is chief correspondent at The Washington Post, and served as
national editor, political editor and White House correspondent.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1013 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Rockwell painting fetches $6.5M

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 128 words


NEW YORK -- A painting by Norman Rockwell that depicts the undecided voter
sentiment during the 1944 presidential election -- much like the 2016 race --
has sold for $6.5 million at an auction of American art in New York.

"Which One? (Undecided; Man in Voting Booth)" shows a man standing in a voting
booth clutching a newspaper while pondering the choice between Democratic
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Republican Thomas E. Dewey.

It was sold at Sotheby's on Monday and just topped its high pre-sale estimate of
$6 million.

The painting came from the estate of horse racing executive Ogden Mills Phipps,
who acquired it in 1985.

Rockwell is best known for his covers of The Saturday Evening Post that capture
the spirit and popular culture of everyday American life.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1014 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Reports: Kanye West has been hospitalized

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 423 words


LOS ANGELES -- Kanye West has been hospitalized after abruptly canceling the
last 21 dates of his national tour, according to reports from several media
outlets.

Citing anonymous law enforcement sources and West representatives, the media
outlets reported that the hip-hop superstar was taken to Ronald Reagan UCLA
Medical Center in Los Angeles on Monday afternoon because of stress and
exhaustion, and he is spending the night there for his own safety.

Without confirming that the patient was West, Los Angeles police told The
Associated Press that officers were called to a house on Laurel Avenue near West
Hollywood for a disturbance at about 1:20 p.m. When they arrived it was clear
that nothing criminal was occurring and it was a medical situation instead.

Police told the AP that the patient was taken in an ambulance to the hospital
and placed on a psychiatric hold.

Representatives for West and his wife Kim Kardashian did not reply to several
messages left by the AP seeking confirmation or comment.

The hospitalization was first reported by NBC News.

Kardashian had been expected to make her first public appearance Monday night
since she was tied up and robbed at gunpoint last month in Paris. It was to come
at the Angel Ball, a charity event in New York honoring her late father, Robert
Kardashian.

But amid the reports about West, she did not show up.

Her mother, Kris Jenner, and sisters Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian were on hand.

When asked how the couple was doing, Jenner simply smiled and said, "They're
good."

West had just pulled the plug on his Saint Pablo Tour after days of erratic and
angry behavior that made an even hotter topic than usual on social media.

On Friday, during a concert in San Jose, West said he didn't vote in the
presidential election but would have cast a ballot for Donald Trump.


, praising the president-elect's "method of communication" as "very futuristic."

On Saturday in Sacramento he ended his show after just four songs but not before
a 10-minute tirade about Beyonce, Jay Z, Hillary Clinton, Mark Zuckerberg, the
radio and MTV.

Over the weekend, West also flooded his Instagram account with nearly 100
fashion photos, many snaps of photos that were out of focus and poorly cropped.

Sunday's show in the Los Angeles area was canceled then West decided to scrap
the entire tour.

Concert promoter Live Nation said tickets would be fully refunded. The tour was
to have made stops through Dec. 31 in Dallas, Denver, Atlanta, Philadelphia,
Detroit, Boston, New York City and Washington, D.C., among others.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1015 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Trump's charity admits to violating IRS regulations

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 804 words


WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald Trump's charity has admitted that it
violated IRS regulations barring it from using its money or assets to benefit
Trump, his family, his companies or substantial contributors to the foundation.

The admissions by the Donald J. Trump Foundation were made in a 2015 tax filing
made public after a presidential election in which it was revealed that Trump
has used the charity to settle lawsuits, make a $25,000 political contribution
and purchase items such as a painting of himself that was displayed at one of
his properties.

The filing's release, first reported by The Washington Post, comes as the New
York attorney general's office investigates whether Trump personally benefited
from the foundation's spending.

The filing also shows Trump's foundation accepted money from a Ukrainian
businessman who also gave money to one of Trump's favored targets on the
campaign trail: The Clinton Foundation. The charity also donated to a
conservative group that backed Trump during his candidacy.

The 2015 tax filing was posted on the nonprofit monitoring website GuideStar on
Nov. 18 by someone using an email address from the foundation's law firm,
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, said GuideStar spokeswoman Jackie Enterline Fekeci.

In the tax filing, the foundation acknowledged that it used money or assets in
violation of the regulations not only during 2015, but in prior years. But the
tax filing doesn't provide details on the violations.

Questions about the violations sent via email to Trump's transition team weren't
immediately answered Tuesday.

Marcus S. Owens, a partner at the Washington law firm Loeb & Loeb and a former
director of the IRS exempt organizations division, said the lack of detail in
the tax filing makes it difficult to determine the extent of the charity's
violations.

"There's no way to tell for sure whether the self-dealing is small and trivial
or large and a pattern of ongoing deliberate misuse of the charity's assets,"
Owens said.

Generally, he said, self-dealing violations require the violator to pay an
excise tax equal to 10 percent of the amount involved in the transactions. The
violator also would have to repay the foundation for the full amount involved.
Owens also noted that self-dealing is a violation of New York state law, where
the charity is registered.

New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat, launched an
investigation into the charity after reporting by the Post drew attention to
some of the foundation's purchases, three of which are listed in the latest
filing: two portraits of Trump and a football helmet autographed by former NFL
quarterback Tim Tebow.

As the Post reported previously, Trump bid $12,000 for the football helmet, and
his wife, Melania, bid $20,000 for one of the portraits. The other portrait,
which Trump bid $10,000 for, has been hanging on a wall at his golf course in
Doral, Florida, according to the Post.

Despite the high-dollar price tags, the foundation's latest tax filing now
values them at a combined $1,675. The tax filing does not specify if any of the
items are related to the self-dealing violations.

The foundation has previously said it amended its tax filings after it gave an
improper $25,000 check to a political committee supporting Florida Attorney
General Pam Bondi in 2013.

Charities are barred from engaging in political activities, and the
president-elect's staff says the check he signed was mistakenly issued following
a series of clerical errors. Earlier this year, the Trump Foundation paid a
$2,500 fine to the IRS over the check.

The latest tax filing shows two Trump entities gave to his foundation, a break
from recent years when the foundation's donations came mostly from other donors.

The Trump Corporation gave about $566,000 to the foundation, and Trump
Productions LLC, the company which produced "The Apprentice" and "Celebrity
Apprentice," gave $50,000 in 2015.

Another large contributor was the foundation of Victor Pinchuk, a Ukrainian
billionaire who has advocated for closer relations between the European Union
and Ukraine. The Victor Pinchuk Foundation gave $150,000 to the Trump Foundation
in 2015. Pinchuk's foundation has also given between $10 million and $25 million
to the Clinton Foundation.

The Trump Foundation's tax filing shows that it also gave at least $10,000 to
Project Veritas, a Trump-backing nonprofit group led by conservative activist
James O'Keefe.

During the presidential campaign, O'Keefe's employees posed as would-be
Democratic donors and volunteers during a months-long ruse that captured one
Democratic operative seeming to boast about his connections to Hillary Clinton's
campaign and claiming he hired people to provoke Trump rally-goers.

The undercover sting prompted the Democratic Party and liberal groups to cut
ties with at least two operatives.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1016 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Haley for UN, DeVos for Ed;
Ben Carson says word 'forthcoming' on role

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 1125 words


PALM BEACH, Fla. -- Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald
Trump selected two Republican women on Wednesday who had unflattering things to
say about him during the presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley
to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate
Betsy DeVos to lead the Department of Education.

Gov. Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet Trump praised her as "a
proven dealmaker." DeVos, like Trump, is new to government but has spent decades
working to change America's system of public education.

DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts
as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is
the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minority
selection after a string of announcements of white men.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role, which would make him the first black choice -- presumably as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development -- but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it
over the Thanksgiving holiday.

SEE trump,  A11

"I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our
inner cities great for everyone," Carson wrote on his Facebook page.

Trump is also expected to select billionaire investor Wilbur Ross Jr. to lead
the Commerce Department, a senior Trump adviser said Wednesday, speaking only on
condition of anonymity because the adviser was not authorized to disclose
internal deliberations. The 78-year-old Ross, who is white, is chairman and
chief strategy officer of private-equity firm W.L. Ross & Co., which has
specialized in buying failing companies.

Wednesday's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the "alt-right,"
a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election.

He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with
family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving. He's
spending the holiday there after a week of interviews of potential appointees in
New York, punctuated by announcements of members of his national security team.

Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections was evident through much
of this year's campaign.

"The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley!" Trump wrote in
March. Haley denounced several of his campaign comments and urged voters to
"reject the siren call of the angriest voices."

DeVos, from Michigan, told The Associated Press in July, "A lot of the things he
has said are very off-putting and concerning."

On Wednesday, Trump said of his UN selection: "Gov. Haley has a proven track
record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation
to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our
country."

She said she loved her South Carolina post but "when the president believes you
have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our
nation's standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed."

While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and
right.

The president of the National Education Association, Lily Eskelsen Garcia, said
in a statement that for years DeVos "has lobbied for failed schemes, like
vouchers -- which take away funding and local control from our public schools --
to fund private schools at taxpayers' expense."

And Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, tweeted,
"Trump has chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the
creation of the Dept of Education."

At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor,
who has spent millions of dollars -- along with her husband -- to promote
candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the
Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign.

Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that
climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign
vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.

DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a "Q&A" statement that said directly
about Common Core: "I am not a supporter -- period."

"I do support high standards," she said. But along the way Common Core "got
turned into a federal boondoggle."

Just two weeks ago, Trump shocked the political world -- including many in his
own party -- by winning the presidential contest. The billionaire New Yorker has
yet to take any formal steps to separate from his international business empire
as experts in both parties warn of potential conflicts of interest.

Trump will be sworn into office in less than 60 days. Beyond his Cabinet, he
must fill hundreds of high-level administration posts.

Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of
state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and
Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
formerly an outspoken Trump critic.

After secretary of state, the UN ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic
position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international
stage.

As for DeVos, her family has been active in Republican politics for decades,
especially as donors. Her husband, Dick, is an heir to the Amway fortune and a
former president of the company.

The American Federation for Children Action Fund, which DeVos chairs, and its
state-affiliated PACs invested in 121 races in 12 states in the general
election, spending spent $210,000 to support "pro-school choice" candidates in
Oklahoma alone.

"Under her leadership we will reform the U.S. education system and break the
bureaucracy that is holding our children back so that we can deliver world-class
education and school choice to all families," Trump said.

DeVos said in her own statement, "The status quo in education is not
acceptable."


From Page A1

In this Nov. 15, 2016, file photo, South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley speaks in
Orlando, Fla. President-elect Donald Trump says he intends to nominate Haley to
be the next U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. AP Photo/John Raoux, File

In this Nov. 19, 2016, file photo, President-elect Donald Trump and Betsy DeVos
pose for photographs at Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in
Bedminster, N.J. Trump has chosen charter school advocate DeVos as Education
Secretary in his administration. AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster, File

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role in a Trump administration, which would make him the first black choice.
File Photo/Christian Murdock/The Gazette via AP

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1017 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                              Worcester TG Edition

James Taylor: Improve attitude with gratitude

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 150 words


WASHINGTON, Mass. -- James Taylor has a Thanksgiving message for his fans:
Gratitude improves your attitude.

The singer says in an email that giving thanks is the key to overcoming setbacks
and dealing with reversals of fortune.

He writes: "To whom we give it is a big question but just go ahead on and do it.
Gratitude is the way to an improved attitude, dude."

Taylor then gets a little spacey in Thursday's message, speculating about the
possibility that other distant worlds in the cosmos might support life.

The 68-year-old musician, who lives in the Berkshires of western Massachusetts,
ends by saying: "To have been born in human form and consciousness aboard this
unbelievably beneficent planet is an incredible stroke of luck. Dig it."

James Taylor performs this month during a campaign event for Democratic
presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in Manchester, N.H. File Photo/The
Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1018 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                         Worcester Clinton Item Edition

Wondering what's next

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 602 words


Now that the battle is over, what's next? Both presidential candidates gave it
their all. The presidential contest was contentious, with both candidates saying
things that were hurtful. Both candidates accused one another of all kinds of
things that, in many cases, were not true. In the end, Donald Trump emerged
victorious.

Unlike previous presidential contests, there have been many demonstrations
against the results of this election. I wonder how many demonstrations might
have occurred had the results of this contest been different? No matter, the die
is cast and the United states will have a new president in January, regardless
of how anyone feels.

Unlike previous presidential contests, this one contained many threats on the
part of the victorious candidate, as well as a number of promises - which may or
may not be kept. Some of the threats were made in the "heat of battle" and
cannot or will not be carried out and some of the promises made cannot or will
not be carried out as well. The bottom line is that the president of the United
States can and cannot do things without the approval of Congress. The advantage
the president-elect has is that he is a Republican and the Congress is
controlled by the Republicans in both the House of Representatives and in the
Senate.

Although this can be a tremendous advantage, it will dissipate if he does not
use his power judicially and his party acts against him. During his presidential
campaign, Trump made a number of political enemies on both sides of the aisle,
and some of them may come back to haunt him. On the other hand, President-Elect
Trump had some good ideas in the minds of many people, as evidenced by his
election victory via the Electoral College, if not the popular vote. Many of the
people who voted for him come from the south and mid-west and were moved by his
promise to "Make America Great Again" by bringing back industry to the United
States as well as other promises aimed toward raising the standards of living
for many U.S. citizens. The United States faces many other problems. Some
promises made by Trump are reasonable and can be achieved, while others are not
possible without the approval of Congress.

One of the negative outcomes of this election is the number of demonstrations
taking place throughout the United States. These demonstrations against the
outcome of the presidential race only emphasize the lack of what the United
States is all about, which is the concept that the majority rules and the
minority accepts it in good grace. Unfortunately, when using this argument, the
United States elects its

SEE mitchell,  7

president, not by popular vote, but by the electoral vote method. Thus, a
presidential candidate can win the popular vote, but fail to get the necessary
270 electoral votes and, therefore, lose the election.

This method of electing the president was crafted by our founding fathers and
although I, personally, favor the popular vote method, it wouldn't cross my mind
to demonstrate against the existing method. If people do not agree with the
elections results and the method used to achieve it, they should work to change
it and not act like children and demonstrate against a result that cannot be
changed this time around.

Articles dealing with the results of this election can go on forever, but it is
sufficient to say again that "the die is cast" and whether we agree or disagree,
the people of the United States must unite and work together for the benefit of
everyone. Remember, the world is watching.

-- Frank Mitchell is a Lancaster resident and former superintendent of schools.

From Page 6

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1019 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Recounts on horizon;
Trump adds new administration picks; more meetings set for Monday

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 942 words


MADISON, Wis -- President-elect Donald Trump pressed forward Friday with two
more administration picks, as failed Green Party candidate Jill Stein took new
steps to force recounts across key Midwestern battlegrounds that could
complicate Trump's push for national unity.

Stein, who earned little more than 1 percent of the national vote, formally
requested a Wisconsin recount Friday afternoon, vowing to do the same in the
coming days in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Wisconsin officials confirmed Friday
evening they would move forward with the first presidential recount in state
history. There is no evidence of election tampering in the states where Trump
scored razor-thin victories, but Green Party spokesman George Martin insisted
"the American public needs to have it investigated to make sure our votes
count."

"We're doing this to ensure the integrity of our system," he said.

Trump's team ignored

SEE recounts,  A10

questions about the looming recounts. Set to assume the presidency in 55 days,
he was focused instead on the daunting task of building an administration from
scratch.

Gathered with family at his Mar-a-Lago Palm Beach estate for the holiday
weekend, the incoming president made two senior-level staff appointments and
scheduled meetings with several more prospective administration officials.

He tapped Fox News analyst Kathleen Troia "KT" McFarland to serve as deputy
national security adviser and campaign attorney Donald McGahn as White House
counsel. In a statement, Trump cited McFarland's "tremendous experience and
innate talent" and said McGhan "has a brilliant legal mind, excellent character
and a deep understanding of constitutional law."

Having faced criticism about the inexperience of his initial picks, Trump finds
in McFarland someone who previously worked under three presidents, although none
since Ronald Reagan. McGhan, a veteran Republican election lawyer, served as
Trump's attorney during the campaign.

Neither position requires Senate confirmation.

Trump transition spokesman Sean Spicer said the president-elect scheduled Monday
meetings with eight more prospective administration hires, a group that includes
several business leaders, Pennsylvania Rep. Lou Barletta, and David Clarke, the
Wisconsin sheriff who is an aggressive opponent of the Black Lives Matter
movement.

Facing external pressure from Stein, there were also signs of internal discord
within the president-elect's small inner circle as Trump weighed his choices for
secretary of state.

The options for the nation's chief diplomat include former New York City Mayor
Rudy Giuliani, who lacks foreign policy experience but was intensely loyal to
Trump, and 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who aggressively
opposed Trump's candidacy but is largely regarded as more qualified.

Trump spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway took the unusual step of shining light on the
controversy over the Thanksgiving holiday, tweeting that she had been "receiving
a deluge of social media & private concerns re: Romney Some Trump loyalists warn
against Romney as sec of state."

Meanwhile, Stein announced on her website she has raised enough money to fund
recounts in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and was pursuing additional funding to do
the same in Michigan.

Trump's Nov. 8 victory was unexpected and historic, by some measures.

Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2
million votes. Trump scored narrow victories in key battleground states,
however, giving him the necessary 270 electoral votes to assume the presidency.

He won in Pennsylvania. He won in Wisconsin, breaking a Democratic winning
streak dating back 32 years. He holds a slim lead in Michigan, where a
Republican presidential candidate hadn't won since 1988; The Associated Press
still hasn't officially called that race.

Wisconsin, where Trump leads by little more than 22,000 votes, has never before
conducted a presidential recount. It will this year, state administrator Michael
Haas announced Friday, citing recount requests by Stein and independent
candidate Rocky De La Fuente.

"The Commission is preparing to move forward with a statewide recount of votes
for President of the United States, as requested by these candidates," Haas
said, noting that the recount is expected to be completed by the Dec. 13 federal
deadline.

In Michigan, Trump's 10,704-vote lead is expected to be certified by the state
elections board Monday. The deadline to ask for a recount is Wednesday.

A statewide recount would cost Stein roughly $790,000, said Fred Woodhams, a
spokesman for the Michigan secretary of state. An opposing candidate would have
seven days to file objections to the recount petition, after which the board
would schedule a public hearing and later issue a ruling on the objections.

Trump's transition team indicated he was focused on the challenges of governing.

Since arriving at his Palm Beach estate Wednesday, they said, the
president-elect has spoken to the prime ministers of Greece, Hungary and Sweden,
along with the presidents of Panama and Slovenia.

He is expected to return to his New York City home on Sunday.


From Page A1

Pedestrians stop to make photos of Trump Tower where President-elect Donald
Trump has held meetings with potential members of his administration. The
Associated Press

Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein has taken steps to force recounts
across key Midwestern battleground states. File Photo/The Associated Press

Kathleen "KT" McFarland is seen at her home in New York. President-elect Donald
Trump has tapped Fox News analyst McFarland to serve as deputy national security
adviser. File Photo/The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1020 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Disturbing sign in voting patterns;
Election shows 'polarized' and concentrated economy

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 722 words


In the modern era of presidential politics, no candidate has ever won the
popular vote by more than Hillary Clinton did this year, yet still managed to
lose the electoral college. In that sense, 2016 was a historic split: Donald
Trump won the presidency by as many as 74 electoral votes (depending on how
Michigan ends up) while losing the nationwide vote to Clinton by 2 million votes
and counting.

But there's another divide exposed by the election, which researchers at the
Brookings Institution discovered as they sifted the election returns. It has no
bearing on the election outcome, but it tells us something important about the
state of the country and the future of its politics.

The divide is economic, and it is massive. According to the Brookings analysis,
the fewer-than-500 counties that Clinton won nationwide combined to generate 64
percent of U.S. economic activity in 2015. The more-than-2,600 counties that
Trump won combined to generate 36

SEE patterns,  A10

percent of the country's economic activity last year.

Clinton, in other words, carried nearly two-thirds of the American economy.

With the exceptions of the Phoenix and Fort Worth areas, and a big chunk of Long
Island, Clinton won every large-size economic county in the country.

This appears to be unprecedented, in the era of modern economic statistics, for
a losing presidential candidate. The last candidate to win the popular vote but
lose the electoral college, Democrat Al Gore in 2000, won counties that
generated about 54 percent of the country's gross domestic product, the
Brookings researchers calculated. That's true even though Gore won more than 100
more counties in 2000 than Clinton did in 2016.

Between those elections, U.S. economic activity has grown increasingly
concentrated in large, "superstar" metropolitan areas such as Silicon Valley and
New York.

But it's not the case that the counties Clinton won have grown richer at the
expense of the rest of the country - they represent about the same share of the
economy today as they did in 2000. Instead, it appears that, compared with Gore,
Clinton was much more successful in winning over the most successful counties in
a geographically unbalanced economy.

The Brookings analysis found that counties with higher GDP per capita were more
likely to vote for Clinton over Trump, as were counties with higher population
densities. Counties with higher shares of manufacturing employment were more
likely to vote for Trump.

"This is a picture of a very polarized and increasingly concentrated economy,"
said Mark Muro, the policy director at the Brookings metro program, "with the
Democratic base aligning more to that more concentrated modern economy, but a
lot of votes and anger to be had in the rest of the country."

As Muro notes, many state legislatures are divided on similar grounds, between
higher-output metro areas and lower- output rural ones. Often, that divide
pushes governors of those states, even the ones who hail from cities, to support
economic development in lower-output areas. Such a dynamic could be an upside
under a president who won votes representing only a third of the country's
economy: To respond to his voters, Trump could promote policies to help those
areas adapt more rapidly to the changing economy.

There's a downside, though, for a candidate such as Trump, whose economic appeal
was rooted in a promise to restore coal, manufacturing and other jobs lost in
the shifts of the past several decades.

That task will be difficult, Muro has written, in part because manufacturers
have grown substantially more productive in recent years, meaning they probably
won't be adding millions of workers even if Trump pursues major changes in trade
policy that result in more goods being made in the United States.

"The prescription isn't that helpful," Muro said. "We're going to have a lot of
questions about how to translate the political geography into actually helpful
policy."

From Page A1

Police officers help to install concrete barriers around Trump Tower, the home
of President-elect Donald Trump, in New York. The Associated Press

Weeds grow around an old building and picket fence in Rocky Ford, Colo. Otero
County is a rural and increasingly impoverished part of southern Colorado and
two different economic worlds are writ large in the state. The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1021 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Worcester TG Edition

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 785 words


Trump to tap Price for health secretary

President-elect Donald Trump has selected Georgia Rep. Tom Price to lead the
Department of Health and Human Services.

That's according to a person familiar with the decision, which is expected to be
announced Tuesday morning.

Price has been a leading critic of President Barack Obama's signature health
care law. Trump has vowed to repeal the measure, though he has been unclear
about exactly what he hopes to replace it with.

The person familiar with the decision insisted on anonymity because the person
was not authorized to discuss the nomination publicly ahead of Tuesday's
announcement.

Trump adviser Newt Gingrich has tweeted his approval, calling Price "the right
leader to help Congress replace Obamacare."

US investigating leak related to Petraeus case

WASHINGTON -- The Defense Department is conducting a new leaks investigation
related to the sex scandal that led to the resignation of former CIA Director
David Petraeus, The Associated Press confirmed Monday, the same day Petraeus was
meeting with President-elect Donald Trump in New York.

Petraeus, who could be in line for a Cabinet nomination, arrived at Trump Tower
in early afternoon and met with Trump for about one hour. Trump afterward
tweeted that he "was very impressed."

Petraeus said Trump "basically walked us around the world, showed a great grasp
of a variety of the challenges that are out there and some of the opportunities
as well. Very good conversation and we'll see where it goes from here. We'll see
where it goes from here."

A U.S. official told the AP that investigators were trying to determine who
leaked personal information about Paula Broadwell, the woman whose affair with
Petraeus led to criminal charges against him and his resignation. The
information concerned the status of her security clearance, said the official,
who was not authorized to discuss an ongoing investigation by name and spoke on
condition of anonymity.

Disclosure of the Broadwell information without official permission would have
been a violation of federal criminal law.


Disputes, falsehoods hit Trump transition

NEW YORK -- The drama, disputes and falsehoods that permeated Donald Trump's
presidential campaign are now roiling his transition to the White House, forcing
aides to defend his baseless assertions of illegal voting and sending internal
fights spilling into public.

On Monday, a recount effort, led by Green Party candidate Jill Stein and joined
by Hillary Clinton's campaign also marched on in three states, based partly on
the Stein campaign's unsubstantiated assertion that cyberhacking could have
interfered with electronic voting machines. Wisconsin officials approved plans
to begin a recount as early as Thursday. Stein also asked for a recount in
Pennsylvania and was expected to do the same in Michigan, where officials
certified Trump's victory Monday.

Trump has angrily denounced the recounts and now claims without evidence that
he, not Clinton, would have won the popular vote if it hadn't been for "millions
of people who voted illegally." On Twitter, he singled out Virginia, California
and New Hampshire.

There has been no indication of widespread election tampering or voter fraud in
those states or any others, and Trump aides struggled Monday to back up their
boss' claim.

Spokesman Jason Miller said illegal voting was "an issue of concern." But the
only evidence he raised was a 2014 news report and a study on voting
irregularities conducted before the 2016 election.


-- The Associated Press

Michigan vote certified for Trump but recount requests loom

WASHINGTON -- Nearly three weeks after Election Day, Michigan officials
certified Monday that Donald Trump won the state by 10,704 votes out of nearly
4.8 million to claim all of its 16 electoral votes. There's more wrangling to
come, though, on the final vote count for this oh-so-contentious campaign.

Jill Stein's Green Party served notice that it would petition for a Michigan
recount even as her party pushed forward with recount efforts in Wisconsin and
Pennsylvania, where Trump won by somewhat wider but still small margins.

Should the results for Trump hold in all three states, as expected, the
president-elect would have 306 electoral votes to 232 for Democrat Hillary
Clinton. It takes 270 to be elected president.

Only if the results were overturned in all three states would Clinton have a
claim on the presidency, and that is widely considered to be out of the
question.

If it's any consolation for Clinton -- and it's probably mighty little -- she's
winning the national popular vote. With some votes still being counted, she is
ahead by more than 2 million, about 1.5 percent of the total counted so far.


-- The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1022 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Worcester TG Edition

'Constructive disagreement'

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT LIFE; 6

LENGTH: 928 words


Van Jones starred in a few memorable exchanges with Donald Trump supporters on
CNN during the presidential campaign, but one remark by the Democratic
strategist stands above the rest.

"This was a rebellion against the elites. True," Jones said of Trump's victory
on election night. "It was a complete reinvention of politics and polls. It's
true. But it was also something else. ... We've talked about everything but race
tonight. We've talked about income. We've talked about class. We've talked about
region. We haven't talked about race. This was a white-lash. This was a
white-lash against a changing country. It was a white-lash against a black
president, in part."

Jones spoke with The Washington Post about how the comment has made him a target
in the conservative media, revealed the one question he forgot to ask Trump
booster Jeffrey Lord, and talked about his hope for "more constructive
disagreement." If you're wondering what constructive disagreement looks like,
check out Jones's web series, "The Messy Truth," in which he visits voters in
their homes. Jones will host a live special by the same name on CNN Dec. 6.

Q: I have observed in past two weeks that you have been cast as a boogeyman by
the likes of Breitbart, particularly because of your "white-lash" comment on
election night. I'm curious whether that's something you pay attention to or
whether it's something you choose to block out.

A: I take everybody's point of view very seriously, and I think that shows in my
commentary on air. I don't dismiss anybody's point of view. I also know that
there's a branch of our media that has to be mad at somebody, so I worry less
about that than where the overall conversation is going in the country. My
concern is that we have two political parties that have pretty significant blind
spots. The liberals seem to be blind to the very distasteful strain of elitism
that seems to have found a home in our party, and the conservatives have a blind
spot for a very nasty strain of bigotry that has found a home in their party.
That is not to say that every Democrat is an elitist or that every Republican is
a bigot; it is to say that both parties have some real work to do to have
parties that respect all Americans.

Q: Is the "white-lash" term something you thought up in advance or did it just
come to you in the moment?

A: I'd had a conversation a week prior about what was going on across Europe,
and the term came up in that conversation. This whole thing is very much tied to
what's going on throughout the West: white working classes reacting against
globalization and immigration across the West. And I say white working class
because African-American, Latino and Asian workers are not joining in large
numbers. Why do you keep playing the race card? Well, because you have to be
accurate. The black working class embraced Hillary Clinton. The Afro-Caribbean
populations in the U.K. were against Brexit. So there is a race and class
characteristic that you have to talk about. Any term, if it's going to cut
through the clutter, has a chance to be misinterpreted, but it's a conversation
we have to have.

Q: Take us behind some of your on-screen debates with the pro-Trump crowd. You
and Jeffrey Lord had some really dynamic exchanges during the campaign. You and
Mary Matalin just recently. Is all of that spontaneous and authentic in the
moment, or do you talk about your points beforehand and know you're going to go
at it?

A: No, I think you can tell all that stuff is unplanned. The first one with me
and Jeff, we were still getting to know each other on the air, and we were both
caught off guard because our realities are so totally different. It was like a
matter/anti-matter explosion whenever we would stumble into the topic of race.
There was never a time when we were like, "OK, now Jeff and Van are going to go
talk about race." What would happen is we'd be talking about something else, and
one or the other would mention something from our perspective, and that would
trigger a discussion of race. And I'd find out that from his perspective, the
Klan is a liberal organization, which I thought was bizarre. My only regret is I
never got a chance to ask Jeffrey on air, if the Klan is a liberal organization,
then why were they endorsing Trump? I had that in my back pocket that if he ever
raises the Klan again, I'm going to ask him. But then I'd get so mad, I'd forget
to ask.

Q: I was checking out some of the previews of interactions you had with Trump
voters for your "Messy Truth" special next month, and I'm wondering how hopeful
you are about being able to have productive conversations with people who don't
see the world the way you do.

A: I think I'm one of the few national Democrats who has a very long track
record of working with the right. ... I worked very hard to develop and maintain
friendships with all the conservatives and Trump supporters who came on our air
and probably talked more to them during the campaign and after than I did to
most national Democrats. I grew up in the rural South, in a red state, all
public schools and church on Sunday, so I really understand the frustration a
lot of conservatives have with the way that the coastal elite sees them. So I
know that there's a lot of room for more constructive disagreement. I'm not
aiming for agreement. In a dictatorship, everybody has to agree. In a democracy,
nobody has to agree. I'm not aiming for agreement; I'm aiming for a more
constructive disagreement, and I have high hopes for that.

Van Jones is a political commentator for CNN Promotional Photo

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1023 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Romney singing for supper for good reason

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 827 words



HIGHLIGHT: williamson thursday column


Some say Mitt Romney has abandoned his pride by his willingness to accept a
Cabinet post under a president he repeatedly and quite rightly reviled as a con
man and a fraud.

For Romney, though, his readiness to serve under Donald Trump is all about pride
- in his country.

It may sound hokey in this self-involved Tumultuous Time of Trump, but those who
know our former governor say he has long felt a tremendous sense of duty to his
country, and we desperately need such mature fealty after electing a man-child
to lead the free world.

I hope Trump appoints Romney as secretary of state. He'd be lucky to have him.
In the past, I would have predicted there's no way the man dubbed
Trumplethinskin could look past Romney's scathing assessment of his character,
which, after saving the 2002 Olympics, was one of Mitt's finest public moments.
But I have underestimated Trump in the past, and maybe he realizes or can be
convinced that he's so far out of his depth that he needs a smart, steady leader
at the helm of the state department. At the least, it would give Trump more time
to tweet and misinform the nation he purports to lead.

But Mitt has been taking it on his Dudley Do-Right chin since indicating he'd
put his considerable differences with Trump aside. A lot of people on social
media contend he's selling his soul, that he's spineless and desperate for
power. In conservative circles, Newt Gingrich and Mike Huckabee are critical of
the prospect of Romney's appointment. Most famously, Trump aide Kellyanne
Conway, who should know a bit about soul selling, has publicly piled on Romney
and claimed his appointment would be a betrayal to the GOP.

"I'm all for party unity, but I'm not sure we have to pay for that with the
secretary of state position," Conway told CNN's Dana Bash on "State of the
Union" on Sunday. "I'm hearing from people who say, 'Hey, my parents died
penniless but I gave $216 to Donald Trump's campaign and I would feel betrayed
(if Romney is nominated).'"

Conway's crusade has raised eyebrows. Is she Trump's surrogate? Is she going
rogue? Has she never forgiven Romney for strapping his dog to the roof of his
car? Remember the good old days, when that was the worst thing a presidential
candidate could do?

Meanwhile, let's give Romney a break and consider he would serve for the best of
reasons under a man he doesn't respect and likely even loathes. That he'd hold
his patrician nose because he believes he could help. Rather than call him a
pansy, I'd call that patriotic.

SEE williamson,  B2

Granted, Romney really gave it to Trump more than once. But Trump has the
opportunity now to show he can overlook a personal grudge for the health of the
country. After all, Trump could easily have offered grudge-holding classes at
his bogus former university; appointing Romney could create the perception,
badly needed, that our president-elect is magnanimous. He's not, of course, but
perception still matters.

Many of my Facebook friends are skeptical that Romney is a serious candidate,
and suspect that his posh dinner with Trump of frog legs and "young" garlic soup
- as opposed to aging garlic soup? - was simply more theater designed to
humiliate Romney in the end.

"It's the classic 'Lucy with the football' move," wrote Jewel Bradstreet
Heldman. "Watch out, Charlie Brown!"

Speaking of cartoon characters, one of Romney's rivals for the job is Trump
loyalist Rudy Giuliani, who has morphed before America's eyes from the competent
mayor of New York City to a man in dire need of horse-tranquilizer-size doses of
Prozac. The two candidates couldn't be more different. One is dignified; the
other seems almost demented. Where Romney is a statesman, Giuliani is a
screwball. Consider his odious remarks about President Barack Obama last year:
"I do not believe that the president loves America. He doesn't love you. And he
doesn't love me. He wasn't brought up the way you were brought up and I was
brought up through love of this country."

To saddle Americans with a man so unhinged would be unconscionable. Seriously -
haven't we suffered enough? How many right-wing unhinged public officials are we
expected to tolerate in a single election cycle?

Tuesday night, after his dinner with Trump, Romney praised the president-elect
and said he was "impressed" with his acceptance speech and transition moves.

"All of those things combined gives me increasing hope that President-elect
Trump is the very man who can lead us to that better future," Romney said.

OK, so maybe he was laying it on a bit thick. Romney's a politician and thus not
immune to offering false praise if it suits his purpose, which in the real world
is known as "lying to get one's way."

But if anyone can tame Trump - and that's a big if - it may be Mitt Romney. He'd
also instill some civility and gravitas to a country in desperate need of both.
If he had to sing for his supper and play an unfamiliar role, we may have
cringed but we hope he gets the part.

From Page B1

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1024 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                              Worcester TG Edition

The Electoral College under fire

SECTION: OPINION; 9

LENGTH: 869 words


'We've got to get rid of that Electoral College!" a friend of mine fumed the
other day. She was indignant that Donald Trump has been elected president of the
United States even though Hillary Clinton got two million more votes than he
did.

As a long time defender of the Electoral College, I am in a quandary. Although I
believe it has served the nation well for nearly 230 years, I can see that it
will lose public support if it contravenes the popular vote too blatantly - as
it did in 2000 and 2016.

Two fundamental issues clash here - states rights versus one-man, one-vote.

The Electoral College is one of the compromises worked out between the big
states and the small states at the Constitutional Convention in 1787. It
guarantees that even the smallest states will not be forgotten in a presidential
election. That was why we saw so much energetic campaigning in states like New
Hampshire and Utah. In a razor-thin race, which we almost had, even three
electoral votes might be crucial.

In the beginning, there was no such thing as a direct popular vote in a
presidential election. The first five presidents were chosen by electors picked
by the legislatures of the states,

Not until 1824 were the popular votes even counted. The election that year saw
Andrew Jackson topping the field with John Quincy Adams and Henry Clay close
behind. But none of the three won the necessary majority of electoral votes,
which sent the issue into the House of Representatives. Jackson thought that his
popular vote showing would give him the presidency, but the Adams and Clay
backers joined forces and gave the electoral majority to Adams. A furious
Jackson bided his time and whipped Adams in the 1828 election.

The quadrennial battles between the Democrats and the Whigs followed the usual
pattern for the next three decades. Then, in 1860, Abraham Lincoln's new
Republican party took the White House - the only third party in American history
to achieve that goal.

In 1876 came a tawdry development - the exploitation of the Electoral College
for political ends. During an election riddled with fraud but clearly being won
by Democrat Samuel Tilden, the Republicans in Washington worked out a deal with
the southern Democrats; in exchange for their votes in the Electoral College.
Republican Rutherford B. Hayes agreed to withdraw federal troops from the
southern states. They had been there since the end of the Civil War, overseeing
the transition from slavery.

Things went along pretty much routinely until 1888, when Republican Benjamin
Harrison beat President Grover Cleveland, Democrat, in the Electoral College
while losing the popular vote by more than 100,000. But the discrepancy seems
not to have stimulated much controversy. Four years later, in 1892, Cleveland
beat Harrison and returned to the White House - the only president to serve two
non-consecutive terms.

In 1912 came a dramatic demonstration of the difficulty faced by a third party
movement under our electoral system. The third party in that case was Theodore
Roosevelt's Progressive or "Bull Moose" Party. Roosevelt, who had been president
from 1902 to 1909, was trying to regain the White House from President William
Howard Taft, once TR's close friend and colleague but later his bitter rival.
Roosevelt, still widely popular, topped Taft in both electoral and popular votes
but, by splitting the Republican vote, handed the election to Democrat Woodrow
Wilson.

In 1960 came another close election. Although John F. Kennedy is usually listed
as having won the popular vote, the facts are not clear. The Democrat total
includes those votes cast in Alabama for Strom Thurmond. Kennedy's name wasn't
even on the ballot in Alabama. No one knows who won the popular vote in 1960 but
it didn't matter. Kennedy won the electoral vote and the presidency

The 21st Century cast a glaring light on the Electoral College. In the election
of 2000, George W. Bush won the electoral vote and the presidency even though Al
Gore got a half million more votes. And this year, to the shock of many
Democrats, Donald Trump has won the presidency even though Hillary Clinton
garnered two million more votes than he did.

It seems likely that an effort will be mounted to "reform" the Electoral
College, but switching to a system of popular votes isn't as easy as it sounds.

One fear is that it would destroy the two-party system, deemed by some analysts
essential to the challenge of governing a huge, fractious nation composed of 50
separate states. A multi-party system might result in the winner getting only 30
percent or less of the vote - not enough to provide the mandate that a president
needs. That sort of mandate requires at least 40 percent of the popular vote,
according to many theorists. In 1860 in a four way field, Abraham Lincoln got
about 40 percent of the vote, and that has become a sort of benchmark

Various proposals to change the Electoral College are in the offing. Whether any
will pass constitutional muster remains to be seen.

Note: Next week's column will appear a day earlier, on Wednesday, Dec. 7, the
75th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor, instead of Thursday.

-- Albert B. Southwick's columns appear regularly in the Telegram & Gazette.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1025 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                              Worcester TG Edition

State treasurer says college savings plans important;
Goldberg promotes new SeedMA initiative at Clark roundtable

BYLINE: Telegram & Gazette Staff

SECTION: NEWS; 3

LENGTH: 545 words



HIGHLIGHT: Clark University hosts panel discussion on college costs, financial
literacy.


WORCESTER -- With last month's national election signaling a likely move away
from the concept of free higher education, state Treasurer Deborah Goldberg on
Thursday said college savings programs like her office's SeedMA initiative are
now "more important than ever."

Ms. Goldberg made her comments at a roundtable discussion on college costs and
financial literacy at Clark University, where she answered questions from about
a dozen attendees for about an hour. One of the participants, a student at
Clark, asked the treasurer what she thought about free college, an idea that
gained traction in the past year thanks to Democratic leaders like President
Barack Obama and presidential candidate Bernie Sanders.

"I was for that," Ms. Goldberg said. "But I'm afraid we're going backwards right
now. Now the kinds of programs we're doing are even more important."

Ms. Goldberg specifically was referring to the SeedMA program, which debuted as
a pilot in Worcester this year. The initiative encourages parents of young
children to save for college by giving each kindergartner in the city an initial
$50 donation to open a 529 college savings account.

The treasurer's office opened enrollment for the program to Worcester families
in the summer. Deputy Treasurer Alayna Van Tassel said the treasurer's office
plans to release initial sign-up numbers soon.

"For year one, they're certainly meeting our expectations," she said.

If the program is successful in its three-year trial run - the Federal Reserve
Bank of Boston is running analysis of the initiative - Ms. Goldberg hopes to
roll it out statewide.

Since SeedMA is paid for through the state's Economic Empowerment Trust Fund,
Ms. Goldberg said she doesn't see the incoming presidential administration
having much effect on the effort. But the treasurer, who said she supports U.S.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren's calls for college loan debt relief, said the changing
political tides mean students likely won't be able to rely on the federal
government making public higher education free anytime soon.

For students who are too close to college graduation to begin saving now, making
tough choices is "part of the hard reality," Ms. Goldberg said.

The treasurer was specifically responding to Clark freshman Dalton Grady, who
said his family had not saved enough for his college education and was seeking
Ms. Goldberg's advice.

"Some of us are accumulating large amounts of debt," he said, at a university
where the average debt load for graduates is $23,000. "What do you recommend
that we should do?"

Ms. Goldberg did not endorse Mr. Grady's suggestion of transferring to a cheaper
college, but she said students do need to think carefully about their
post-college options; some students might be better off getting a better-paying
job first, for instance, before later pursuing their passion for lower-paid
public service work.

Ms. Goldberg also stressed the importance of financial planning education.

Mary Ellen Severance, left, director of financial assistance at Clark
University, and Jack Foley, vice president of government and community affairs
at Clark, listen as state Treasurer Deborah B. Goldberg, right, speaks during a
panel discussion on college costs and financial literacy at Clark on Thursday.
T&G Staff/Christine Peterson

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1026 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Wisconsin recount begins; Michigan's is challenged

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 3

LENGTH: 721 words



HIGHLIGHT: The tedious task of recounting Wisconsin's nearly 3 million votes for
president has begun, with scores of hastily hired temporary workers flipping
through stacks of ballots as observers watched their every move


MADISON, Wis. -- The tedious task of recounting Wisconsin's nearly 3 million
votes for president began Thursday with scores of hastily hired temporary
workers flipping through stacks of ballots as observers watched their every
move.

The action in Wisconsin could soon be duplicated in Michigan and Pennsylvania,
where Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein was pushing for recounts.
Donald Trump narrowly beat Hillary Clinton in all three states, but recounts
were not expected to flip nearly enough votes to change the outcome in any of
the states.

The Wisconsin recount marked the first time in 16 years there was a
candidate-driven recount of a presidential recount. But it does not carry the
same drama as the Florida presidential recount of 2000, when the outcome of the
election between Al Gore and George W. Bush hung in the balance.

"This is certainly not Bush v. Gore," said Wisconsin's chief elections
administrator, Mike Haas.

Even so, the campaigns for Trump, Clinton and Stein all had observers spread
throughout the state to watch the process. The recount will have to move
quickly. The federal deadline to certify the vote to avoid having the fate of
Wisconsin's 10 electoral votes decided by Congress is Dec. 13. Even if that were
to happen, the votes would almost certainly go to Trump, since Republicans
control both chambers of Congress.

Most counties will manually recount the ballots, although Stein lost a court
challenge this week to force hand recounts everywhere. The state's largest
county, Milwaukee, was recounting the ballots by feeding them through the same
machines that counted them on election night. In Dane County, where Clinton won
71 percent of the vote, the ballots were being counted by hand.

Workers in Dane County are being paid $20 an hour and will work two shifts over
about 12 hours a day to get the recount done by the deadline, said County Clerk
Scott McDonell. He didn't expect much change in the results.

"I think we will be very close to what was reported on election night," McDonell
said Thursday.

Clinton lost to Trump by about 22,000 votes in Wisconsin, or less than a
percentage point.

Stein has argued, without evidence, that irregularities in the votes in all
three states suggest that there could have been tampering with the vote, perhaps
through a well-coordinated, highly complex cyberattack.

"Verifying the vote through this recount is the only way to confirm that every
vote has been counted securely and accurately and is not compromised by machine
or human error, or by tampering or hacking," Stein said in a statement Thursday.

Stein's critics, including the Wisconsin Republican Party, contend that she is a
little-known candidate who is merely trying to raise her profile while raising
millions of dollars. Stein has taken in nearly $7 million for the recounts,
which is about twice as much as her longshot presidential campaign took in.

The Wisconsin recount was estimated to cost about $3.9 million. Stein paid
$973,250 for the requested recount in Michigan.

Trump on Thursday objected to a recount of Michigan's presidential votes, at
least delaying the planned Friday start of the recount there until next week.

The Board of State Canvassers will meet Friday to hear arguments. The Michigan
Bureau of Elections said the recount cannot proceed until two business days
after the four-member, bipartisan board resolves the objection.

Trump's attorneys said Stein, who finished fourth in Michigan, is not
"aggrieved" by any alleged election fraud or mistake, that a recount could not
be finished on time and that her petition was not properly signed. They said
Stein is asking for an expensive, time-consuming recount "on the basis of
nothing more than speculation."

Stein countered that Trump's "cynical efforts to delay the recount and create
unnecessary costs for taxpayers are shameful and outrageous."

In Pennsylvania, a hearing is scheduled for Monday on Stein's push to secure a
court-ordered statewide recount, a legal maneuver that has never been tried,
according to one of the lawyers who filed it.

Stein's attorneys want a forensic analysis of electronic voting machines in
Pennsylvania to see if there any evidence that their software was hacked. But
counties where Green Party-backed voters have sought a recount are refusing to
do such forensic examinations.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1027 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Designers mixed on dressing Melania Trump

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 272 words


First lady-to-be Melania Trump likely won't be wearing designer Tom Ford's
clothes in the White House.

Some of the designers who clamored to dress first lady Michelle Obama have been
mixed about dressing Mrs. Trump, a former model. Ford became the latest to weigh
in on the matter during an appearance this week on "The View."

The designer was asked to dress Melania Trump "quite a few years ago:" and
declined because "she's not necessarily my image," he said on the ABC chat show
Wednesday.

Ford was willing to dress first lady Michelle Obama for a London visit with
Queen Elizabeth II in 2011 and isn't the first to be less enthusiastic about
outfitting Mrs. Trump.

Sophie Theallat, whose designs have been worn by Mrs. Obama on several
occasions, wrote in an open letter last month that she would not dress Mrs.
Trump and specifically brought up politics in urging her colleagues to take the
same tact.

"The rhetoric of racism, sexism, and xenophobia unleashed by her husband's
presidential campaign are incompatible with the shared values we live by,"
Theallat wrote.

The letter prompted Women's Wear Daily , which covers the fashion industry, to
survey other prominent designers on the question of working with Mrs. Trump.

While Marc Jacobs said that he has "no interest whatsoever" in dressing Mrs.
Trump, Tommy Hilfiger told the trade magazine he was willing, calling her "a
beautiful woman who would make any designer's clothes look great."

Melania Trump, wife of Republican Presidential Candidate Donald Trump walks to
the stage July 18 during the opening day of the Republican National Convention
in Cleveland. The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1028 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        Sunday Telegram (Massachusetts)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                              Worcester TG Edition

Panel urges better cybersecurity, immediate action

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; 12

LENGTH: 1067 words


WASHINGTON -- A presidential commission on Friday made 16 urgent recommendations
to improve the nation's cybersecurity, including creating a nutritional-type
label to help consumers shop wisely and appointing a new international
ambassador on the subject -- weeks before President-elect Donald Trump takes
office.

The release of the 100-page report follows the worst hacking of U.S. government
systems in history and accusations by the Obama administration that Russia
meddled in the U.S. presidential election by hacking Democrats.

The Presidential Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity urged immediate
action within two to five years and suggested the Trump administration consider
acting on some proposals within its first 100 days.

The commission recommended that Trump create an assistant to the president for
cybersecurity, who would report through the national security adviser, and
establish an ambassador for cybersecurity, who would lead efforts to create
international rules. It urged steps, such as getting rid of traditional
passwords, to end the threat of identity theft by 2021 and said Trump's
administration should train 100,000 new cybersecurity workers by 2020.

Other ideas included helping consumers to judge products using an independent
nutritional-type label for technology products and services.

"What we've been doing over the last 15 to 20 years simply isn't working, and
the problem isn't going to be fixed simply by adding more money," said Steven
Chabinsky, a commission member and the global chair of the data, privacy and
cybersecurity practice for White & Case LLP, an international law firm.

He said the group wanted the burden of cybersecurity "moved away from every
computer user and handled at higher levels," including internet providers and
product developers who could ensure security by default and design "for
everyone's benefit."

The White House requested the report in February and intended it to serve as a
transition memo for the next president. The commission included 12 of what the
White House described as the brightest minds in business, academia, technology
and security. It was led by Tom Donilon, Obama's former national security
adviser.

The panel studied sharing information with private companies about cyber
threats, the lack of talented American security engineers and distrust of the
U.S. government by private businesses, especially in Silicon Valley. Classified
documents stolen under Obama by Edward Snowden, a contractor for the National
Security Agency, revealed government efforts to hack into the data pipelines
used by U.S. companies to serve customers overseas.

One commissioner, Herbert Lin of Stanford University, said some senior
information technology managers distrust the federal government as much as they
distrust China, widely regarded as actively hacking in the U.S.

President Barack Obama said in a written statement after meeting with Donilon
that his administration will take additional action "wherever possible" to build
on its efforts make progress before he leaves office next month. He urged Trump
and the next Congress to treat the recommendations as a guide.

"Now it is time for the next administration to take up this charge and ensure
that cyberspace can continue to be the driver for prosperity, innovation, and
change both in the United States and around the world," Obama said.

It was not immediately clear whether Trump would accept the group's
recommendations. Trump won the election on promises to reduce government
regulations, although decades of relying on market pressure or asking businesses
to voluntarily make their products and services safer have been largely
ineffective.

Trump's presidential campaign benefited from embarrassing disclosures in hacked
emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee, Hillary Clinton's campaign
staff and others, and Trump openly invited Russian hackers to find and release
tens of thousands of personal emails that Clinton had deleted from the private
server she had used to conduct government business as secretary of state. He
also disputed the Obama administration's conclusion that Russia was responsible
for the Democratic hackings.

Though Trump is a prolific user of online social media services, especially
Twitter, he is rarely seen using a computer. His campaign manager, Kellyanne
Conway, tweeted a photograph Monday of Trump working on an Apple laptop inside
his office at Trump Tower. He testified in a deposition in 2012 that he did not
own a personal computer or smartphone, and in another deposition earlier this
year said he deliberately does not use email.

Trump has already promised his own study by a "Cyber Review Team" of people he
said he will select from military, law enforcement and private sectors. He said
his team will develop mandatory cyber awareness training for all U.S. government
employees, and he has proposed a buildup of U.S. military offensive and
defensive cyber capabilities that he said will deter foreign hackers.

The new report suggested that the government should remain the only organization
responsible for responding to large-scale attacks by foreign countries.

Obama has a mixed legacy on cybersecurity.

Under Obama, hackers stole personal data from the U.S. Office of Personnel
Management on more than 21 million current, former and prospective government
employees, including details of security-clearance background investigations for
federal agents, intelligence employees and others. The White House also failed
in its efforts to convince Congress to pass a national law -- similar to laws
passed in some states -- to require hacked companies to notify affected
customers.

But the Obama administration also became more aggressive about publicly
identifying foreign governments it accused of hacking U.S. victims, arrested
some high-profile hackers overseas, successfully shut down some large networks
of hacked computers used to attack online targets, enacted but never actually
used economic sanctions against countries that hacked American targets and used
a sophisticated new cyber weapon called Stuxnet against Iran's main nuclear
enrichment facilities.

Congress passed a new law in late 2015 to encourage companies and the government
to share information about online threats.

President Barack Obama talks to media in February about the Commission on
Enhancing National Cybersecurity. File Photo/The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1029 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        Sunday Telegram (Massachusetts)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                              Worcester TG Edition

It's jobs

SECTION: OPINION; 5

LENGTH: 596 words


In the aftermath of the 2016 presidential election, I'm rethinking a basic
belief about the economy. For a long time, I've believed that what mattered most
for economic well-being was money. Median income, consumption, wages -- all
measured in dollars.

I've supported policies aimed at boosting the amount of money in the average
person's pocket. And assumed that a dollar of government redistribution is just
as good as a dollar of wages.

I'm starting to think I was wrong. Maybe not completely wrong, but I did ignore
a big, important source of economic well-being: jobs.

In most economic theory, a job isn't treated as something inherently valuable --
it's just a conduit for money to flow from employer to employee. But most people
probably care not just about the amount of money they get, but how they get it.
If they see themselves as having earned their daily bread, they feel better
about themselves than if they got a handout.

This isn't something economists think about much; it doesn't appear in research
literature much. To most people, the idea that jobs provide dignity and a sense
of self-worth seems laughably obvious. But among economists, there remains a
relentless unwillingness to consider the importance of dignity and social
respect.

There are a few exceptions. David Blanchflower and Andrew Oswald have found that
having a job is an important determinant of how satisfied people are, regardless
of how much money they have. Meanwhile, some of the little sociology research I
do know shows that job status is important for keeping marriages together.

Meanwhile, out in the real world, Americans are hurting from a lack of jobs. A
number of deep dives into the mindset of Trump voters, both before and after the
election, focused on the loss of status and self-respect that less-educated men
in decaying industrial regions have suffered as jobs were lost and replaced by
government benefits.

The Democrats have been the party of the social safety net, and have long
wondered why so many working-class Americans don't seem to appreciate those
benefits.

Trump, meanwhile, sailed to victory in the Midwest, in part by railing against
globalization. Regions that experienced more Chinese import competition were
much more likely to vote for Trump. In those same regions nothing has replaced
jobs lost to Chinese imports. So it seems that many voters in the Midwest didn't
want checks in the mail -- they wanted work. And they voted for a candidate who
promised them jobs, even if he was very vague on his plans for doing so.

An easy step is to promote demand-based policies that keep employment high, like
fiscal stimulus. A more drastic measure would be a federal job guarantee.
Although many such jobs would pay low wages, it's probably better to have
unemployed people doing something marginally useful. Another option is slashing
regulations that make it more costly and difficult to hire employees.

Perhaps the deepest change would tweak U.S. corporate culture, restoring the
value of long-term employment. Obviously, it's easy to go too far -- witness
Japan -- but it could be that U.S. labor arrangements are simply too short-term
and insecure. Tax incentives for long-term labor contracts, or for labor
hoarding during recessions, could favor employment over pure dollars.

Economists should read more sociology, talk to more workers and pay more
attention to things like dignity, respect and a sense of community --
intangibles that aren't sold in any market.

-- Noah Smith, a former assistant professor of finance at Stony Brook
University, is a Bloomberg View columnist.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1030 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                                onwallstreet.com

                                 December 2016

Wells Fargo to keep commissions under fiduciary rule

BYLINE: Andrew Welsch

SECTION: Vol. 1 No. 1

LENGTH: 500  words


Wells Fargo will offer clients commission-based retirement accounts under the
fiduciary rule, according to a company memo sent to advisers, making it the
latest firm to unveil plans for complying with the new regulation.

The policy applies to both employee and independent advisers, according to a
company spokeswoman.

Several firms, including Morgan Stanley and Ameriprise, are opting to make use
of the rule's best contract interest exemption, which permits commission-based
business.

With more than 15,000 advisers, Wells Fargo is one of the largest firms to do
so. Merrill Lynch, which has 14,000 advisers, has moved in the opposite
direction, saying clients who want commission-based business can opt to use
Merrill Edge, its self-directed platform, or its forthcoming robo adviser
service.

"If a firm doesn't have something like Merrill Edge or an adviser base like that
of Merrill's, then they might come to a different conclusion," Alois Pirker,
research director at Aite Group, a Boston-based research firm, said last month.

Among the wirehouses, only UBS has not announced whether the firm will keep
commission-based accounts.

Executives at many firms have expressed concern about an increased liability
risk if they were to permit advisers to use the contract exemption. But, several
industry analysts have noted that the rule is likely to pinch revenue streams
for some firms, depending on their business model.

But even as wealth management firms have been detailing plans for complying with
the rule, the presidential election has thrown the future of the Department of
Labor's regulation into doubt. Republicans in Congress have expressed their
desire to overturn the rule, and President-elect Donald Trump has indicated a
desire to rollback Obama-era regulations. Wells Fargo acknowledged this
uncertainty in its memo.

"While there is a great deal of speculation in the media on how the election
results will affect the DoL rule, none of us can say with certainty what will
actually happen. Many different types of scenarios are possible, and we are
planning for all of them. In the meantime, we will continue preparing for an
April 2017 implementation," the company said.

A person familiar with the company's fiduciary planning confirms that executives
are moving ahead as if the rule will go into effect. But even if the regulation
is overturned next year, it may be wise to make adjustments to how the company
does business given the momentum a fiduciary standard has had, the person says.

"I think we'll be living in a fiduciary world three to four years from now
anyways," he says.

The firm said it was taking additional measures to comply with the rule,
including more documentation of client risk tolerance and intention, as well as
investment recommendations.

Wells Fargo will announce other changes in the coming weeks, according to the
memo.

The firm may curtail the product range available in retirement accounts,
offering clients "more pre-approved solutions," according to the source.

URL:
http://www.onwallstreet.com/news/wells-fargo-to-keep-commissions-under-fiduciary
-rule

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1031 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                                 On Wall Street

                                 December 2016

Advisers Pull Back on Equities;
Clients have become much more hesitant about making new investments.

BYLINE: Andrew Welsch

SECTION: INDEX; Pg. 10 Vol. 26 No. 12

LENGTH: 273  words


Advisers say clients have been cutting their asset allocations to U.S. equities
as mounting concerns about political upheaval at home and abroad curtail risk
tolerance.

The latest edition of the Global Asset Allocation Tracker shows allocations to
domestic equities dropping to a record low. The survey, taken just before the
U.S. presidential election, polled 311 planners. It also showed a slip in
allocations to global equities, while allocations to bonds remained relatively
flat.

Wealth managers say clients were sitting on cash and holding back on new
allocations until they saw the U.S. election results.

One planner reports advising clients "to put asset investments on hold until
election results are in and analyzed."

Advisers also cited clients' concerns about the uncertainty surrounding turmoil
in international markets, notably Britain's upcoming negotiations to exit the
European Union.

Yet despite the dip in allocations to global equities, some advisers say they
see buying opportunities.

"Although international markets have been lagging in recent years, we see them
as a great buying opportunity amid the stale growth of the U.S. markets," an
adviser says.

A wealth manager expects valuations in emerging markets in particular to improve
relative to those in U.S. markets. Several planners also report they reminded
clients about the benefits of focusing on the long term.

After all, U.S. presidents are in office for a maximum of eight years, and
clients' investment horizons are typically much longer than that. "My advice is
to ride out the tough times so you don't miss the initial rise as things get
better," a planner says.

URL: http://www.OnWallStreet.com/

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1032 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                             National Mortgage News

                                December 1, 2016

Let the Bubble Burst;
The Federal Reserve has maintained historically low interest rates for too long,
causing superficially high prices in housing and other assets. After the
presidential election, will the Fed maintain the status quo, or embrace risk and
raises rates?

BYLINE: Brendan Brown

SECTION: VOICES; Pg. 26 Vol. 41 No. 5

LENGTH: 609  words


With each new U.S. president an asset market bubble is born, or so it seems from
a study of contemporary economic history. Yet the victor on Nov. 8 will be the
first new president since George H.W. Bush in January 1989to take office when
the bubble created by the outgoing president is still almost fully expanded.
Here's what that could mean for president-elect Donald Trump.

In the aftermath of Trump's suprise victory, both Federal Reserve Board Chair
Janet Yellen and Fed Vice-Chair Stanley Fischer might be more concerned about
their bag-packing plans than the niceties of cajoling the president-elect to
approve their plans for the Fed policy agenda. Time will tell whether a Trump
Fed, moving more deliberately to normalize, had inadvertently already passed the
point of no return. It is possible that a Trump Fed would agree with the
Republicans in Congress who advocate that the aim should be stable prices rather
than perpetual 2% inflation. But a 25-basis-point rate hike is in itself a
triviality and diversion. Real normalization would start with shrinking the
monetary base and allowing market forces fuller leeway in the determination of
rates.

Recent speeches by Yellen and Fischer assert there is no price bubble to begin
with. Pointedly, Fischer said there is no evidence at all of financial
instability. Meanwhile, Yellen would like to see the economy overheat for a
while to allow investment spending to pick up, and discouraged the idea of
workers being pulled back into the labor force. Neither Yellen nor Fischer seem
to be concerned that there is already overheating - if asset markets are
included in the analysis.

Of course, the history and current composition of the Fed don't inspire
confidence in its ability to spot bubbles. In any case, some cynics might say
that both Yellen and Fischer, despite their public statements, recognize that
dangerous asset-price inflation may already have taken hold. Yet they remain
mute or ostensibly in denial, realizing that any hint by them of this would give
credence to the Trump campaign, which has taken aim against their bubble-making.

The timing of the end-phase of the present asset-price inflation is indeed
largely unpredictable, though highly likely within a two-year time span. More
fundamentally, there is the question of whether conditions would be ripe for the
combination of speculative storytelling and hunt for yield to take off and
empower new asset-price inflation so early following a devastating end to the
previous episode.

The one or two presidents who experienced the end phase of asset-price inflation
early in their new terms did not turn to the radical monetary experimentation
which might succeed in recreating asset-price inflation in a still-weak economic
environment. By being too slow to raise rates, the Fed could turn a miracle into
a bubble. In that way, the historical pattern of new presidents authoring their
own episode of asset-price inflation would remain intact.

The pattern stretches all the way back to the great asset-price inflation of
1962-1968 under John F. Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson's presidencies. Presidents
Richard Nixon (1971-1973), Ronald Reagan (1986-1990), Bill Clinton (1995-2000),
George W. Bush (2003-2007) and Barack Obama (2010-present) all saw periods of
asset-price inflation. The Jimmy Carter and George H.W. Bush administrations
were exceptions.

So an obvious question to ask in the twilight days of the current administration
and its Federal Reserve is: will the pattern continue? The short answer is
probably not this time.

Brendan Brown is an executive director and the chief economist of Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities International.

URL: http://www.nationalmortgagenews.com//

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1033 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                             National Mortgage News

                                December 1, 2016

Will Trump Tackle Housing Finance Reform?;
The unresolved question of what to do with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac - both in
conservatorship since 2008 - will loom large over the future Trump
administration.

BYLINE: Lan Mckendry, Bonnie Sinnock, Brad Finkelstein

SECTION: COMPLIANCE & REGULATION; Pg. 14 Vol. 41 No. 5

LENGTH: 995  words


Housing was the talk of the campaign two presidential elections ago, but it
stayed under the radar in the 2016 race, leaving plenty of room to speculate
about President-elect Donald Trump's likely mortgage policy for the next four
years.

On the one hand, without a crisis, observers said there is little incentive for
him to move quickly on the issue.

But the unresolved question of what to do with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac - both
in conservatorship since before Barack Obama's election - will loom large over
the future Trump administration.

Exactly how Trump would address the issue is a complete mystery. The issue was
never raised on the campaign trail.

"The disappointing part [of the election] has been that the Trump campaign has
had very little to say about housing," said Patrick Sinks, the chief executive
of MGIC Investment Corp. and the chairman of U.S. Mortgage Insurers, a trade
group for the private mortgage insurance industry.

Trump may also be reluctant to weigh in on a subject that has tripped up
policymakers in the past.

"Lots of people have put a lot of thought into [government-sponsored enterprise]
reform, but it is incredibly difficult to get a super-majority consensus on it,"
said Dennis Kelleher, the head of the advocacy group Better Markets.

With the GOP in control of the House and the Senate closely divided, it's clear
that any housing finance reform legislation would need significant bipartisan
support - and it's not at all obvious how that can happen. The last bipartisan
effort died two years ago after progressive Democrats said the bill would not do
enough to promote affordable housing.

"Any new housing policies will have to be bipartisan and carefully negotiated,"
said John Dalton, head of the Financial Services Roundtable's Housing Policy
Council.

Yet Trump may eventually have to address the issue as Fannie and Freddie are
projected to run out of capital by 2018. The two GSEs have a line of credit with
the Treasury Department, but as part of their conservatorship they are required
to transfer their profits and a portion of their operating capital to the
Treasury, a structure that was meant to force Congress and the next
administration to reform the housing finance market.

Some speculated that Trump will at least start allowing the GSEs to rebuild
capital so that the issue will not come to a head. Recapitalizing the GSEs and
releasing them from conservatorship might prove too difficult a lift, given
opposition from Republican and Democratic lawmakers.

"We believe that recapping and releasing the GSEs will prove difficult without
legislation, but our sense is that there is a high likelihood of capital
retention if Trump takes the White House," wrote Isaac Boltansky, an analyst at
Compass Point Research & Trading in a note to clients.

Ed Groshans, an analyst at Height Securities, argued in a note to clients that
Trump would delay dealing with the issue as long as possible.

The complete exclusion of housing as a priority means that the issue of housing
finance reform would not come to the forefront unless he were reelected to a
second term," he wrote. "In our view, the GSEs will continue to pay all earnings
to Treasury well into the second term of the next President, assuming
reelection."

Joseph Murin, who previously served as president of Ginnie Mae during the George
W. Bush and Obama administrations, said Trump may leave the issue to GOP
lawmakers.

"There are people on the Hill eager to retool the government-sponsored
enterprises and move them forward," said Murin, now the chairman of the
investment advisory firm Jjam Financial. "Folks on that side of the aisle
believe in housing finance reform. They believe that a structure needs to be put
in place that allows the government to participate in catastrophic coverage, not
first-tier coverage."

BEYOND GSES

Outside of housing finance reform, Trump is expected to shake things up. Some
predicted that he would seek new leadership of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency.

"[Director] Mel Watt will be gone," said A.W. Pickel III, president of the
Midwest Division at AmCap Mortgage Ltd. in Houston, a lender and servicer of
government and GSE loans.

Trump is also expected to be supportive of big businesses, but it is unclear
what his single-family-housing policies are or what they could portend for
smaller lenders, said Brent Nyitray, director of capital markets at iServe
Residential Lending in Stamford, Conn.

While Trump has been involved in home mortgage lending and has ties to the
industry, more of his work has involved large commercial real estate projects.

"It could be good or it could be bad [for single-family lenders]," said Nyitray.

Trump and the Republicans have shown interest in reforming the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, but Senate Democrats retain enough influence to
make that challenging at best.

Still, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director Richard Cordray's term will
expire in 2018, giving Trump an opportunity to influence the agency at that
time. The agency's fate may also depend on pending litigation.

The GOP will also likely to push legislation that will lighten the regulatory
burden on lenders.

"It's pretty obvious the Republicans are [for] less government in housing," said
Brian Montgomery, vice chairman of The Collingwood Group and a former Federal
Housing Administration commissioner.

But no one expects sweeping action because other issues are higher priority,
such as health care reform.

"If you ask most lenders, the market works today," Sinks said. "A lender wants
to originate a loan, insure that loan and turn around and sell that loan to the
GSEs and replenish their capital and start the process over again. That works.
And it keeps humming along."

As long as that remains true, the incentive to take big chances won't be there.

"The bigger issue is what the right role for government in housing is. That's
going to take legislative action and [lawmakers] just don't seem to be in a
hurry to resolve it."

URL: http://www.nationalmortgagenews.com//

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1034 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                               Financial Planning

                                 December 2016

GLOBAL ASSET ALLOCATION TRACKER: Advisers Pull Back on Equities;
Clients have become much more hesitant about making new investments.

BYLINE: Andrew Welsch

SECTION: BENCHMARK; Pg. 16 Vol. 46 No. 12

LENGTH: 273  words


Advisers say clients Have been cutting their asset allocations to U.S. equities
as mounting concerns about political upheaval at home and abroad curtail risk
tolerance.

The latest edition of the Global Asset Allocation Tracker shows allocations to
domestic equities dropping to a record low. The survey, taken just before the
U.S. presidential election, polled 311 planners. It also showed a slip in
allocations to global equities, while allocations to bonds remained relatively
flat.

Wealth managers say clients were sitting on cash and holding back on new
allocations until they saw the U.S. election results.

One planner reports advising clients "to put asset investments on hold until
election results are in and analyzed."

Advisers also cited clients' concerns about the uncertainty surrounding turmoil
in international markets, notably Britain's upcoming negotiations to exit the
European Union.

Yet despite the dip in allocations to global equities, some advisers say they
see buying opportunities.

"Although international markets have been lagging in recent years, we see them
as a great buying opportunity amid the stale growth of the U.S. markets," an
adviser says.

A wealth manager expects valuations in emerging markets in particular to improve
relative to those in U.S. markets. Several planners also report they reminded
clients about the benefits of focusing on the long term.

After all, U.S. presidents are in office for a maximum of eight years, and
clients' investment horizons are typically much longer than that. "My advice is
to ride out the tough times so you don't miss the initial rise as things get
better," a planner says.

URL: http://www.financial-planning.com/

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1035 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                               Financial Planning

                                 December 2016

RETIREMENT ADVISER CONFIDENCE INDEX: Managing Risk-Averse Clients;
Advisers reported a significant drop in perceived client risk tolerance; worries
about rate hikes among many concerns.

BYLINE: Maddy Perkins

SECTION: BENCHMARK; Pg. 14 Vol. 46 No. 12

LENGTH: 385  words


Advisers are trying to be reassuring as their clients' risk tolerance plummets.
Across the board, advisers reported clients were considerably more opposed to
taking on risk.

Clients' perceived risk tolerance level fell 9.3 points to 36.2.

Some advisers noted the increase in client worries may have been brought on by
anxieties ahead of the U.S. presidential election.

Other advisers speculated their clients were hesitant to put money toward
retirement accounts without witnessing how the Department of Labor's fiduciary
rule might affect them. Other planners speculated on when the Fed would hike
interest rates.

Clients shied away from equities, as allocations dropped 6.6 points to 50.5,
still in positive territory. Total contributions received for retirement plans
fell 4.8 points to 55.8.

Some advisers said they saw opportunity amid uncertainty. "Short-term volatility
should be used as a means of finding opportunistic entry points," wrote one
adviser.

Some advisers said they felt less inclined to take on risk, because of
uncertainty surrounding when the Fed will hike interest rates.

"We all await the Fed's [announcement of] a higher federal funds rate. The
resulting higher interest rates generally have an impact on the stock market,"
said one adviser.

A few advisers seemed unfazed by their clients' risk aversion, claiming that
seasonal anxiety about what many consider the beginning of tax season may be
affecting their perception.

"Between now and April, I expect the amount of retirement contributions to
increase as clients prepare for tax season," said one adviser.

Many advisers grappled with how the implementation of the Labor Department's
fiduciary rule would affect their retirement practices - if the regulation holds
under the Trump administration.

One adviser wrote that the rule "will create a wave of big changes on investment
offerings, platforms and solutions for clients, many of which are unfortunately
going to hurt investors and limit their choices."

The Retirement Adviser Confidence Index is composed of 10 factors - including
asset allocations, investment product recommendations, economic and risk
factors, taxes and planning fees - to track trends in wealth management. RACI
readings below 50 indicate deteriorating business conditions, while readings
over 50 indicate improvements.

URL: http://www.financial-planning.com/

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1036 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                                Accounting Today

                                December 1, 2016

The impact of the election on tax issues

BYLINE: George G. Jones and Mark A. Luscombe

SECTION: TAX PRACTICE; Pg. 27 Vol. 30 No. 12

LENGTH: 1812  words


While taxes did not seem to be one of the top issues in the November elections,
both presidential candidates included a variety of tax proposals in their
platforms. Also, there were a few tax-related initiatives on state ballots.

With Republicans in control of both the White House and Congress, there may be
some greater success in getting tax legislation enacted. Still, Republicans do
not have a filibuster-proof majority in the Senate, and Republican congressional
leaders and the new president do not appear to be united on all aspects of
President-elect Trump's tax proposals.

Individual Tax Cuts

President-elect Trump has focused his tax proposals on lowering both individual
and business tax rates in order to try to stimulate economic growth. His
proposals include reducing the individual marginal rate tax brackets to three
rates: 12, 25 and 33 percent. This is an increase from the current bottom rate
of 10 percent, but a decrease from the current top rate of 39.6 percent. These
rates are in line with Republican congressional proposals and therefore are
likely to survive as part of any tax reform effort in Congress.

Trump has also proposed to more than double the standard deduction to $15,000
for single individuals and $30,000 for joint filers. This would be tied to an
elimination of the deduction for personal exemptions and the head of household
filing status. For some taxpayers, such as single parents, the elimination of
the personal exemptions and the head of household filing status could cost more
than the increase of the standard deduction would offset. Congressional
Republicans may be inclined to rework this formula somewhat.

Business Tax Cuts

On the business side, President-elect Trump has proposed a reduction in the top
corporate tax rate to 15 percent and to also extend this 15 percent top rate to
all business income, such as that from pass-through entities and sole
proprietorships. This would therefore reduce the top rate for corporations from
the current 35 percent to 15 percent and reduce the top rate applied to business
income from pass-through entities and sole proprietorships from a top ordinary
income tax rate of 39.6 percent to 15 percent. Trump has suggested that, in
exchange for the lower tax rate on non-corporate business income, some sort of
tax, like the tax on dividends, would be applied to distributions of business
income.

While Congressional Republicans have supported a reduction in the corporate tax
rate, their proposals have tended to be more in the 22 to 25 percent range to
try to maintain revenue neutrality. Trump's proposals are projected to add
significantly to the deficit, although his advisors counter that economic growth
resulting from the tax cuts would offset additions to the deficit. There will
probably be some compromises in the final corporate rate proposed.

The concept of extending the 15 percent rate to other business income has not
been included in Congressional Republican proposals. It could create incentives
to try to convert ordinary income to business income, such as by reclassifying
employees as independent contractors. The Trump campaign has stated that they
would hope to include provisions to prevent this but have not provided any
specifics. It is not clear that Congressional Republicans are ready to endorse
this proposal, with concerns about the deficit also being a factor here.

The ACA

President-elect Trump has stated that one of his first priorities would be to
repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. This would apparently mean the
repeal of all of the taxes associated with the act. These would include the 3.8
percent tax on net investment income, the additional 0.9 percent Medicare tax on
wages and self-employment income, the penalties on individuals for failure to
obtain health insurance and on employers for failure to offer affordable health
insurance, the "Cadillac" tax on overly generous health plans, and the medical
device excise tax. It would also, however, eliminate the premium assistance
credit and the small business health insurance credit.

Congressional Republicans have long advocated repeal of the ACA, but have not
been very specific about what would replace it. President-elect Trump has
outlined some basic elements of a replacement plan, but it probably needs to be
fleshed out much more before enactment. It is possible, however, that the
Congress might try again to repeal the act without a detailed replacement in
place, and Trump might support that effort.

The Estate and Gift Tax

President-elect Trump has also proposed the repeal of the federal estate and
gift tax. This is also a position long advocated by Congressional Republicans
and could be enacted in the new Congress. Trump proposed that, as part of
repeal, stepped-up-basis on death would be disallowed for taxable gains in
excess of $10 million.

Proposals on Child Care

President-elect Trump has outlined a set of proposals to provide tax assistance
for child care. He would create a new above-the-line deduction for child and
dependent care expenses. He also proposes to increase the Earned Income Tax
Credit for working parents through a spending rebate. He has proposed the
creation of Dependent CARE Savings Accounts with individual contributions
matched 50 percent by government contributions.

On the business side, he has also proposed to increase the annual cap for the
business tax credit for on-site childcare, with a reduced recapture period.
While in many ways these look more like Democratic than Republican proposals,
these tax breaks are likely to garner bipartisan support in Congress.

Other Individual Proposals

In order to somewhat offset the cost of his proposed tax reductions, Trump has
proposed to impose a cap on the amount of itemized deductions that could be
claimed on a tax return at $100,000 for single filers and $200,000 for joint
filers. The idea of limiting itemized deductions has been an element of tax
reform proposals, although fundamental tax reform proposals have suggested
completely eliminating or at least limiting a number of the individual itemized
deductions.

Trump has also proposed eliminating the Alternative Minimum Tax. This idea has
generally had congressional support, with the main issue here usually being what
to come up with to offset the lost revenue.

Other Business Proposals

Trump has proposed taxing carried interests of private equity fund managers at
capital gain rates, rather than ordinary income rates. This was also one of
Hillary Clinton's proposals. This Trump proposal appears to be somewhat in
conflict with his proposal to tax business income at a 15 percent tax rate,
which would be even lower than the top capital gains tax rate. The Trump
campaign has said that they would expect to address this issue as well, but have
not provided any specific details.

President-elect Trump has proposed to eliminate certain unspecified "corporate
tax expenditures," although indicating that the Research & Development Credit
would be spared. Congressional tax reform proposals have generally included the
elimination of many corporate tax breaks as part of the cost of lowering
corporate tax rates. However, corporate lobbyists continue to pressure for
preservation of their favorite tax breaks.

He has proposed a doubling of the Code Sec. 179 small-business expensing
election to $1 million. Trump has also proposed the immediate deduction of all
new investments in a business, which has also been endorsed by congressional tax
reform/simplification advocates. This proposal would, however, seem to eliminate
the need for the Code Sec. 179 proposal. President-elect Trump has proposed to
eliminate the deduction of interest. This idea has not been part of most tax
reform proposals, but it could be considered as the Congress and the Internal
Revenue Service try to deal with the reclassification of debt as equity in
abusive situations.

On the international front, Trump has proposed a "one-time" deemed repatriation
tax of 10 percent on corporate profits of U.S. multinational corporations being
held offshore. Various versions of a repatriation tax have been proposed by both
Congressional Republicans and Democrats, sometimes as part of international tax
reform, other times to pay for infrastructure improvements. Some version of a
repatriation tax is likely to be included in any tax legislation in the new
Congress.

State Tax Initiatives

A few states had tax-related ballot initiatives. California had propositions on
the ballot to impose fees for plastic bags. Oregon had a proposal to increase
the tax on corporate sales by out-of-state businesses. Many states this year
have proposals related to marijuana. California, Massachusetts and Nevada had
approved proposals to legalize marijuana for recreational use. While not
directly a tax issue, these proposals have tended to be a revenue source for the
states that enact them. With the federal government continuing to view marijuana
as a controlled substance, these state approvals also raise federal tax issues
for marijuana businesses operating in these states.

Other Tax Issues

Congress has a number of tax legislative proposals already before it. These
include a package of tax breaks that expire at the end of 2016. Also included is
a package of retirement savings enhancements, a bill to prevent stock options
from being taxed until the stock is sold, a limit on IRS asset seizure
authority, an exclusion from tax for qualified student loan discharges for
students who have died or suffered a permanent disability, and tax breaks for
2016 flooding and hurricane victims. It is not clear if any of these will be
taken up in the lame duck session or left until early 2017.

A bill permitting employers to continue to offer health reimbursement
arrangements to their employees without penalties imposed by the Affordable Care
Act may not be needed if that act is repealed.

Summary

Although the Republican position in both houses of Congress will be somewhat
weaker in the new Congress than the current Congress, they retain the majority
in both houses and are therefore likely to wait until the new Republican
administration is inaugurated in January 2017 to push for tax legislation,
rather than make any significant effort in the lame duck session.

It would be expected, however, that a Republican Congress and Republican
administration will make a significant effort at tax reform in 2017 that is
likely to include many of President-elect Trump's proposals, even if in somewhat
modified form to try to come closer to a revenue-neutral bill.

The Democrats in the Senate continue to have sufficient numbers to threaten a
filibuster; however, revenue items can often be put on a track that requires
only a simple majority for approval.

George G. Jones, JD, LL.M, is managing editor, and Mark A. Luscombe, JD, LL.M,
CPA, is principal analyst, at Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting.

URL: http://www.webcpa.com/

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1037 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                                Accounting Today

                                December 1, 2016

BYLINE: Editorial Staff

SECTION: PROFESSION WATCH; Pg. 6 Vol. 30 No. 12

LENGTH: 709  words


A New President

In case you hadn't heard, Donald Trump won the presidential election. With the
Republican Party in control of the House and the Senate, this significantly
increased the odds of major changes to tax laws next year, particularly since
the president-elect had aligned much of his tax agenda with that of the GOP's
congressional leadership.

Among the tax-related items the Trump administration is likely to pursue (in
many cases during its first 100 days) are:

Lowering the corporate tax rate to 15 percent;

Lowering individual income tax rates and reducing the number of brackets to
three (at 12 percent, 25 percent and 33 percent);

Capping the capital gains rate at 20 percent;

Eliminating the estate tax; and,

Eliminating the taxes associated with the Affordable Care Act as part of its
repeal. (For more, see "Tax Strategy" on page 27.)

The usual end-of-the-year merger frenzy began, with accounting firms of all
sizes wheeling and dealing. (See our expanded M&A Watch, page 42.)

Top 6 Firm BDO USA brought on 15 new Securities and Exchange Commission audit
clients in the third quarter, leading the auditor pack. (See page 30.)

The International Accounting Standards Board released its five-year work plan
for International Financial Reporting Standards, with a focus on completing its
insurance contracts standard and revising its conceptual framework. The IASB
anticipates issuing both documents next year, and is also aiming for "better
communication" in financial statements as a central theme in its
standard-setting over the next five years.

It was a tough month for large audit firms, as regulators and legislators hit a
number of them with charges or pointed questions. The Securities and Exchange
Commission, for instance, charged PKF O'Connor Davies and one of its senior
partners with issuing fraudulent audit reports on the municipal bond offerings
of the town of Ramapo, N.Y. PKF O'Connor Davies defended its audits.

The SEC also initiated proceedings against an audit partner at Big Four firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers, accusing him of not doing enough to audit a venture
capital fund whose manager was stealing money, alleging that the PwC auditor
failed to flag the millions of dollars taken from a fund. PwC plans to dispute
the case.

And a group of senators, including Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., and Bernie
Sanders, I-Vt., asked KPMG about the quality of its audits at Wells Fargo from
2011 to 2015, in the wake of the recent scandal involving the bank's opening of
millions of unauthorized customer accounts. At press time, the Big Four firm was
reviewing the senators' letter.

A number of high-profile appointments and elections were announced. The American
Institute of CPAs installed Kimberly Ellison-Taylor, global accounting strategy
director for Oracle America, as the new chairman of its board of directors,
making her the AICPA's first African-American female chairperson. Before joining
Oracle, Ellison-Taylor had leadership positions at the NASA Goddard Space Flight
Center, Motorola, KPMG, and the Prince George's County, Maryland, government.

Andrew Miskin was named the inaugural chair of the Association of International
Certified Professional Accountants, the new global accounting organization
created by the AICPA and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. He
is currently president of CIMA, a role he will continue to serve in, while
immediate past AICPA chair Tim Christen will serve as the new association's
inaugural vice chairman.

The trustees of the IFRS Foundation, which oversees the International Accounting
Standards Board, appointed Sue Lloyd vice chair of the board, succeeding Ian
Mackintosh. She has worked at the IFRS Foundation since 2009, and was director
of capital markets and senior director of technical activities before being made
a board member in 2014. She has a background in investment banking in the U.K.
and Australia, and was previously a member of the Australian Accounting
Standards Board.

Jim Proppe was elected the next managing partner of Top 15 Firm Plante Moran,
starting July 1, 2017. He will succeed Gordon Krater, who will step down after
completing two four-year terms. Proppe joined the firm in 1984, and has served
as a group managing partner for the past 12 years.

URL: http://www.webcpa.com/

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1038 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              accountingtoday.com

                                December 1, 2016

Tax Strategy;
The impact of the election on tax issues

BYLINE: GEORGE G. JONES AND MARK A. LUSCOMBE

SECTION: TAX PRACTICE Vol. 1 No. 1

LENGTH: 1814  words


While taxes did not seem to be one of the top issues in the November elections,
both presidential candidates included a variety of tax proposals in their
platforms. Also, there were a few tax-related initiatives on state ballots.

With Republicans in control of both the White House and Congress, there may be
some greater success in getting tax legislation enacted. Still, Republicans do
not have a filibuster-proof majority in the Senate, and Republican congressional
leaders and the new president do not appear to be united on all aspects of
President-elect Trump's tax proposals.



INDIVIDUAL TAX CUTS

President-elect Trump has focused his tax proposals on lowering both individual
and business tax rates in order to try to stimulate economic growth. His
proposals include reducing the individual marginal rate tax brackets to three
rates: 12, 25 and 33 percent. This is an increase from the current bottom rate
of 10 percent, but a decrease from the current top rate of 39.6 percent. These
rates are in line with Republican congressional proposals and therefore are
likely to survive as part of any tax reform effort in Congress.

Trump has also proposed to more than double the standard deduction to $15,000
for single individuals and $30,000 for joint filers. This would be tied to an
elimination of the deduction for personal exemptions and the head of household
filing status. For some taxpayers, such as single parents, the elimination of
the personal exemptions and the head of household filing status could cost more
than the increase of the standard deduction would offset. Congressional
Republicans may be inclined to rework this formula somewhat.



BUSINESS TAX CUTS

On the business side, President-elect Trump has proposed a reduction in the top
corporate tax rate to 15 percent and to also extend this 15 percent top rate to
all business income, such as that from pass-through entities and sole
proprietorships. This would therefore reduce the top rate for corporations from
the current 35 percent to 15 percent and reduce the top rate applied to business
income from pass-through entities and sole proprietorships from a top ordinary
income tax rate of 39.6 percent to 15 percent. Trump has suggested that, in
exchange for the lower tax rate on non-corporate business income, some sort of
tax, like the tax on dividends, would be applied to distributions of business
income.

While Congressional Republicans have supported a reduction in the corporate tax
rate, their proposals have tended to be more in the 22 to 25 percent range to
try to maintain revenue neutrality. Trump's proposals are projected to add
significantly to the deficit, although his advisors counter that economic growth
resulting from the tax cuts would offset additions to the deficit. There will
probably be some compromises in the final corporate rate proposed.

The concept of extending the 15 percent rate to other business income has not
been included in Congressional Republican proposals. It could create incentives
to try to convert ordinary income to business income, such as by reclassifying
employees as independent contractors. The Trump campaign has stated that they
would hope to include provisions to prevent this but have not provided any
specifics. It is not clear that Congressional Republicans are ready to endorse
this proposal, with concerns about the deficit also being a factor here.



THE ACA

President-elect Trump has stated that one of his first priorities would be to
repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. This would apparently mean the
repeal of all of the taxes associated with the act. These would include the 3.8
percent tax on net investment income, the additional 0.9 percent Medicare tax on
wages and self-employment income, the penalties on individuals for failure to
obtain health insurance and on employers for failure to offer affordable health
insurance, the "Cadillac" tax on overly generous health plans, and the medical
device excise tax. It would also, however, eliminate the premium assistance
credit and the small business health insurance credit.

Congressional Republicans have long advocated repeal of the ACA, but have not
been very specific about what would replace it. President-elect Trump has
outlined some basic elements of a replacement plan, but it probably needs to be
fleshed out much more before enactment. It is possible, however, that the
Congress might try again to repeal the act without a detailed replacement in
place, and Trump might support that effort.

THE ESTATE AND GIFT TAX

President-elect Trump has also proposed the repeal of the federal estate and
gift tax. This is also a position long advocated by Congressional Republicans
and could be enacted in the new Congress. Trump proposed that, as part of
repeal, stepped-up-basis on death would be disallowed for taxable gains in
excess of $10 million.



PROPOSALS ON CHILD CARE

President-elect Trump has outlined a set of proposals to provide tax assistance
for child care. He would create a new above-the-line deduction for child and
dependent care expenses. He also proposes to increase the Earned Income Tax
Credit for working parents through a spending rebate. He has proposed the
creation of Dependent CARE Savings Accounts with individual contributions
matched 50 percent by government contributions.

On the business side, he has also proposed to increase the annual cap for the
business tax credit for on-site childcare, with a reduced recapture period.
While in many ways these look more like Democratic than Republican proposals,
these tax breaks are likely to garner bipartisan support in Congress.



OTHER INDIVIDUAL PROPOSALS

In order to somewhat offset the cost of his proposed tax reductions, Trump has
proposed to impose a cap on the amount of itemized deductions that could be
claimed on a tax return at $100,000 for single filers and $200,000 for joint
filers. The idea of limiting itemized deductions has been an element of tax
reform proposals, although fundamental tax reform proposals have suggested
completely eliminating or at least limiting a number of the individual itemized
deductions.

Trump has also proposed eliminating the Alternative Minimum Tax. This idea has
generally had congressional support, with the main issue here usually being what
to come up with to offset the lost revenue.



OTHER BUSINESS PROPOSALS

Trump has proposed taxing carried interests of private equity fund managers at
capital gain rates, rather than ordinary income rates. This was also one of
Hillary Clinton's proposals. This Trump proposal appears to be somewhat in
conflict with his proposal to tax business income at a 15 percent tax rate,
which would be even lower than the top capital gains tax rate. The Trump
campaign has said that they would expect to address this issue as well, but have
not provided any specific details.

President-elect Trump has proposed to eliminate certain unspecified "corporate
tax expenditures," although indicating that the Research & Development Credit
would be spared. Congressional tax reform proposals have generally included the
elimination of many corporate tax breaks as part of the cost of lowering
corporate tax rates. However, corporate lobbyists continue to pressure for
preservation of their favorite tax breaks.

He has proposed a doubling of the Code Sec. 179 small-business expensing
election to $1 million. Trump has also proposed the immediate deduction of all
new investments in a business, which has also been endorsed by congressional tax
reform/simplification advocates. This proposal would, however, seem to eliminate
the need for the Code Sec. 179 proposal. President-elect Trump has proposed to
eliminate the deduction of interest. This idea has not been part of most tax
reform proposals, but it could be considered as the Congress and the Internal
Revenue Service try to deal with the reclassification of debt as equity in
abusive situations.

On the international front, Trump has proposed a "one-time" deemed repatriation
tax of 10 percent on corporate profits of U.S. multinational corporations being
held offshore. Various versions of a repatriation tax have been proposed by both
Congressional Republicans and Democrats, sometimes as part of international tax
reform, other times to pay for infrastructure improvements. Some version of a
repatriation tax is likely to be included in any tax legislation in the new
Congress.



STATE TAX INITIATIVES

A few states had tax-related ballot initiatives. California had propositions on
the ballot to impose fees for plastic bags. Oregon had a proposal to increase
the tax on corporate sales by out-of-state businesses. Many states this year
have proposals related to marijuana. California, Massachusetts and Nevada had
approved proposals to legalize marijuana for recreational use. While not
directly a tax issue, these proposals have tended to be a revenue source for the
states that enact them. With the federal government continuing to view marijuana
as a controlled substance, these state approvals also raise federal tax issues
for marijuana businesses operating in these states.



OTHER TAX ISSUES

Congress has a number of tax legislative proposals already before it. These
include a package of tax breaks that expire at the end of 2016. Also included is
a package of retirement savings enhancements, a bill to prevent stock options
from being taxed until the stock is sold, a limit on IRS asset seizure
authority, an exclusion from tax for qualified student loan discharges for
students who have died or suffered a permanent disability, and tax breaks for
2016 flooding and hurricane victims. It is not clear if any of these will be
taken up in the lame duck session or left until early 2017.

A bill permitting employers to continue to offer health reimbursement
arrangements to their employees without penalties imposed by the Affordable Care
Act may not be needed if that act is repealed.



SUMMARY

Although the Republican position in both houses of Congress will be somewhat
weaker in the new Congress than the current Congress, they retain the majority
in both houses and are therefore likely to wait until the new Republican
administration is inaugurated in January 2017 to push for tax legislation,
rather than make any significant effort in the lame duck session.

It would be expected, however, that a Republican Congress and Republican
administration will make a significant effort at tax reform in 2017 that is
likely to include many of President-elect Trump's proposals, even if in somewhat
modified form to try to come closer to a revenue-neutral bill.

The Democrats in the Senate continue to have sufficient numbers to threaten a
filibuster; however, revenue items can often be put on a track that requires
only a simple majority for approval.

George G. Jones, JD, LL.M, is managing editor, and Mark A. Luscombe, JD, LL.M,
CPA, is principal analyst, at Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting.

URL: http://www.accountingtoday.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1039 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                          The Philadelphia Daily News

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                  WEB Edition

Giordano: Some signs Trump is backing away from campaign promises

BYLINE: By Dom Giordano

SECTION: EDITORIAL OPINION; P-com Columnists; Pg. 00

LENGTH: 700 words


EVEN THOUGH Hillary Clinton did not make history in the recent election, another
woman did. Kellyanne Conway, Donald Trump's campaign manager, became the first
woman to be victorious as a campaign manager in a presidential race. Conway is a
South Jersey gal - born in Camden - and she shared some of the secrets to her
success in an interview on Wednesday on my radio show.

It was clear Conway knew that Trump had broken through in states like
Pennsylvania, Michigan and even Wisconsin well before the election results came
rolling in. She repeatedly made the point that Trump had raised issues such as
bad trade deals, stagnating wages and problems with illegal immigration to a
level where traditional Democratic voters were able to vote for him.

We also discussed the personal attacks she faces because of her position in
aiding Trump. It's almost as if she is seen as being German propagandist Leni
Riefenstahl to Trump's Adolf Hitler. She told me she is bombarded with people
questioning her about being able to look her four young children in the eyes
after packaging Trump.

Conway and I were on opposite sides when discussing Trump's decision to back
away from his campaign promises to pursue Hillary Clinton legally on her email
server issues and scandals around the Clinton Foundation. Her rationale was that
Trump is looking to heal the country and move forward on big issues. Many Trump
supporters see this as an ominous sign that he will not fulfill other campaign
promises.

I am concerned he might not move to stop the sanctuary city policy of big cities
such as Philadelphia. Philadelphia's policy is back in the news because, as Dave
Davies at www.newsworks.org reports, according to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, Philadelphia police refused to hand an alleged child rapist who is
here illegally over to federal authorities and later released him on bail. ICE
later arrested Dominican national Josue Duran-Cortes after their own
investigation.

This insane policy by Philadelphia puts everyone at risk and is a lawless
mentality that Trump and the Congress must rein in by cutting off federal funds.
It will be very interesting to see whether visions of a lawless utopia are still
dancing in Mayor Kenney's head if federal funds are cut off in key areas.

Philadelphia also might be affected significantly by Trump's appointment of
Betsy DeVos to be the next secretary of education. DeVos is an heir to the Amway
fortune and has pushed for charter schools and school choice in Michigan. Randi
Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said, "Trump has
chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the creation of the
Department of Education." Given Weingarten's radical anti-choice positions, I
think DeVos might be a decent choice.

On the DeVos nomination, City Councilwoman Helen Gym said, "this extreme
ideologue" will be able to use her government position to advocate for more
charters, along with vouchers to send more children to private or parochial
schools.

I wonder whether the tens of thousands of Philadelphia parents on waiting lists
to get their kids in private schools will see it the same way. They recognize
the power of being able to choose a school that meets their family's needs.

DeVos also will be under fire from conservative activists because she has
supported the federal Common Core plan in the past. The objection is that these
federal standards are too intrusive and don't allow for enough local control.

So in his reversal on not prosecuting Clinton, the nomination of DeVos, some
statements of potential reversal on waterboarding and climate change treaties, I
see in Trump someone who is not a conservative but a populist who will be all
over the map in his policies.

I don't believe this be will reassuring to those who think they are bravely
mounting the resistance against the rise of another Hitler. They might even
think my analysis is an attempt to further this Hitlerian rise.

My advice is come to terms with the real issues that fueled Trump's rise, and
come up with better solutions.

Teacher-turned-talk show host Dom Giordano is heard 9 a.m. to noon weekdays on
WPHT (1210-AM). Contact him at www.domgiordano.com

@DomShow1210

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: Drew Angerer / Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1040 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                          The Philadelphia Daily News

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL Edition

Philly's Thanksgiving Day parade proved a respite from a rough year;
$util.encode.html($!item.subHeadline)

BYLINE: By Jason Laughlin; Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; P-com News; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 555 words


ON THURSDAY morning, bands, floats and balloons bobbed through downtown
Philadelphia, extending a 97-year tradition - the Thanksgiving Day parade,
America's oldest.

And boy, did the city - and, arguably, the country - need a parade.

Along the 1.4-mile route, the festivities seemed an effective salve to the raw
feelings lingering from an extraordinarily divisive presidential campaign that
exposed radical differences over how Americans think about race, gender and
religion.

Among the revelers who in spots lined JFK Boulevard three-deep were Maxine
Fredric and her 12-year-old niece, Faith Reyes, who took a train in from
Norristown.

Despite the contentious presidential election and other stresses of 2016,
Fredric, a portfolio administrator, declared it a good year.

"I'm waking up every day," she said as a passing band played "Yankee Doodle
Dandy." "I appreciate the little things."

Also watching were Alice Dale and her 20-year-old daughter, Samantha Dennis, who
shared their very different political perspectives.

"I'm thankful for everything that happened," Dale said of the election that is
sending developer and reality-TV star Donald Trump to the White House. "I'm very
hopeful."

Dennis is not.

"I'd like to gladly disagree," she said. "I don't deal with bigotry well, and I
don't deal with stupidity very well."

But they laughed about their diverse views. For the most part, they don't talk
politics, said the South Jersey natives, who now live in Wilmington, N.C., and
were excited to be in Philadelphia for the holiday.

"I feel like I'm back home," Dennis said.

The parade route began at 20th Street and JFK Boulevard and turned onto 16th
Street on its way to the Benjamin Franklin Parkway and the Philadelphia Museum
of Art.

Near a stairway leading down to the Broad Street Line, Alton May watched Santa
Claus and the end of the parade with his 7-year-old son, Nafis, on his
shoulders. It was the West Philadelphian's first trip to the parade in about a
decade.

Asked whether he felt thankful this year, he had a mixed response.

"No," he said, "because Trump is in office."

On the other hand, he said, he was able to buy a house this year.

Despite the tumultuous year, many people answered unhesitatingly that they felt
the spirit of the holiday. As balloon versions of children's book characters the
Grinch and the Very Hungry Caterpillar loomed above, parade-watchers said they
were thankful they could spend the holiday with family and friends.

"I'm just thankful for him," Washington resident Sharonda Harper said of husband
Erik, as they stood at 17th Street and JFK Boulevard. "We just got married two
months ago."

Standing away from the crowd near JFK Plaza, medical student Cara Smith of South
Philadelphia cradled her sleeping 4-month-old son, Desmond. Wrapped in blankets
and wearing a stocking cap shaped like a cooked turkey, Desmond slept as a brass
band performing Christmas music marched past.

"It's been a pretty rough year," Smith said. "My grandmother just passed away,
so I'm just happy to be with the family that's here."

Her husband, Shea O'Neill, said he was most thankful for his wife and son.
Smith's stepmother, Ann Ricksecker, thought for a moment about what she was
thankful for this year.

"We're all unanimous," she finally said, looking at the sleeping infant. "It's
all about him."

jlaughlin@phillynews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1041 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                          The Philadelphia Daily News

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                  WEB Edition

DN editorial: Stein's recount campaign could poison democratic process

SECTION: EDITORIAL OPINION; P-com Opinion; Pg. 00

LENGTH: 565 words


THE TWEETER-IN-CHIEF was busy over the weekend, ranting over a move by Jill
Stein, Green Party candidate for president, to challenge the votes in Michigan,
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania - states where Donald Trump defeated Hillary Clinton
by narrow margins.

Trump tweeted that Stein's actions were a "scam" and that he not only won the
electoral vote, but would have won the popular vote on Nov. 8 were it not for
millions of "illegal" votes cast.

He offered no proof because there is none. Clinton leads her Republican opponent
by more than 2 million votes nationwide. There is no evidence that there were
many illegal votes, let alone several million.

Trump has complained long and loud about vote fraud and "rigged elections." But
that was before he won the presidency. If he were a normal politician, it would
seem odd that he would claim to win the popular vote when there is hard evidence
he did not. But, then, the president-elect is not a normal politician. Not a
normal man, for that matter.

Trump is going with the flow of his party, though. Republicans have made claims
of voter fraud part of their brand. (The rule of thumb is: If the Republican
candidate wins, the system works fine; if a Democrat wins, it must be because of
fraud.)

What's surprising is to see that Stein - with an assist from the Clinton camp -
has picked up that cudgel to cast doubt on the validity of the totals in
Michigan, where Trump won by 10,704 votes; Wisconsin, where his margin was
22,177 votes; and Pennsylvania, which Trump won by 71,294 votes.

In Pennsylvania, she has gone to court asking it to force a recount of votes in
the state because of the possibility of fraud. Her problem is: There are no
allegations of fraud. She has no examples of fraudulent voting in the state.
What she has is a paper by a computer science professor who has written that
voting systems are vulnerable to attacks by hackers. (The same professor has
written that there is no evidence that hacking occurred in this election.)

So, Stein has no evidence of fraud, by hacking or other means, but she feels it
is imperative to conduct official (and very expensive recounts) to answer doubts
she has raised about the integrity of voting system.

For the record, Stein has said she does not believe a recount would result in a
change in the outcomes in the three states. Nor would it help her candidacy. She
got 1 percent of the popular vote nationwide on Nov. 8. She got 49,312 votes out
of 6 million cast in Pennsylvania.

We don't know whether to laugh or cry over Stein's and Trump's allegations.
Absent any credible evidence to the contrary, losing an election is not proof
that your opponent engaged in fraud. It means he got more votes. Losing a close
election is not proof of fraud or vote tampering. It means the election was
close. The history books are filled with examples of elections in which a
candidate won by one vote, or a dozen. There have even been ties.

Casting doubts on the results also casts doubt on the integrity of thousands of
voting officials - Republicans and Democrats - who work hard to make sure the
voting system functions honestly and well, often with bare-bones budgets.

As a nation, we cannot embrace the notion that all elections are rigged and
infested with fraud, that magical and mysterious forces are fixing the outcome
in advance. Such poisonous beliefs could be fatal to the notion of democracy.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1042 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 CITY-D Edition

In rights struggle, Pa. blacks had a League to stand on

SECTION: CURRENTS; P-com Opinion; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 520 words


As Philadelphians explore ways to mobilize politically in the wake of the
presidential election, consider the story of the Pennsylvania State Equal Rights
League (the League), the black-led organization undaunted by intimidation and
violence in its fight for African American rights.

Despite emancipation and the conspicuous bravery of nearly 180,000 African
American soldiers in the Union Army, Philadelphia's black communities continued
to be rankled after the Civil War by systematic segregation.

"More unmerciful in her proscription of colored men than any other city in the
Union," denounced the Christian Recorder.

Founded in New York in 1864 by Fredrick Douglass and other prominent black
leaders to "make legal equality a reality" for African Americans, the National
Equal Rights League soon sponsored state branches stretching from North Carolina
to Louisiana. The Pennsylvania chapter emerged that same year.

In Philadelphia, under the direction of athlete and activist Octavius Catto, the
League "pledged to leave no means untried to regain those rights of which we,
citizens of the United States and citizens of Pennsylvania, have been so cruelly
and unjustifiably deprived."

The organization first set its sights on the city's streetcar segregation.
Working with Thaddeus Stevens and other radical Republicans, the League
successfully lobbied Harrisburg to pass a statewide ban on the forcible eviction
of African American trolley riders.

Securing black male enfranchisement, however, remained the "all important
subject of our deliberations and united action."

In an address before a joint session of Congress in 1866, members of the League
put it plainly: "Will you, to whom we have given our money in taxes, our lives
in battle, to maintain the supremacy of law against secession and anarchy,
continue to deprive us of this dearly purchased right to the ballot?"

Through public rallies, petitions, letter-writing campaigns, and other peaceful
forms of agitation, the League fought for the passage and ratification of the
15th Amendment. This guaranteed, in part: "The right of citizens of the United
States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any
State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude."

But like the Emancipation Proclamation before it, the 15th Amendment did little
to change the facts on the ground.

"Even then, in the state's largest city, it was only under the protection of a
company of U.S. Marines . . . that black Philadelphians were able to cast their
votes unmolested by white mobs," observed historian Andrew Diemer.

Catto himself was assassinated on Election Day 1871. His likeness will soon
adorn the southwest apron of City Hall.

"The story of black citizenship rights is not, then, one of unambiguous
success," Diemer continued. "It is rather a story of constant struggle."

A struggle that persists to this day.

The latest issues of Legacies and the Pennsylvania Magazine of History &
Biography explore citizenship, ethnicity, and immigration throughout the
commonwealth's 300-plus-year existence. Visit hsp.org/Publications for more
information.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HSP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1043 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Commentary: The options for Democrats

SECTION: EDITORIAL; P-com Opinion; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 812 words


By Michael Gerson

While the challenges of the GOP - its long-term demographic difficulties, its
erratic leadership, the bitter struggle for its ideological soul - are obscured
by victory, the problems of the Democratic Party are on full display.
Republicans suffer from heart disease; Democrats have an ugly, gushing head
wound.

The losing party would be foolish to minimize the scale of its political
failure.

Hillary Clinton proved incapable of defeating a reality television host whom
more than 60 percent of Americans viewed as unfit to be president. It is perhaps
the most humiliating moment in the long history of Mr. Jefferson's party. But
the effect is more than reputational.

The Democratic candidate and her team could not protect America from a serious
risk to its ideals and institutions by an untested and unstable novice who
flirted with authoritarianism and made enough gaffes on an average Tuesday to
sink a normal presidential campaign.

Donald Trump was riding a modest electoral wave in certain parts of the country,
but it was not large enough to overwhelm a reasonably capable Democratic
candidate with a decent political strategy. Trump's vote did not burst the
levees; it barely lapped over the top of them in the industrial Midwest. The
"blue wall" was too low by just a foot or two.

But why was the election even close enough for bad strategy in Wisconsin,
Michigan, and Pennsylvania, or utter incompetence by the FBI director, to
matter?

Trump obviously benefited from extreme polarization. The proposition "anyone but
Hillary" was tested, with Republicans (and others) ultimately rallying to
"anyone." The Obama coalition - including young, minority, and college-educated
voters - did not turn out in sufficient numbers. And an appeal to racial and
ethnic resentment remains disturbingly potent in our politics - the continuing
evidence of America's original sin.

But here is the largest, long-term Democratic challenge:

It has become a provincial party. It is highly concentrated in urban areas and
clings to the coasts.

But our constitutional system puts emphasis on holding geography, particularly
in the House of Representatives and the Electoral College. It is difficult for
Democrats to prevail from isolated islands of deep blue. In 2012, President
Obama won the presidency with fewer than 700 counties out of more than 3,000 in
America - a historical low. Clinton carried a little under 500 - about 15
percent of the total.

This is another way of saying that the Democratic candidate for president can't
prevail - at least at the moment - when she receives less than 30 percent of the
vote from the white, noncollege educated Americans who live in the spaces
between the cities. Most of these voters were not examining public policy and
calculating their interests - except in the vague sense that they don't like
sending American jobs abroad and don't want anyone messing with their Social
Security. They were convinced that Trump has their back. Democrats have become
symbolically estranged from white, working-class America.

What are the Democratic options moving forward?

First, there is the Bernie Sanders option - the embrace of a leftist populism
that amounts to democratic socialism. This might also be called the Jeremy
Corbyn option, after the leftist leader of the British Labour Party who has
ideologically purified his party into political irrelevance.

Second, there is the Joe Biden option - a liberalism that makes a sustained
outreach to union members and other blue-collar workers while showing a Catholic
religious sensibility on issues of social justice.

Third, there is the option of doubling down on the proven Barack Obama option,
which requires a candidate who can excite rather than sedate the Obama-era base.

Democrats should not overlearn the lessons of a close election. Option No. 3 is
the Democratic future on the presidential level. Clinton was correct to appeal
to a slightly modified version of the Obama coalition (fewer African American
and millennial voters, but more support from Latinos and college-educated
women). She simply could not pull it off.

But for the foreseeable future, Democrats will also need a dash of No. 2,
including a more accommodating attitude toward religion and associational
rights. In this election, evangelicals and white Catholics sensed real hostility
to their institutions from law school liberalism.

There is a serious prospect, however, that Democrats will choose No. 1. There
would be many reverberations for our politics. But chiefly, America would cease
to have a center-left party and a center-right party.

Both radicalized institutions would exaggerate our national differences,
becoming the political equivalent of the hard-left and hard-right media. And the
cause of national unity would be damaged even further.

Michael Gerson is a Washington Post columnist. michaelgerson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1044 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Inquirer Editorial: There are other ways to bring about change besides
protesting

SECTION: EDITORIAL; P-com Opinion; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 518 words


Protests sprang up last week in Center City, on the Main Line, indeed across
America, as the backlash to the election of Donald Trump as president continued.

Hundreds of thousands of protesters have taken to the streets. Many are angry
and scared by Trump's derisive comments during the presidential campaign aimed
at women, minorities, and the handicapped. But the protests have also morphed
into broader grievances about police violence and the environment.

While most of the protests have been peaceful, some have turned ugly and
violent. Protesters are free to let their voices be heard, but there is no room
for violence. Demonstrators should keep in mind that there are more positive and
effective ways to channel their voices.

The first stop would be the voting booth. About 43 percent of eligible voters
did not cast ballots in this year's election. Anecdotal evidence indicates many
of the protesters did not vote or voted for third-party candidates who had no
chance of winning. Nonvoters who come out to protest are late to the debate.

Trump and his surrogates have done little to calm the anxiety that has led to
the protests, and instead have called protesters paid professionals and jobless
crybabies incited by the media. Others falsely claimed there was no backlash
after Barack Obama was elected.

In fact, after Obama was elected in 2008 there were scores of hate-related
incidents from California to Maine, including cross burnings, schoolchildren
chanting "assassinate Obama," black effigies hung from nooses, and racial
epithets scrawled on people's homes and cars.

The challenge going forward is for everyone to put aside his or her anger and
work for real change. That doesn't mean you can't speak out. Quite the opposite:
Fight to right wrongs. Stay informed and engaged. Support credible media
outlets. Call out the spread of fake and bogus news on Facebook and other social
media sites.

As citizens, support causes and individuals you believe in. Write to your local,
state. and federal elected representatives to voice your support or opposition
to proposals.

Better yet, get more involved in the political process. Most voters agreed the
country deserved better candidates on the presidential ticket. Likewise, cities
and states could use more qualified elected officials who truly represent the
interests of voters.

To that end, the local civic group Young Involved Philadelphia has been working
to increase civic engagement and empower young residents. Last week, the group
held a workshop to teach millennials how to run for office.

Before the election, only 30 people were signed up for the program. But after
the election, 275 showed up for the event. It was such a success that a second
session is in the works for next month.

There has been much debate about the political divide between red states and
blue states and cities and rural parts of the country. But more unites us than
divides us.

Getting more involved, engaged, and informed is the best way to bring about real
change in Washington, Harrisburg, and Philadelphia, or any other community that
is begging for better leadership.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1045 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Commentary: Postelection, be grateful and make peace

SECTION: EDITORIAL; P-com Opinion; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 765 words


By Marybeth Hagan

Thanksgiving couldn't have come soon enough after this recent election season.

The presidential race between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, and the divisive
identity politics that went with it, split us apart. We the People are broken
into the factions the Founding Fathers feared. To become one nation indivisible
again, we'd best be grateful.

Thankfulness for beloved family members and friends, and those who share our
political views and preferences, is easy. The same cannot always be said about
appreciating people with whom we have our differences, personal or political.
Practicing gratitude leads one to see the good in others, which leads people to
agree to disagree respectfully, a.k.a. civility.

Plus, with an attitude of gratitude, one often finds the silver lining in
adversity.

And yes, believe it or not there is a silver lining to the tumult caused by the
presidential election of 2016. It was evident everywhere I went in the days
following the election. People gathered on streets and in shops and in bars and
at churches, rather than under the cover of social media, and talked
face-to-face about the upset. There was none of the usual chatter about pursuits
of happiness like TV shows, sports, movies, restaurants or vacation spots. This
election awakened us from our stupor. As a people, we're finally focused on the
well-being of our country. We seem determined to hold our elected leaders
accountable. We're even showing signs of being patriotic.

My heart went out to a number of sincerely distressed voters with whom I spoke
after the election. Some appeared to be dazed, as if they were in a state of
shock. A few seemed fearful. One was close to tears. To their credit, these
people weren't throwing postelection temper tantrums on Narberth's main street
as demonstrators in other places did.

Still, I must admit to being somewhat bewildered by the intensity of their
disappointment. Was it because these voters, like most of the pollsters and the
press, assumed Hillary Clinton was a shoo-in for president? Or was it because
they had invested too much hope in Clinton, as if she was some sort of a female
deity? If the election had gone the other way and Trump lost, would his
supporters have been so dazed and devastated?

Life teaches us the limits to our control of its outcomes. None of us know for
sure what tomorrow will bring. This presidential election brought these truths
to light. We've been humbled. But humility can go a long way. It might even
bring more of us to our knees.

Why not model this Thanksgiving on pilgrim-style progressiveness?

The earliest settlers initiated Thanksgiving in 1621 by first thanking God. They
focused on what they had, a plentiful harvest, not on their hardships. The
pilgrims were equally thankful to the Almighty for newly found friendship with
the Wampanoag Native people, who were instrumental in the settlers' survival.
This relationship was based on mutual need. The Wampanoags were weakened by
plague due to diseases that earlier European traders brought ashore. So natives
and newcomers put aside their differences and showed one another respect.

This Thanksgiving, surely we can all agree to be grateful for "the Blessings of
Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity." When our founders composed and signed
the U.S. Constitution in 1787, they established freedoms for us that would be
dreams-come-true for souls suffering under tyrannical rulers in other lands.
Yes, we shamed ourselves in allowing the scourge of slavery onto our shores
until it was outlawed by the Thirteenth Amendment in 1865. Still, the Preamble
never promised a perfect Union. It begins, "We the People of the United States,
in Order to form a more perfect Union." With God's grace, courageous patriots
like the late Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. taught us how to peacefully strive for
further perfection in our land.

Continued efforts to form a more perfect Union will be futile if we are a nation
divided.

When the British tax-imposing Townshend Acts of 1767 created political strife,
John Dickinson, the Founding Father who was dubbed the "penman of the
Revolution," composed "The Liberty Song" to encourage the colonists. Dickinson
wrote:

Then join hand in hand, brave Americans all,By uniting we stand, by dividing we
fall;In so righteous a Cause let us hope to succeed,For Heaven approves of each
generous Deed.

Thank God the presidential election is finally behind us. Let's count our lucky
stars and stripes this Thanksgiving and make partisan peace with one another.

Marybeth Hagan is a writer in Merion Station. mbthagan@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1046 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Letters: Making Electoral College worse

SECTION: EDITORIAL; P-com Opinion; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 1204 words


Making Electoral College worseA commentary opposed scrapping the Electoral
College in favor of the direct popular election of the president ("Modest tweak
to reform the Electoral College," Monday). As an alternative, the commentary
called for awarding electoral votes by congressional district rather than the
current winner-take-all by state system we have.

As bad as our system is, this proposed solution would be far worse.

Congressional districts are not some fair set of boundaries that are drawn in
heaven. They are highly partisan, gerrymandered, and unfair. They are drawn to
ensure that the results of elections are never in doubt.

After the Pennsylvania General Assembly redrew the district boundaries in 2012,
Democratic congressional candidates got 75,000 more votes than Republican
candidates statewide. Despite this, Republicans held 13 seats, and Democrats
only five. This happened in state after state.

Under the commentary's proposal, even though President Obama won by five million
votes nationally in 2012, Mitt Romney would have been elected president. In
other words, the proposal would have the effect of fixing the presidential race
so that it is no longer competitive. Republicans would win every time. This
seems to be antidemocratic and far worse than the current system or a direct
popular vote.

|Daylin Leach, state senator (D., Montgomery and Delaware Counties), King of
Prussia, senatorleach@pasenate.com

Can't ignore gerrymanderingIt is disingenuous for a commentary to suggest the
allocation of Electoral College votes by congressional district, without
mentioning the partisan political gerrymandering that has mangled the district
boundaries in Pennsylvania and most other states. Basing Electoral College votes
on congressional districts would increase the stakes and provide even more
incentive for redistricting abuses.

Pennsylvania legislators in both parties have sponsored bills to make
redistricting the responsibility of an independent commission, for which active
politicians and lobbyists would be ineligible. The bills are dead for this
session but are expected to reappear in January. Action must begin in the
2017-18 session to change the redistricting process ahead of the 2020 census.

|Bob Warner, Philadelphia

Praying for president-electAs a New York state senator and president of the New
York Hispanic Clergy Organization, I would like to congratulate Donald Trump on
his victory.

Our pastors and churches applaud his pro-life and traditional values, his
promise to appoint people to the U.S. Supreme Court who have conservative
values, and his promise to allow pastors to speak about matters of faith without
the fear of retaliation or retribution by our government.

It is uplifting to see his efforts to unify this nation by inviting people who
disagree with him and who outwardly opposed his candidacy to meet with him,
allowing people from all walks of life to be heard. Our ministers and churches
will pray that the Lord will bless him with the wisdom and fortitude to serve
nobly and faithfully as the president of the United States of America and that
he will treat the needs of our children, senior citizens, veterans, immigrants,
poor, and needy families with compassion.

|Rev. Ruben Diaz, state senator (D., Bronx), Albany, N.Y.

Calling out Trump supportersTo the Donald Trump supporters who have been silent
about their support for the president-elect, and to those who have trumpeted
their support, we the people of the United States of America implore you to take
a stand against bigotry, hate, and intolerance. It's not political correctness -
it's human decency.

If you support Trump and are not racist, stand up for black lives. If you
support Trump and are not misogynist, stand up for women. If you support Trump
and are Christian, stand up for Muslims and people of other religions. If you
support Trump and support immigrants, stand up for Hispanics and other peoples
who have come to our country in search of a better life. If you support Trump
and you support gay rights, take a stand.

Take a stand for just one of these groups, more if you can. Humanity needs us
all.

|Whitney Schott, Jenkintown

Why pollsters got it wrongAs a physicist with a degree in applied mathematics,
it was no surprise that so many of the polls were wrong in this election.

First, human beings are inherently nonlinear and are governed in part by
emotion, which enables their creativity and was necessary for their evolutionary
survival. Humans must learn rational thinking. Thus, predicting human behavior
is more of a pseudoscience - we neither behave as robots nor always do as we're
told by the media and our "leaders."

Second, I can attest to the agonizingly slow and painful process of being
queried by a pollster.

Third, because of the incessant and almost hysterical reporting on Donald Trump,
many supporters simply didn't intimate their preference for fear of being
condemned or attacked until entering the relative security of the voting booth.

We witnessed a classic case of confirmation bias among the polling "experts,"
many of whom don't have degrees in mathematics but are paid handsomely to inject
their pseudointellectual bias into their analyses.

The saddest result of this election debacle is that a large portion of Americans
don't trust the media, our government, or polling experts, which does not bode
well for the future.

|Michael Pravica, Henderson, Nev., pravica@yahoo.com

Sessions would be a bad pickSen. Jeff Sessions as Donald Trump's nominee for
attorney general ("Session may face a fight," Nov. 18)? Another racist in the
administration - check his failed nomination to the federal bench - and to the
position charged with enforcing federal antidiscrimination laws. Another hint of
what "great again" means to the president-elect. A perfect expression of Trump's
values, but a mockery of America's.

|Stephen Ulan, Wynnewood

In 1937, President Roosevelt nominated U.S. Sen. Hugo Black of Alabama to the
U.S. Supreme Court. For a brief period during the 1920s, Black was a member of
the Ku Klux Klan.

In 1953, President Eisenhower nominated California Gov. Earl Warren to be chief
justice of the Supreme Court. In 1942, when Warren was California's attorney
general, he forcefully advocated for the internment of 120,000 Japanese
Americans.

Despite their checkered pasts, Black and Warren are remembered as liberals who
helped give American law a sharp push to the left.

Let's hope Sen. Jeff Sessions, despite his prior racist comments, is willing to
be as open- and fair-minded as Black and Warren.

|Paul L. Newman, Merion Station

McConnell changes his tuneI was moved by Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell's pleas to move on and "accept the results of the election." By moved,
I mean sickened and revolted. This is the same McConnell who, eight years ago,
when faced with the election of Barack Obama winning both a majority and the
Electoral College vote, pledged to make him a one-term president and block every
initiative. What is different now? The party in power. It would seem elections
are only valid when your party wins.

So, we move on and "accept results" only when Republicans win? Their hypocrisy
and cravenness is staggering.

|James Davis, Conshohocken

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAROLYN KASTER / AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1047 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Philly's Thanksgiving Day Parade proved a respite from a rough year

BYLINE: By Jason Laughlin; Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; P-com News; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 669 words


On Thursday morning, bands, floats, and balloons bobbed through downtown
Philadelphia, extending a 97-year tradition - the Thanksgiving Day Parade,
America's oldest.

And boy did the city - and, arguably, the country - need a parade.

Along the 1.4-mile route, the festivities seemed an effective salve to the raw
feelings lingering from an extraordinarily divisive presidential campaign that
exposed radical differences over how Americans think about race, gender, and
religion.

Among the revelers who in spots lined JFK Boulevard three-deep were Maxine
Fredric and her 12-year-old niece, Faith Reyes, who took a train in from
Norristown.

Despite the contentious presidential election and other stresses of 2016,
Fredric, a portfolio administrator, declared it a good year.

"I'm waking up every day," she said as a passing band played "Yankee Doodle
Dandy." "I appreciate the little things."

Also watching were Alice Dale and her 20-year-old daughter, Samantha Dennis, who
shared their very different political perspectives.

"I'm thankful for everything that happened," Dale said of the election that is
sending developer and reality-TV star Donald Trump to the White House. "I'm very
hopeful."

Dennis is not.

"I'd like to gladly disagree," she said. "I don't deal with bigotry well, and I
don't deal with stupidity very well."

But they laughed about their diverse views. For the most part, they don't talk
politics, said the South Jersey natives, who now live in Wilmington, N.C., and
were excited to be in Philadelphia for the holiday.

"I feel like I'm back home," Dennis said.

The parade route began at 20th Street and JFK Boulevard and turned onto 16th
Street on its way to the Benjamin Franklin Parkway and the Philadelphia Museum
of Art.

Near a stairway leading down to the Broad Street Line, Alton May watched Santa
Claus and the end of the parade with his 7-year-old son, Nafis, on his
shoulders. It was the West Philadelphian's first trip to the parade in about a
decade.

Asked whether he felt thankful this year, he had a mixed response.

"No," he said, "because Trump is in office."

On the other hand, he said, he was able to buy a house this year.

Despite the tumultuous year, many people answered unhesitatingly that they felt
the spirit of the holiday. As balloon versions of children's book characters the
Grinch and the Very Hungry Caterpillar loomed above, parade-watchers said they
were thankful they could spend the holiday with family and friends.

"I'm just thankful for him," Washington resident Sharonda Harper said of husband
Erik, as they stood at 17th Street and JFK Boulevard. "We just got married two
months ago."

Standing away from the crowd near JFK Plaza, medical student Cara Smith of South
Philadelphia cradled her sleeping 4-month-old son, Desmond. Wrapped in blankets
and wearing a stocking cap shaped like a cooked turkey, Desmond slept as a brass
band performing Christmas music marched past.

"It's been a pretty rough year," Smith said. "My grandmother just passed away,
so I'm just happy to be with the family that's here."

Her husband, Shea O'Neill, said he was most thankful for his wife and son.
Smith's stepmother, Ann Ricksecker, thought for a moment about what she was
thankful for this year.

"We're all unanimous," she finally said, looking at the sleeping infant. "It's
all about him."

jlaughlin@phillynews.com

215-854-4587

@jasmlaughlin

Revelers cheer amid police at Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/nation_world/20161124_ap_06d6cb503e5542559e545
a9b77c78caa.html

Commentary: When gathering for Thanksgiving, focus on the food

http://www.philly.com/philly/opinion/20161124_Commentary__When_gathering_for_Tha
nksgiving__focus_on_the_food.html

Freaking out about Thanksgiving conversations? Tell us about it.

http://www.philly.com/philly/blogs/real-time/Freaking-out-about-Thanksgiving-con
versations-Tell-us-about-it.html

Friends, family, turkey and touchdowns for Obamas' holiday

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/20161124_ap_550ef462e4ba471cb4dd4bf81
11244c7.html

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: ALEJANDRO A. ALVAREZ / Staff Photographer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1048 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Jill Stein raised nearly $4 million for election recount, including Pa.

BYLINE: By Mari A. Schaefer; Staff Writer

SECTION: NATIONAL; P-com News; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 616 words


Green Party candidate Jill Stein has raised nearly $4 million to pursue an
election recount in three key Rust Belt states won by Donald Trump, including
Pennsylvania.

Stein's campaign launched an online fund-raising effort Wednesday seeking $2.5
million by Friday evening. As of Thursday afternoon, just over $3.7 million had
been raised toward a newly updated goal of $4.5 million, according to a report
by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.

The funds are needed to post bonds necessary for recounts in Pennsylvania,
Wisconsin, and Michigan. The deadline for contesting Pennsylvania's election
results is Monday.

The effort follows a report, published in New York Magazine Tuesday, that some
election lawyers and computer experts suspect election returns "may have been
manipulated or hacked" in those three states.

In some areas, they detected a pattern in which Democrat Hillary Clinton fared
worse in precincts where votes were recorded electronically, without a paper
trail to confirm the digital record is correct, the Post-Gazette reported.

Philadelphia, along with two-thirds of Pennsylvania counties, uses such
machines, which experts have demonstrated can be hacked even without being
hooked up to the internet, according to the Post-Gazette.

The basis for this week's concerns, however, appears to be purely
circumstantial. One of the experts in the magazine report, University of
Michigan computer scientist J. Alex Halderman, wrote separately that machines
had "probably not" been hacked, but the only way to be sure was "to closely
examine the available physical evidence."

The Clinton campaign has not pressed for recounts, and Democrats seemed dubious
about the notion on Wednesday, according to the Post-Gazette article.

"If there were something to do here, there are a lot of us who would be jumping
on it," said Adam Bonin, a Philadelphia election-law attorney who represents
Democrats.

Bonin said that while every election has "little hitches and glitches, I haven't
seen anything which would cause me to question the results." Nor, he said, "have
I ever seen evidence that would lead me to call the machines into question. . .
. You can't just go on a fishing expedition. You have to have allegations of
specific fraud, or machines that didn't accept votes."

The deadline to file for recounts in Wisconsin is Friday, and in Michigan,
Wednesday.

"After a divisive and painful presidential race, reported hacks into voter and
party databases and individual email accounts are causing many Americans to
wonder if our election results are reliable," Stein stated on her website.
"These concerns need to be investigated before the 2016 presidential election is
certified. We deserve elections we can trust."

Carl Romanelli, the Stein campaign's Pennsylvania field coordinator, told the
Post-Gazette he wasn't aware of problems in the state.

"I haven't spoken with party representatives about complaints that may have come
in," he said. But "voter integrity is one of our huge issues, and the Stein
campaign appears to be taking the lead on making sure the public can trust its
elections."

He added: "I don't want anyone to get the impression that this is about
affecting the outcome of the election."

Trump's lead in Pennsylvania is roughly 70,000 votes.

Clinton campaign officials have not commented and were concerned the issue would
disrupt the transfer of power or cause further unrest over Trump's win,
according to NBC News.

While Trump has been silent on the recount efforts, his former campaign manager
Kellyanne Conway tweeted Thursday:

"Look who can't accept the election results Hillary Clinton Supporters Call for
Vote Recount in Battleground States."

mschaefer@phillynews.com

@MariSchaefer

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1049 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                JERSEY-C Edition

Alice Paul's burial site now has women's rights advocates 'traipsing around'

BYLINE: By Jan Hefler; Staff Writer

SECTION: SOUTH JERSEY; PC News New Jersey; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 878 words


When suffragist Alice Paul was buried in 1977 in a Quaker graveyard tucked away
in Cinnaminson, there was no marker to show where she was laid to rest.

Her only survivor was her nephew, who said he didn't want any "crazy,
women's-rights women traipsing around the family plot," said Barbara Irvine, a
founder of the Alice Paul Centennial Foundation, created to honor Paul's role in
history.

After Paul's nephew died, the foundation helped pay for a humble gravestone to
mark her resting place near a red Japanese maple in the Westfield Friends burial
ground, Irvine said. That was a decade after Paul's death.

The little-known detail stands in stark contrast to the crowd that gathered at
Paul's grave this month.

On Election Day this year, Paul's final resting place became a destination,
attracting scores of people as the sun shone brightly and then later turned into
drizzling rain. They came to pay homage to Paul for the critical role she played
in winning women's suffrage on a historic day when a woman appeared on the
ballot for the first time as a presidential candidate backed by a major party.

"There were a ton of visitors, maybe two dozen in the morning and afternoon that
I could see," said Debra Hojsak, director of advancement at Westfield Friends
School, adjacent to the burial ground. "People would take pictures and leave
flowers, and one person left a note . . . People were very emotional and were
thanking Alice Paul for the privilege of voting."

Hojsak said the schoolchildren visit the grave site each year and wear ribbon
sashes of gold, purple, and white - the colors of the suffragist movement - to
learn about Paul and the struggle to pass the 19th Amendment.

Irvine and Jean Perry, another founder of the Alice Paul Centennial Foundation,
also have held candlelight vigils at the grave site to commemorate the Nov. 14,
1917 "Night of Terror," when Paul was force-fed and tortured following a hunger
strike in a Virginia workhouse. Paul had been imprisoned after she led daily
picketing at the White House, which is credited with moving the suffragist cause
forward.

"We did a sort of reading of the trials she [Paul] suffered while in prison,"
Perry said. Later, the Centennial Foundation became the Alice Paul Institute,
and it sponsored occasional candlelight vigils and held lectures about Paul at
the graveyard.

But for many years after Paul's death, her role in the decades-long suffragist
movement was largely eclipsed by other leaders. That changed this year when the
Washington headquarters of the National Woman's Party, which she cofounded, was
designated a national monument by President Obama and her image was approved for
inclusion in a yet-to-be-redesigned $10 bill.

But her grave had not been on the public's radar until now.

Many of her ardent supporters, including Irvine, showed up at the Westfield
Friends burial ground on Election Day. "I just wanted to talk to Alice," Irvine
said, adding that she visits often in the hope of finding inspiration.

Irvine recalled how Alice Paul's nephew, Donald Paul, took legal control of her
possessions when she became elderly. He had contacted the Centennial Foundation
and the Smithsonian Institution to see if they wanted to purchase any of Alice
Paul's items. Paul had never married, and Donald Paul was her brother's son and
the only one left in the family. After his death, the Centennial Foundation and
a few of Paul's cousins chipped in and paid for the gravestone, Irvine said.

On Election Day, some visitors were seeing the grave site for the first time. "I
found a list of suffragette sites on Facebook and decided to come here today,"
Marielle Meth, a social worker from East Windsor, Mercer County, said, noting
she had never been there before. Suzanne Gili Post, a program coordinator at the
Katz Jewish Community Center and a poet from Haddonfield, came for the first
time, too. She became misty-eyed as she said "thank you" to Paul at the grave,
where bouquets were piling up.

In Rochester, N.Y., hundreds made the pilgrimage to the grave site of renowned
suffragist Susan B. Anthony. Still others gathered at sites in Philadelphia
dedicated to suffragists such as Mary Grew.

They placed their "I Voted" stickers on the gravestones of those suffragists in
New York, Philadelphia, and also in tiny Cinnaminson.

The four-acre Cinnaminson burial ground has about 1,200 gravestones including
Paul's, which is located behind the meetinghouse and close to a basketball net
set up for the schoolchildren. The Quaker burial site is also the final resting
place of Joseph Stokes, a doctor who played a role in creating an effective
measles vaccine, and Samuel Leeds Allen, inventor of the Flexible Flyer sled.

Paul was born and raised on a Quaker farmstead in Mount Laurel and attended
Moorestown Friends School, near Westfield Friends. She also went to Swarthmore
College and the University of Pennsylvania and earned multiple degrees before
she made women's suffrage her life's work.

When she died in a Moorestown nursing home at age 92, she was buried in her
family's plot in Cinnaminson along with her parents, her two brothers, and her
sister. Her sister Helen is in an unmarked grave, according to burial records.

jhefler@phillynews.com

856-779-3224 @JanHefler

www.philly.com/burlcobuzz

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1050 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                JERSEY-D Edition

Alice Paul's burial site now has women's rights advocates 'traipsing around'

BYLINE: By Jan Hefler; Staff Writer

SECTION: SOUTH JERSEY; P-com News; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 878 words


When suffragist Alice Paul was buried in 1977 in a Quaker graveyard tucked away
in Cinnaminson, there was no marker to show where she was laid to rest.

Her only survivor was her nephew, who said he didn't want any "crazy,
women's-rights women traipsing around the family plot," said Barbara Irvine, a
founder of the Alice Paul Centennial Foundation, created to honor Paul's role in
history.

After Paul's nephew died, the foundation helped pay for a humble gravestone to
mark her resting place near a red Japanese maple in the Westfield Friends burial
ground, Irvine said. That was a decade after Paul's death.

The little-known detail stands in stark contrast to the crowd that gathered at
Paul's grave this month.

On Election Day this year, Paul's final resting place became a destination,
attracting scores of people as the sun shone brightly and then later turned into
drizzling rain. They came to pay homage to Paul for the critical role she played
in winning women's suffrage on a historic day when a woman appeared on the
ballot for the first time as a presidential candidate backed by a major party.

"There were a ton of visitors, maybe two dozen in the morning and afternoon that
I could see," said Debra Hojsak, director of advancement at Westfield Friends
School, adjacent to the burial ground. "People would take pictures and leave
flowers, and one person left a note . . . People were very emotional and were
thanking Alice Paul for the privilege of voting."

Hojsak said the schoolchildren visit the grave site each year and wear ribbon
sashes of gold, purple, and white - the colors of the suffragist movement - to
learn about Paul and the struggle to pass the 19th Amendment.

Irvine and Jean Perry, another founder of the Alice Paul Centennial Foundation,
also have held candlelight vigils at the grave site to commemorate the Nov. 14,
1917 "Night of Terror," when Paul was force-fed and tortured following a hunger
strike in a Virginia workhouse. Paul had been imprisoned after she led daily
picketing at the White House, which is credited with moving the suffragist cause
forward.

"We did a sort of reading of the trials she [Paul] suffered while in prison,"
Perry said. Later, the Centennial Foundation became the Alice Paul Institute,
and it sponsored occasional candlelight vigils and held lectures about Paul at
the graveyard.

But for many years after Paul's death, her role in the decades-long suffragist
movement was largely eclipsed by other leaders. That changed this year when the
Washington headquarters of the National Woman's Party, which she cofounded, was
designated a national monument by President Obama and her image was approved for
inclusion in a yet-to-be-redesigned $10 bill.

But her grave had not been on the public's radar until now.

Many of her ardent supporters, including Irvine, showed up at the Westfield
Friends burial ground on Election Day. "I just wanted to talk to Alice," Irvine
said, adding that she visits often in the hope of finding inspiration.

Irvine recalled how Alice Paul's nephew, Donald Paul, took legal control of her
possessions when she became elderly. He had contacted the Centennial Foundation
and the Smithsonian Institution to see if they wanted to purchase any of Alice
Paul's items. Paul had never married, and Donald Paul was her brother's son and
the only one left in the family. After his death, the Centennial Foundation and
a few of Paul's cousins chipped in and paid for the gravestone, Irvine said.

On Election Day, some visitors were seeing the grave site for the first time. "I
found a list of suffragette sites on Facebook and decided to come here today,"
Marielle Meth, a social worker from East Windsor, Mercer County, said, noting
she had never been there before. Suzanne Gili Post, a program coordinator at the
Katz Jewish Community Center and a poet from Haddonfield, came for the first
time, too. She became misty-eyed as she said "thank you" to Paul at the grave,
where bouquets were piling up.

In Rochester, N.Y., hundreds made the pilgrimage to the grave site of renowned
suffragist Susan B. Anthony. Still others gathered at sites in Philadelphia
dedicated to suffragists such as Mary Grew.

They placed their "I Voted" stickers on the gravestones of those suffragists in
New York, Philadelphia, and also in tiny Cinnaminson.

The four-acre Cinnaminson burial ground has about 1,200 gravestones including
Paul's, which is located behind the meetinghouse and close to a basketball net
set up for the schoolchildren. The Quaker burial site is also the final resting
place of Joseph Stokes, a doctor who played a role in creating an effective
measles vaccine, and Samuel Leeds Allen, inventor of the Flexible Flyer sled.

Paul was born and raised on a Quaker farmstead in Mount Laurel and attended
Moorestown Friends School, near Westfield Friends. She also went to Swarthmore
College and the University of Pennsylvania and earned multiple degrees before
she made women's suffrage her life's work.

When she died in a Moorestown nursing home at age 92, she was buried in her
family's plot in Cinnaminson along with her parents, her two brothers, and her
sister. Her sister Helen is in an unmarked grave, according to burial records.

jhefler@phillynews.com

856-779-3224 @JanHefler

www.philly.com/burlcobuzz

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1051 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Trump tapping Washington, Wall Street veterans for top jobs

BYLINE: By Steve Peoples, Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, and Julie Pace; Associated
Press

SECTION: front_page; Inq Front Page; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 723 words


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump is enlisting a trio of nominees with
deep ties to Washington and Wall Street to fill out his cabinet, including
former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as secretary of the Treasury
Department.

On Tuesday, Trump also chose Georgia Rep. Tom Price to oversee the nation's
health-care system, picking a fierce Obamacare critic who has championed efforts
to privatize Medicare. And he selected another veteran Republican, Elaine Chao,
a former labor secretary and the wife of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell,
to lead the Department of Transportation.

Mnuchin's official announcement was expected as early as Wednesday, according to
a person familiar with the decision who insisted on anonymity.

Mnuchin, 53, a former executive with Goldman Sachs and a movie financier, led
Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign and become close
with the president-elect. But he has no government experience, which could prove
a hurdle in navigating the tricky politics of Washington.

If confirmed by the Senate, Mnuchin would play a central role in shaping Trump's
tax policies and infrastructure plans. He would also lead an agency tasked with
implementing international economic sanctions.

Mnuchin is expected to be joined on Trump's senior economic team by another
financier, Wilbur Ross. The billionaire investor is considered the "king of
bankruptcy" for buying beaten-down companies with the potential to deliver
profits.

Trump spent much of Tuesday in his Manhattan skyscraper, racing through meetings
with prospective administration hires as high-profile vacancies remain - none
bigger than secretary of state. He emerged in the evening for a private dinner
with former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, who is on the shortlist for the
nation's chief diplomat.

Romney spoke briefly to reporters, saying he has "increasing hope" that Trump
can lead the country to a "better future."

Price, picked to lead the Department of Health and Human Services after more
than a decade in Congress, helped craft House Speaker Paul Ryan's plan to
privatize Medicare - a position Trump opposed in the campaign.

Price's selection raised questions about the incoming president's commitment to
Medicare, among other popular entitlement programs he repeatedly vowed to
preserve before the election. The Georgia congressman led GOP efforts on Capitol
Hill to transform Medicare into a voucherlike system, a change that if enacted,
would likely dramatically reduce government spending on the health-care program
that serves an estimated 57 million people.

Trump did not address Price's position on Medicare in a statement released by
his transition team. The team did not respond to subsequent questions about it.

"Chairman Price, a renowned physician, has earned a reputation for being a
tireless problem solver and the go-to expert on health care policy, making him
the ideal choice to serve in this capacity," Trump said. "He is exceptionally
qualified to shepherd our commitment to repeal and replace Obamacare and bring
affordable and accessible health care to every American."

Trump, in a 2015 interview promoted on his campaign website, pledged not to cut
expensive entitlement programs that Republicans have fought for years to cut to
help reduce the federal deficit.

"I'm not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican. And I'm not
going to cut Medicare or Medicaid. Every other Republican's going to cut," Trump
told the Daily Signal.

He later changed his mind on Medicaid, embracing the GOP concept of turning the
program over to the states with a fixed amount of federal "block grant" funding.

Like any cabinet official, Price would carry out the wishes of the president.
And a sweeping Medicare initiative would have to go through Congress with some
Democratic support, which would be unlikely.

Like Price, Chao is well-known in Washington. She was the first Asian American
woman to serve in a president's cabinet, as labor secretary under George W.
Bush.

Her record in that post suggests she would bring a light hand to safety
enforcement as transportation secretary. Under Chao at Labor, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration didn't issue a single significant new safety
regulation for four years.

Mnuchin, Price, and Chao would require Senate confirmation.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1052 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Pa. court sets hearing for Stein recount petition

BYLINE: By Angela Couloumbis; HARRISBURG BUREAU

SECTION: NATIONAL; P-com News Presidential; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 637 words


HARRISBURG - The Green Party-backed push for a recount of Pennsylvania's
presidential election results will get its day in court.

Commonwealth Court has scheduled a hearing for 10 a.m. Monday in Harrisburg to
consider the recount effort pushed by former Green Party presidential candidate
Jill Stein, according to a court order Tuesday.

Stein's campaign helped coordinate a legal challenge this week seeking the
statewide recount, contending the Nov. 8 election was illegal and its results
inaccurate.

It cited as evidence research by computer scientists pointing to potential
hacking of electronic voting machines, as well as numerous news reports of
hacking, possibly by foreign governments, into email accounts associated with
the Democratic National Committee and the campaign chairman for Hillary Clinton.

In scheduling Monday's hearing, the court order said little about the
proceeding. But it said "a conclusive decision" on the matter must be reached by
Dec. 13, the deadline for Pennsylvania's electors to declare who wins the
state's 20 electoral votes.

The recount petition was filed Monday on behalf of at least 100 Pennsylvania
voters.

Election-law experts said they expect lawyers for Stein's campaign will need to
produce concrete evidence of election irregularities to bolster their case for a
recount.

"I would expect that the court, in order to hold this up, will need to see more
than what was contained in their pleading," said one, Kathleen Jones Goldman, a
Buchanan, Ingersoll & Rooney lawyer who chairs the Pittsburgh chapter of the
Republican National Lawyers Association but has no role in this case.

Stein has raised upward of $6 million to finance recount efforts in three key
states - Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan - that sealed President-elect
Donald Trump's victory over Clinton. A Wisconsin recount could begin Thursday.

Clinton lost by less than 100,000 votes in all three states, which have a recent
history of backing Democrats.

Republicans have decried the effort in Pennsylvania as an act of desperation by
a failed campaign. They have also promised to challenge any recount efforts.

Pedro Cortes, who as Pennsylvania secretary of state serves as the state's top
election officer, has said repeatedly that there has been no evidence of voter
irregularities on Election Day.

Besides the Commonwealth Court petition, Stein's campaign is helping organize
recount efforts at the precinct level in at least a half-dozen counties across
the state.

A spokesman for Stein's campaign said Tuesday that such requests have focused on
six of the state's vote-rich counties, including Philadelphia, Montgomery,
Bucks, and Allegheny. It will be up to judges and elections officials in those
counties to act on the petitions.

In all, 260 precinct-level recount challenges have been filed, the campaign
said, with that number expected to rise. Pennsylvania has 9,163 voting
precincts.

acouloumbis@phillynews.com

717-787-5934

@AngelasInk

Details about election recount request in Pennsylvania

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/20161129_ap_9c0e5bf7a1aa4073a05b73b38
8d80a18.html

Inquirer Editorial: A recount is needed to make sure the system works

http://www.philly.com/philly/opinion/20161129_Inquirer_Editorial__A_recount_is_n
eeded_to_make_sure_the_system_works.html

Stein campaign files Pennsylvania recount suit

http://www.philly.com/philly/blogs/real-time/Despite-successful-fundraising-effo
rt-recount-of-Pennsylvania-remains-difficult.html

Jill Stein raises over $5 million for election recount, including Pa.

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/20161125_Jill_Stein_raised_nearly__4_million_f
or_election_recount__including_Pa_.html

AP FACT CHECK: Trump won presidency but lost popular vote

http://www.philly.com/philly/wires/ap/news/nation/washington/20161129_ap_541f84a
b25dd4d46a99178bdaca3194f.html

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: WIN McNAMEE / Getty Images, File

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1053 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 CITY-D Edition

The Infowars presidency

BYLINE: By Dana Milbank

SECTION: EDITORIAL; P-com Opinion; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 834 words


"Report: Three Million Votes in Presidential Election Cast by Illegal Aliens;
Trump may have won popular vote."

- Infowars, website of conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, Nov. 14

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."

- President-elect Trump, Nov. 27

We learned last week that President-elect Trump has been turning away his
intelligence briefers, leaving the tedious task of learning about
national-security threats to his understudy, Vice President-elect Pence.

So where is Trump getting his information? Well, now we know.

On Sunday, Trump tweeted out the wild allegations that "millions of people"
voted illegally for his opponent. He also tweeted that there was "serious voter
fraud" in three states that went for Hillary Clinton, "so why isn't the media
reporting on this?"

The media wasn't reporting on this because it's a load of hooey. But one "media"
outlet has been "reporting" the groundless allegations, and it's one that Trump
relied on frequently during the campaign: Alex Jones's Infowars, the radio and
Internet home of the grassy-knoll crowd.

For two weeks before Trump made his allegations, Jones had been alleging this
very thing, saying there was a "wall of fraud" and that at least "five states
were stolen" by Clinton. Jones alleged that Trump "clearly won the popular
vote," asserting that in addition to 3 million illegal immigrants who voted, 4
million dead people voted.

Trump, with his mixture of the incendiary and the fanciful, invented the
"Infowars campaign." Now comes the Infowars presidency. Let's see what else is
being promoted by the outlet where the next leader of the free world gets his
news:

"Pizzagate Is Real: Something Is Going On, But What?" Infowars reports,
asserting that "high-level Washington D.C. predatory pedophiles" are
communicating via "symbols" on the menu of Comet Ping Pong, a pizza place in
Northwest Washington. "Notice the symbol of the ping-pong paddles and its clever
resemblance to the FBI documents' symbol for child love," Infowars reports.

Right! And aliens from outer space have landed in Florida - news Infowars is
also currently breaking.

"Was Florida Fireball a UFO?" Infowars asks, noting, "A fireball shot through
the Earth's atmosphere at 11 p.m. on Nov. 23" and citing "social media" for the
UFO bit.

The well-informed consumers of Infowars also know that at the moment the
"Whereabouts of Julian Assange Remain a Mystery," since the election and
WikiLeaks wants people "to stop requesting proof of life."

Infowars listeners and readers know, as well, that requested recounts in three
states are an attempt by the Green Party "to push the 2016 election into the
hands of Congress." Somewhat contradictorily, this effort also means there's a
"Democrat Counter-Coup Against Trump in Progress." Jones warns that this is "a
real threat and [George] Soros is behind it," part of a "soft civil war."

Jones' rants would be funny if the soon-to-be most powerful man in the world
didn't rely so heavily on them.

Trump, the New York Times reported, called Jones after the election to thank him
for his support. Trump has been on the Jones show and praised the host's
"amazing reputation"; Trump adviser Roger Stone is an Infowars regular.

Trump has echoed Jones' allegations that climate change is a myth, that
President Obama wasn't born in America, that Muslims in New Jersey celebrated on
9/11, that Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia was murdered, that Clinton used
drugs before a debate, that "globalists" (read: prominent Jews) are trying to
take over America, that vaccines cause autism, and that Ted Cruz's father was
involved in the John F. Kennedy assassination. Jones, who says he advises Trump
privately, boasts that Trump repeats his ideas "word for word."

As the Right Wing Watch website has documented, Jones has alleged that the U.S.
government was responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks (Jones posted an old video
Monday in which Trump appeared to suggest that aircraft alone couldn't have
brought down the towers), the Oklahoma City bombings, and mass shootings such as
Sandy Hook. Jones has said that "chemtrails" from airplanes spread a "weaponized
flu," that juice boxes are part of a chemical-warfare operation to make children
gay, that Justin Bieber is brainwashing children to create an American police
state, that Obama murdered publisher Andrew Breitbart, that an "alien force not
of this world" is targeting Trump, that intergalactic shape-shifting reptilian
humanoids secretly control the world, and, of course, that water fluoridation is
mass mind control.

Rest assured, fellow Americans: President Trump will deliver us from fluoride,
juice boxes, outer-space reptiles, and the 7 million dead people and foreigners
who vote in our elections. Less clear is whether he'll protect us from the real
threats his intelligence briefers would tell him about - if he'd let them in.

Dana Milbank is a Washington Post columnist. @Milbank

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1054 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Trump says he's leaving businesses to avoid conflicts

BYLINE: By Catherine Lucey; Associated Press

SECTION: front_page; Inq Front Page; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 721 words


NEW YORK - President-elect Donald Trump declared Wednesday he will leave his
business empire behind to focus on his presidency. But the prospect that he
could simply shift more control to three of his adult children looked too cozy
to some business-ethics specialists who suggest the arrangement could bring
unprecedented conflicts of interest into the Oval Office.

Trump announced in a series of early morning tweets that he would leave his
"great business," adding: "While I am not mandated to do this under the law, I
feel it is visually important, as president, to in no way have a conflict of
interest with my various businesses."

Trump provided no details, though he said legal documents were being prepared.
He previously had said he'd leave his business operations to his three elder
children - Donald Jr., Eric, and Ivanka.

Asked if the tweets indicated plans to move the businesses to the children,
Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway said Wednesday, "It appears that way."

"The three adult children who do already work in the corporation are expected to
continue in those roles and in fact increase their responsibilities in those
roles," Conway said.

Ethics experts have pushed for Trump to fully exit the ownership of his
businesses using a blind trust or equivalent arrangement.

"Otherwise he will have a personal financial interest in his businesses that
will sometimes conflict with the public interest and constantly raise
questions," Norman Eisen, President Obama's chief ethics lawyer, and Richard
Painter, who held the same post for President George W. Bush, said in a joint
statement. The laws are generally loose for presidents regarding their
businesses except when it comes to ties to or gifts from foreign governments.

All 16 Democratic members of House Judiciary Committee wrote to Chairman Bob
Goodlatte (R., Va.) to request hearings to examine conflicts-of-interest and
ethics provisions that may apply to Trump.

Trump spent much of Wednesday conducting meetings in his Manhattan high-rise.
His pick for secretary of state remains up in the air, though aides say he has
narrowed his choices to four. One contender, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney, dined with him Tuesday.

Trump has moved forward with other cabinet selections, choosing former Goldman
Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as Treasury secretary and billionaire investor
Wilbur Ross for Commerce.

Mnuchin, 53, led Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign,
but he has no government experience. If confirmed by the Senate, he would play a
central role in shaping Trump's tax policies and infrastructure plans. He would
also lead an agency tasked with implementing international economic sanctions.

Mnuchin would follow in the tradition of two previous Treasury secretaries who
worked at the Goldman Sachs investment firm. During the campaign, Trump
repeatedly criticized Hillary Clinton's ties to Wall Street banks and hit her
for paid speeches at Goldman Sachs.

Arriving at Trump Tower Wednesday, Mnuchin said the administration planned "the
most significant middle income tax cut since Reagan." He also called for
lowering corporate taxes to encourage companies to stay in the United States.

Meanwhile, Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence, the outgoing Indiana
governor, planned an event Thursday in Indiana in connection with an
announcement that Carrier Corp. planned to keep nearly 1,000 jobs in the state
instead of moving them to Mexico.

Details of the agreement were unclear. Trump spent much of his campaign pledging
to keep companies like Carrier from moving jobs out of the U.S., but he also
dismissed tax incentives and favorable financing deals often used by state
officials to keep major employers home.

Trump's sprawling business empire is unprecedented for a modern sitting
president, as is the complexity and opaqueness of his holdings. He refused to
release his taxes during the campaign, citing an ongoing audit, and will be
under no legal obligation to do so in the White House.

Trump owns golf clubs, office towers, and other properties in several countries.
He holds ownership stakes in more than 500 companies. He has struck licensing
deals for use of his name on hotels and other buildings around the world and has
been landing new business in the Middle East, India, and South America.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1055 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Inquirer Editorial: Fake news has become a threat to American democracy

SECTION: EDITORIAL; P-com Opinion; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 527 words


More than 200 years ago, Thomas Jefferson wrote, "If a nation expects to be
ignorant and free in a state of civilization, it expects what never was and
never will be." If there was ever a time when those words ring true, it is now.

Most people probably don't know that in the months leading to the presidential
election, the 20 top-performing fake stories on Facebook outperformed the 20 top
stories from verifiable news outlets. That's according to an analysis by
BuzzFeed. Fake stories included Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton
sold weapons to ISIS and that Pope Francis endorsed Republican Donald Trump. As
absurd as they may be, many believed the stories.

More unsettling though is that young people, the future of the American
democracy, seem just as confused as their elders. Although they are the most
technically agile generation, they're also more likely to be tricked because
they're new at finding credible news sources.

A new Stanford University study found middle school students couldn't tell an
advertisement from a news story and that college and high school students were
easily duped by a public relations stunt, mistakenly believing an opinionated
webpage was sponsored by a nonpartisan think tank.

Researchers concluded: "Young people's abilities to reason about the information
on the internet can be summed up in one word: bleak."

But it's not all bleak. Glimmers of hope come from area universities, from
Stockton to West Chester, where professors are teaching students how to sift the
fake from the real news, staff writer Jonathan Lai reported.

Stanford has designed a curriculum for secondary school students on how to
evaluate primary information sources. It's been downloaded 3.5 million times and
is used by a few school districts. More districts should teach such critical
thinking skills in all grades to reach the broadest number of future voters.

Today's youth are coming of age in an era when the new Oxford Dictionary's word
of the year is post-truth, defined as "relating to or denoting circumstances in
which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than
appeals to emotion and personal belief."

Students should learn the difference between opinion and straight news and how
to find reputable sources from newspapers, digital sites and broadcast news
stations with reporting staffs. All of these outlets make mistakes at times, but
the best among them readily admit errors because their primary goal is to
provide accurate information. They cite sources so consumers can learn more,
determine motives, or easily verify information. High standards are rare on the
internet, but essential to maintaining the democracy. Without common agreement
on the facts, there is little hope our problems can be identified and solved.

Jefferson could not have anticipated the internet age but he presciently warned
that: "The functionaries of every government have propensities to command at
will the liberty and property of their constituents. There is no safe deposit
for these but with the people themselves; nor can they be safe with them without
information."

Maybe he should have said factual information.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1056 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Montco judge rejects presidential-vote recount request

BYLINE: By Laura McCrystal; Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; P-com News Presidential; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 855 words


A Montgomery County Court judge rejected a petition Wednesday to recanvass votes
in some of the county's precincts, turning down a request by Green Party
presidential candidate Jill Stein's campaign, which is seeking a recount of
votes in Pennsylvania.

Judge Bernard A. Moore dismissed the petitions for recounts in 72 of the 425
precincts at the end of a brief hearing Wednesday afternoon, offering no reason
for his ruling.

The petitions were part of an effort by Stein's campaign to seek a statewide
recount. The campaign filed a petition in Commonwealth Court that is scheduled
for consideration Monday. Voters also have filed petitions seeking recounts in
counties around the state.

In Philadelphia, the Board of Elections announced it would meet Thursday morning
to review petitions for recounts in 82 of its 1,686 divisions and determine
which divisions would be reexamined.

Some top Democrats and Hillary Clinton supporters, meanwhile, suggested that a
recount is a waste of resources.

"Believe me, if there was anything I could do to make Hillary Clinton the next
president of the United States, I would," said former Gov. Ed Rendell, a
longtime supporter. "But this is a big waste of time."

U.S. Sen. Bob Casey, a Democrat, also said he does not expect the results to
change.

"People are free to pursue a recount, but my focus is on the work that needs to
be done in remainder of this Congress," he said.

In Montgomery County on Wednesday, a solicitor for the Election Board and
attorneys for President-elect Donald Trump and the state Republican Party
opposed the Green Party's petitions, each of which was signed by three voters.
They called the recount request a "fishing expedition" and asked the judge to
reject it, based in part on a technicality: The petitioners did not file $50
cash with each petition, as required under state law.

Ilann Maazel, an attorney for Stein's campaign, said the 72 Montgomery County
petitions were filed with a fee of $269.50 each, as required by the
Prothonotary's Office, which should have been more than enough to cover any cash
requirement for recounts.

Maazel said a recanvassing of votes and forensic examination of voting machines
in the county would be important because machines are "vulnerable to malware"
and are easier to hack than an iPhone. There has been an "enormous effort to
interfere with American elections," he said, citing the hacking of Democratic
National Committee emails. He told the judge that the campaign had forensic
experts ready to begin examining voting machines immediately for possible
hacking if their request was granted.

Senior Assistant County Solicitor Nicole Forzato argued that the request for a
recount was based on speculation and that recounts cannot be conducted as
"fishing expeditions."

"Those machines can't be hacked," she said, adding that Montgomery County's
voting machines are not connected to the internet and that she could offer an
expert who could testify about the matter.

Lawrence Tabas, an attorney for Trump's campaign and general counsel for the
state Republican Party, said that petitioners should not be permitted to
cherry-pick precincts for recounts.

"It would insult the term 'Hail Mary' to even say that's what it is," Tabas said
of the recount efforts.

Moore, a Republican senior judge, ruled from the bench. While Maazel criticized
Republican Party lawyers for opposing the recount petition, Montgomery County's
administration is controlled by Democrats and the county's solicitor also
opposed it.

Trump defeated Clinton in Pennsylvania by about 71,000 votes.

Maazel said after the hearing that he would meet with his team and determine
whether to appeal. He said he expects recount requests in some other counties
will be granted, and he is preparing for the hearing in Commonwealth Court on
Monday.

In an announcement of its Thursday morning meeting, the Philadelphia Board of
Elections said it was prepared to begin a recount immediately after examining
the petitions.

A Chester County spokeswoman said Wednesday that the county was still reviewing
petitions it received for recounts in 139 of its 228 precincts.

Stein knows she would not become president as a result of a recount, but wants
to "to get to the truth, Maazel said. "She wants to make sure that every vote
was counted accurately."

lmccrystal@philly.com

610-313-8116

@LMcCrystal

Staff writers Michaelle Bond, Chris Brennan, and Jonathan Tamari contributed to
this article.

This article contains information form the Associated Press.

Stein makes Michigan third state for presidential recount

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/presidential/20161130_ap_b4a3525d46d0
43098a035f454d819c58.html

Rendell: Stein recount effort 'a big waste of time'

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/presidential/20161130_ap_Ed_Rendell_C
linton_recount_waste_of_time.html

Details about election recount request in Pennsylvania

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/20161129_ap_9c0e5bf7a1aa4073a05b73b38
8d80a18.html

Pa. court sets hearing for Stein recount petition

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/presidential/20161130_Pa__court_sets_
hearing_for_Stein_recount_petition.html

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: Jim Young / Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1057 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  WEB Edition

Commentary: Democrats need a new RFK

BYLINE: By Larry Tye

SECTION: WEB; P-com Opinion; Pg. 00

LENGTH: 1054 words


Here's an idea for beleaguered Democrats looking for a way out of their
postelection wilderness: Look back to a Democratic icon of half a century ago
who was on the cusp of uniting precisely those angry working-class whites who
rallied to Donald Trump with Hillary Clinton's coalition of minorities and
liberals.

The Robert F. Kennedy who ran for president in 1968 was a racial healer, a
tribune for the dispossessed, and an uncommon optimist in an age of political
distrust.

"Each time a man stands up for an ideal," Bobby reminded us, "he sends forth a
tiny ripple of hope, and crossing each other from a million different centers of
energy and daring, those ripples build a current which can sweep down the
mightiest walls of oppression and resistance."

No wonder audiences swooned. And his words seem even more resonant in this
looming Era of Trump.

The first key to Bobby's broad appeal was that our favorite liberal began life
on the other side of the ideological chasm. He was nurtured on the rightist
orthodoxies of his dynasty-building father and he kick-started his public career
as counsel to the left-baiting Sen. Joseph McCarthy. That younger RFK was a
bare-knuckled political operative who masterminded his brother's
whatever-it-takes bids for senator and president. As attorney general, Kennedy
approved FBI wiretaps of Martin Luther King Jr., whom he never trusted or liked.
Even guerrilla warfare was in his tool kit: Bobby masterminded cloak-and-dagger
operations against Communist Cuba that included plotting the elimination of
Fidel Castro. His steely conservatism made him an idol to a young Rudolph
Giuliani and younger Bill O'Reilly and Karl Rove. It also ensured that
blue-collar whites stuck with him even as he moved leftward.

The upshot: In his first contested presidential primary, in Indiana, Bobby won
the seven largest counties where the racial-backlash candidate George Wallace
had done best in 1964 (at the same time he scored a crushing 85 percent of the
votes in African American districts). He did better still in Nebraska, which had
even fewer blacks and more farmers. All of which is why Richard Nixon was so
nervous about facing off against another Kennedy in November, and why
contemporary Democrats should worry less about ideological purity and more about
finding someone with Bobby's populist passion.

Lesson two for today's hyperpartisan politics is the way Sen. Bobby Kennedy
fashioned bold bipartisan solutions to nagging problems like rebuilding the
Brooklyn neighborhood of Bedford-Stuyvesant, America's biggest ghetto.
Washington would pay for training unemployed adults, constructing a cultural
complex, and other classic liberal initiatives. Tax breaks would lure big
business to build industrial plants and shopping centers, an idea that drew
raves from the conservative standard-bearer William F. Buckley Jr. And borrowing
an approach from the New Left protest movement, local residents would exercise
unprecedented self-governance. "We are striking out in new directions," the New
York senator said, "perhaps without map or compass to guide us." Half Che
Guevara, half Niccol&ograve; Machiavelli, Bobby was a shaker-upper dedicated to
the art of the possible.

It doesn't take much imagination to know where Bobby would have stood on Trump.
As a Harvard undergraduate, Kennedy took on the anti-Semitic demagogue Father
Leonard Feeney. As attorney general, he stood down Gov. Wallace, who vowed to
block the schoolhouse door to black students seeking admission to the University
of Alabama. The only figure who ranked ahead of Jimmy Hoffa and J. Edgar Hoover
on Bobby's most-hated list was Roy Cohn, the young McCarthy
prot&eacute;g&eacute; who, as an old man, served as a political mentor to the
young Donald Trump.

The truest key to Bobby's political success was his authenticity. Over the
course of his 82-day campaign for president, Bobby defied people's prototypes of
pandering politicians. He knew how issues like crime could be used as a wedge
between blacks and whites, poor and rich. So he made sure that every speech on
crime included a call for justice, and that what he said to chambers of commerce
differed in the sequence but not the elements from what he said in the slums. He
told college kids everywhere he went that they could change the world, so why
weren't they?

It happened again at a luncheon of Civitans, a men's service club. As his
audience chewed on Salisbury steaks, he took the requisite questions on gun
control and daylight saving time. Then he turned to his biggest issue -
"American children, starving in America" - and asked, "Do you know, there are
more rats than people in New York City?" Hearing guffaws, this senator who was
kept up nights by images of the hungry children he'd met in the Mississippi
Delta grew grim: "Don't . . . laugh." Thomas Congdon Jr., an editor at the
Saturday Evening Post, was struck by what he witnessed: "He was telling them
precisely the opposite of what they wanted to hear." It was demagoguery in
reverse.

What Bobby accomplished in 1968 could be a beacon for 2016, if the progressive
opposition is listening. America was as riven then as it is today, and as
tempted by divisive demagogues. The Cold War and New Deal seemed archaic to the
generation of the Thaw and the New Left. Race riots were igniting the cities and
overseas tensions were widening the split between parents and children. There
was no national consensus anymore - but there were few figures in American
politics more able and determined to build bridges between the alienated and the
mainstream than Bobby, who had lived on both sides. He'd laid claim to a rare
piece of political ground as a pragmatic idealist, which was the same terrain
JFK had hoped to plow. While some remained skeptical, others were dazzled by the
possibilities of a standard-bearer with that blend of tenaciousness and
gentleness.

"One of the reasons, I suspect, that some people are puzzled by Senator Kennedy
is that he is a tough-minded man with a tender heart," said Sen. George
McGovern, who stood with Bobby against both hunger in America and U.S.
involvement in Vietnam. "He is, to borrow Dr. King's fitting description of the
good life, 'a creative synthesis of opposites.' "

Larry Tye is the author of "Bobby Kennedy: The Making of a Liberal Icon."
larrytye@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: EDWARD J. FREEMAN / File Photograph

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1058 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Inquirer Editorial: Fake news has become a threat to American democracy

SECTION: EDITORIAL; P-com Opinion; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 529 words


More than 200 years ago, Thomas Jefferson wrote, "If a nation expects to be
ignorant and free in a state of civilization, it expects what never was and
never will be." If there was ever a time when those words ring true, it is now.

Most people probably don't know that in the months leading to the presidential
election, the 20 top-performing fake stories on Facebook outperformed the 20 top
stories from verifiable news outlets. That's according to an analysis by
BuzzFeed. Fake stories included Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton
sold weapons to ISIS and that Pope Francis endorsed Republican Donald Trump. As
absurd as they may be, many believed the stories. Signe Wilkinson

More unsettling though is that young people, the future of the American
democracy, seem just as confused as their elders. Although they are the most
technically agile generation, they're also more likely to be tricked because
they're new at finding credible news sources.

A new Stanford University study found middle school students couldn't tell an
advertisement from a news story and that college and high school students were
easily duped by a public relations stunt, mistakenly believing an opinionated
webpage was sponsored by a nonpartisan think tank.

Researchers concluded: "Young people's abilities to reason about the information
on the internet can be summed up in one word: bleak."

But it's not all bleak. Glimmers of hope come from area universities, from
Stockton to West Chester, where professors are teaching students how to sift the
fake from the real news, staff writer Jonathan Lai reported.

Stanford has designed a curriculum for secondary school students on how to
evaluate primary information sources. It's been downloaded 3.5 million times and
is used by a few school districts. More districts should teach such critical
thinking skills in all grades to reach the broadest number of future voters.

Today's youth are coming of age in an era when the new Oxford Dictionary's word
of the year is post-truth, defined as "relating to or denoting circumstances in
which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than
appeals to emotion and personal belief."

Students should learn the difference between opinion and straight news and how
to find reputable sources from newspapers, digital sites and broadcast news
stations with reporting staffs. All of these outlets make mistakes at times, but
the best among them readily admit errors because their primary goal is to
provide accurate information. They cite sources so consumers can learn more,
determine motives, or easily verify information. High standards are rare on the
internet, but essential to maintaining the democracy. Without common agreement
on the facts, there is little hope our problems can be identified and solved.

Jefferson could not have anticipated the internet age but he presciently warned
that: "The functionaries of every government have propensities to command at
will the liberty and property of their constituents. There is no safe deposit
for these but with the people themselves; nor can they be safe with them without
information."

Maybe he should have said factual information.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: REUTERS/Regis Duvignau/Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1059 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Commentary: For voters, fantasy candidate trumped reality

SECTION: EDITORIAL; P-com Opinion; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 746 words


By Lawrence D. Blum

I am a psychoanalyst, and my patients have taught me something about the recent
presidential election that the pundits are not talking about: the political
parties are gendered. The Republican party is masculine, and the Democratic
party is feminine.

A young gay lawyer talked with wonder about the fact that he used to try to be a
loyal member of the Republican party, despite its hostility toward gay rights.
He felt that by adhering to the GOP, with its embrace of guns, violence, and
economic self-interest, he would bolster his then-tenuous sense of masculinity.

A professor from Mexico told me that Latinas voted for Donald Trump in
surprising numbers, given his efforts to alienate them. She immediately
suggested an explanation: In the Hispanic macho culture in which she grew up,
women find self-important, macho men attractive, even when the women know it's
just bluster. Trump, she pointed out, represents the party of self-aggrandizing
men, who figuratively wave their genitalia around for others to see.

Hearing my patients' inner thoughts leads me to a conclusion that as a
psychoanalyst I should perhaps have anticipated. Along with the many other
important factors that influence voters (the economy, the environment, civil
rights, immigration, etc.), there is the phallus, and the advantage goes to
whomever appears to possess one. It's only a fantasy? No matter, it's an
influential one.

Recognizing that the GOP is the party of masculinity leads to consideration of
the Democratic party as the feminine party. The human unconscious has no
hesitation about gender stereotyping, and the description fits. The Democratic
party has been much more interested in taking care of others, a traditionally
more feminine concern, than has the GOP. It is the party that has advocated for
health insurance, parental leave, unemployment insurance, Social Security, and
food stamps - the party of the welfare state, the giving mother.

A great deal of data suggests that this largesse is much appreciated by most
Americans, as long as it is going to people they see as being like themselves.
If it benefits people of color or immigrants, however, many white Americans
react as though they are older siblings watching favors being showered upon the
inferior, undeserving younger siblings of the American family. They become
furious with an unfair, irresponsible mother, represented by the Democratic
party. (Republican-driven welfare programs for corporations seem to be immune to
this sort of criticism.)

Phallic power can be attributed to women as well as men. For example, Britain's
Margaret Thatcher and Germany's Angela Merkel both became popular heads of
state; it is no coincidence that both were perceived to be tough women, "iron
ladies." But Hillary Clinton did not run as an "iron lady." She failed to
convince voters that she would wave a magic wand for their collective benefit.
For many, her perceived lack of anger and fight, her skilled neutrality, felt
disappointing, suggesting the possession of no magic at all. Nor did she draw on
the traditional emotional strength of the Democratic party, as she did not
succeed in convincing voters that she would be a loving, giving mother who would
take care of them. No wishful, hopeful fantasy was conveyed - just careful
attention to reality.

When faced with threat, anxiety, and uncertainty, people want the benefit of
phallic magic. In our shared, vital, fantasy world not having or receiving it
leaves us in a sorry state. For that reason, it seems clear that many voters
were willing to forgive Donald Trump his remarkable (and abusive) phallic
excesses in the hope of benefiting from his presumed phallic magic.

There is a broader lesson to be learned from this election. Issues may be
important. Reality may be important. But reality seldom trumps fantasy. If the
Democrats want to improve their chances in the next election, they will need to
pay more attention to voter psychology, especially to unconscious feelings and
fantasies.

The party that has the most immediate connection to voter emotion, and
participates most skillfully in voter fantasy, has a tremendous advantage. We
voters may be adults, but we are also irrational children, fervently hoping the
Wizard of Oz will be real.

Lawrence D. Blum, M.D., is a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst in private practice
in Philadelphia. He teaches at the Psychoanalytic Center of Philadelphia and at
the University of Pennsylvania. ldb@lawrenceblum.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1060 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Letters: Obama's successes will be a tough act for Trump to follow

SECTION: EDITORIAL; P-com Opinion; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 587 words


Nation better because of ObamaI was disheartened by the Nov. 28 editorial
cartoon by Dave Granlund depicting two wrecking balls labeled "Trump" and "GOP
Congress" about to figuratively demolish the Obama White House legacy. But on
further reflection, I realized that much of President Obama's legacy is
irrefutable and indestructible. When he took office in 2009, the Dow was below
8000; two of the big-three auto makers were preparing to file for bankruptcy;
and unemployment was almost 8 percent. As Obama leaves office, the Dow is
closing in on 20,000; the big-three auto makers are on solid footing; and the
unemployment rate is 4.9 percent.

In 2009, we were in the midst of a seemingly endless war in Iraq, which cost
thousands of U.S. military and Iraqi civilian lives. Today, we have assumed an
advisory role in Iraq. More Americans are covered by health insurance than at
any time in our nation's history. But by far the most significant aspect of the
Obama legacy is having brought Osama bin Laden to justice with the guidance and
advice of then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. In spite of vile comments
regarding our president, Donald Trump has a very tough act to follow.

|Chris Butto, Bryn Mawr, chris.butto@gmail.comDemocrats can't point fingersSince
the Democrats are railing about the systemic unfairness of the Electoral College
and the system in general being flawed, let them show by example. Eliminate the
super delegates in their presidential nomination system and let the people
decide who the Democratic nominee will be, instead of a bunch of political
insiders. Let all primaries be open to all the people of a state. Stop filing
lawsuits to keep independents off the ballot. Stop using donations from
Hollywood stars to run TV ads in Pennsylvania in an attempt to have Pennsylvania
residents vote the way Hollywood wants.

Hillary Clinton decided that the little states and little people didn't matter.
They were "deplorable." If the Democrats had their way, there would be a new
Electoral College composed of Wall Street and Hollywood millionaires. But the
Democrats won't do a thing. Both parties are content with taking turns at
running things and taking care of their friends when it's their turn. They care
little about the country.

|John F Belzner, West Chester, jfbelzner@aol.comCity streets are far from
safeThe Vision Zero task force charged with improving traffic safety must
address the habits of drivers, pedestrians, and bicyclists alike, in addition to
street design ("The road to ending car carnage," Nov. 25). In a single day
driving through Philadelphia streets, I was frightened by a driver running a red
light behind a pedestrian who was already halfway across the street; a
pedestrian in dark clothes crossing against the light at night without even
looking up from his phone; and a couple of young boys doing wheelies in front of
my car (also at night). An effective campaign to improve behavior and enforce
driving laws is a needed complement.

|Ina Asher, Merion Station, lasher88@hotmail.comDon't ask me to rest
assuredRegarding State Rep. Kate Harper's letter ("The system will protect us,"
Nov. 22) trying to assure us we have nothing to fear from a Trump presidency
because we are a government of laws, and not of men: Slavery was legal. Jim Crow
laws were legal. Using prisoners as slaves is still legal. The internment of
American citizens of Japanese and German ancestry was legal.

Forgive me if I am not reassured.

|Jules Mermelstein, Dresher, jules.mermelstein@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI /AFP / Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1061 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Philly allows recount, rejects forensic audit of voting machines

BYLINE: By Chris Brennan; Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; P-com News Politics; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 559 words


The Philadelphia city commissioners have agreed to recount some ballots cast in
the city, as requested by Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein, but
rejected a forensic audit of how those voting machines work.

The commissioners, in a brief meeting Thursday, agreed to start recounting on
Friday ballots in 75 divisions after Stein's campaign filed at least three
affidavits for each division from voters there asking for a recount.

They rejected requests for seven other divisions. Philadelphia has 1,686 voting
divisions.

Ilann Maazel, an attorney for Stein's campaign, told the commissioners the state
Election Code allows for an examination of the machines. Citing examples of
hacking of elections computer systems in Illinois and Arizona, along with the
Democratic National Committee's emails, he said a forensic audit of
Philadelphia's voting machine software was the only way to determine whether
they had been hacked.

"To examine means to look inside," Maazel said.

Lawrence Tabas, general counsel for the Pennsylvania Republican Party, countered
that Stein's campaign had an opportunity for a public inspection of the city's
voting machines before the election and chose not to attend.

Tabas cited an Oct. 20 statement from Pennsylvania Secretary of State Pedro
Cortes, a Democrat, who said the state's "voting systems are secure" and the
machines were not connected to the internet or each other.

"There is no opportunity to hack these machines," Tabas said. "There is no
opportunity to corrupt them."

Stein's campaign has not offered proof of election tampering, instead relying on
affidavits from computer scientists who put forward the theory that voting
machines are vulnerable to hacking.

Tabas also accused the Stein campaign of "cherry-picking" some divisions for
recounts.

Maazel insisted Stein would support a full recount of every ballot.

Stein won 6,486 votes in Philadelphia, or 0.95 percent of the ballots cast. She
won 0.82 percent of the vote in Pennsylvania and 1 percent nationwide.

Republican nominee Donald Trump defeated Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in
Pennsylvania by 1.1 percent, a key victory in his election as the next
president.

A judge in Montgomery County on Wednesday rejected a request from Stein to
recount ballots in 72 of 425 precincts there.

Stein is also pursuing recounts in other Pennsylvania counties and in several
other states.

In Bucks County, a judge will hear arguments Tuesday in Doylestown on whether to
grant a recount of votes in 24 of the county's 304 precincts.

Stein's campaign also filed a petition Monday in Commonwealth Court seeking a
judicial order for a recount. That petition will have a hearing in Harrisburg on
Monday.

Tabas, after Thursday's hearing in Philadelphia, predicted Stein would fail.

"They are simply doing this for purposes to delay the inauguration of the next
president because they're not happy with the outcome," Tabas said.

brennac@phillynews.com

215-854-5973

@ByChrisBrennan

Staff writer Caitlin McCabe contributed to this article.

Montco judge rejects presidential-vote recount request

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/presidential/20161201_Montco_judge_re
jects_presidential-vote_recount_request.html

Pa. court sets hearing for Stein recount petition

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/presidential/20161130_Pa__court_sets_
hearing_for_Stein_recount_petition.html

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: WIN McNAMEE / Getty Images, File

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1062 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Philadelphia starts an election recount of 4 percent of divisions

BYLINE: By Claudia Vargas; Staff Writer

SECTION: PHILADELPHIA; P-com News Politics; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 718 words


Some snapped pictures, others watched intently, as an official recount of 75
Philadelphia voting divisions took place Friday afternoon at the city's massive
voting machine warehouse in Nicetown.

The recount of 4 percent of the city's 1,686 divisions was a result of a
campaign launched by Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein in counties
and states throughout the country.

The Philadelphia city commissioners, who make up the Board of Elections, agreed
to recount ballots in the 75 divisions, in each of which there were at least
three affidavits from voters asking for a recount. They rejected the request for
a forensic audit of the machines' software.

The recount will continue Sunday morning at the commissioners' Front and Spring
Garden Street offices. Representatives of each party will be invited to see a
recount of the provisional, absentee, overseas, and military ballots filed in
the 75 divisions.

On Friday, Board of Elections employees broke the representatives from the
Democratic, Green, and Republican Parties into three groups of about six or
seven to go through the machines. Each group got 25 divisions.

As they went from machine to machine, an employee would print out that machine's
voting receipt, which showed every vote made on it. The party representatives
stood and watched. Some took pictures and videos. The groups later
cross-referenced every receipt with the machine's cartridge.

But what Stein supporters really wanted was the forensic audit.

"The electronic result and the paper result come from the same source. So this
is like wanting to get a second opinion and going back to the same doctor," said
Rich Garella, a South Philadelphia Stein supporter who filled out an affidavit
to get the recount.

Stein won 6,486 votes in Philadelphia, or 0.95 percent of the ballots cast. She
won 0.82 percent of the vote in Pennsylvania and 1 percent nationwide.

President-elect Donald Trump, the Republican candidate, defeated Democratic
nominee Hillary Clinton in Pennsylvania by 1.1 percentage points.

The 75 divisions overwhelmingly supported Clinton. That didn't matter to
Garella. His concern is the integrity of the machines, he said.

"It's not more or less important to look at a place where Clinton did well or
Trump did well or Stein did well," Garella said. "All the votes are going in one
basket for the whole state. This is why this is a statewide effort."

Green Party officials have said that they have testimony from computer
scientists that voting machines are vulnerable to hacking.

The city commissioners have said that the machines are not connected to the
internet. Regardless, they note, there is nothing in the election code that
dictates forensic audits.

"They are asking for something we don't do," Commissioner Lisa Deeley said
Friday. "They just can't get hacked. They can't." Deeley said the machines do
not have WiFi or any way to be connected to the internet.

Representatives from the Republican Party sided with the commissioners, saying
the machines could not be hacked.

"It's very standard stuff. No machine malfunctions, no difficulty printing," Tom
Stoner, a local Republican, said. "We don't believe there will be any
anomalies."

Nevertheless, he said the recount was "fair game."

"People have the right to check," he said.

As the groups made their way through the dozens of rows of beige voting
machines, Christmas music played through the loudspeakers.

Board of Elections employees were cleaning out machines that weren't part of the
recount, refolding the curtains and tucking them away until the next election.

cvargas@phillynews.com

215-854-5520 @InqCVargas

Trump, backers ask courts to halt or block 3 state recounts

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/presidential/20161202_ap_d0b5ceb090e4
4e34bf0d7665ddd188b4.html

Philly allows recount, rejects forensic audit of voting machines

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/20161202_Philly_allows_recount__rejec
ts_forensic_audit_of_voting_machines.html

Montco judge rejects presidential-vote recount request

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/presidential/20161201_Montco_judge_re
jects_presidential-vote_recount_request.html

Pa. court sets hearing for Stein recount petition

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/presidential/20161130_Pa__court_sets_
hearing_for_Stein_recount_petition.html

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: Jessica Griffin / Staff Photographer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1063 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Green party campaign drops statewide recount effort in Pa.

BYLINE: By Caitlin McCabe; Staff Writer

SECTION: NATIONAL; P-com News Presidential; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 907 words


Former Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein withdrew her statewide
recount effort in Pennsylvania on Saturday after a Commonwealth Court judge
mandated that the 100 voters who brought the suit on the campaign's behalf post
a $1 million bond to press on with the challenge.

In court documents filed ending the petition shortly before 5 p.m., an attorney
for the Stein campaign wrote: "Petitioners are regular citizens of ordinary
means. They cannot afford to post the $1,000,000 bond required by the Court."

The abrupt halt to the campaign's strategy comes less than one week after Stein
asked a Pennsylvania court to approve a statewide recount, contending the Nov. 8
election was "illegal" and the results inaccurate.

Still, according to statement issued on Stein's Facebook page just before
midnight Saturday, a lawyer for the Stein recount effort indicated the fight in
Pennsylvania is not over. Beyond a second recount effort in the state - a
county-by-county attempt - that is still alive, Stein's attorney said the
campaign will file a petition in federal court Monday, "demanding a statewide
recount on constitutional grounds."

Stein will hold a news conference about the Pennsylvania recount Monday at 10
a.m. outside Trump Tower in New York.

In pursuing the recount in Commonwealth court, the campaign cited research from
computer scientists suggesting that possible irregularities with electronic
voting machines could have made the election vulnerable to hackers. Stein's
campaign has hoped a recount in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan could
overturn the results in three key swing states that historically back Democrats
for president but elected Donald Trump.

In Pennsylvania, the statewide recount request was filed last Monday by at least
100 voters, as required by Pennsylvania law, and was backed by the Stein
campaign. No residents were named.

On Friday, Commonwealth Court President Judge Mary Hannah Leavitt ordered that
the $1 million be paid by this Monday.

"The judge's outrageous demand that voters pay such an exorbitant figure is a
shameful, unacceptable barrier to democratic participation," Stein said in a
statement Saturday. "This is yet another sign that Pennsylvania's antiquated
election law is stacked against voters."

After the lawsuit was withdrawn Saturday afternoon, hope for at least a partial
recount in Pennsylvania remained, as Stein's county-by-county recount effort
will continue, said Lawrence Otter, an attorney for the Stein campaign who filed
court documents Saturday.

In a separate effort, the campaign had hoped voters in Pennsylvania precincts
would submit petitions to their local election boards asking for recounts. The
process required three voters in each precinct to make the petition. Locally,
petitions were filed in Philadelphia, Bucks, Montgomery, and Delaware Counties,
Otter said - efforts that have been met with mixed success.

Last week, Philadelphia's commissioners agreed to recount ballots in 75 of the
city's more than 1,600 divisions, but rejected a forensic audit of how the
voting machines worked. Judges in Bucks and Delaware Counties are expected to
hold hearings on the matter this week, Otter said.

A request for recounts in 72 of Montgomery County's precincts was rejected by a
judge last week. A partial recount in Allegheny County, which includes
Pittsburgh, will take place Monday.

Together, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin - all of which voted Democrat in
the last two presidential elections - carry enough electoral votes to flip the
election. But so far, the state's top election official, Pedro Cortes, has said
there was "no evidence whatsoever" of voting irregularities.

Trump beat Clinton by about 49,500 votes, a gap that narrowed this week by about
20,000 votes after results were updated.

Stein's recount efforts have faced fierce pushback from Trump's team, which
filed complaints last week in the three states to halt the recount efforts. The
discontinuance in Pennsylvania is "a recognition that their election contest was
completely without merit," Lawrence Tabas, lead counsel for Trump in the state,
said Saturday.

To fund the recounts, Stein last month established an online fund-raising drive,
which by Saturday night had reached nearly $7 million. In Wisconsin, Stein was
required to pay nearly $3.5 million for the recount, which began Thursday.

In Michigan, a statewide recount is slated to proceed. The state's Board of
State Canvassers deadlocked 2-2 Friday on Trump's request to reject the recount,
meaning a recount will occur unless the courts step in to stop it.

A hearing for the recount had been scheduled in state court Monday. That has now
been canceled.

cmccabe@phillynews.com

610-313-8113@mccabe_caitlin

Yes, you can blame millennials in Pa. and elsewhere for Clinton's loss

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/presidential/Yes-you-can-blame-millen
nials-for-Hillary-Clintons-loss.html

Philadelphia starts an election recount of 4 percent of divisions

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/20161203_Philadelphia_starts_an_elect
ion_recount_of_4_percent_of.html

Philly allows recount, rejects forensic audit of voting machines

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/20161202_Philly_allows_recount__rejec
ts_forensic_audit_of_voting_machines.html

Montco judge rejects presidential-vote recount request

http://www.philly.com/philly/news/politics/presidential/20161201_Montco_judge_re
jects_presidential-vote_recount_request.html

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: REUTERS/Jim Young

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1064 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Their View;
The 'fake news' dilemma

SECTION: IL OPINION; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 794 words


As if the avalanche of misleading political advertisements wasn't bad enough,
internet users were subjected this year to a surge in supposed news stories
about the presidential race that were even less truthful than the 30-second
spots aired by Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.

These included items claiming that Pope Francis had endorsed Trump, that Hillary
Clinton sold weapons to Islamic State and that an FBI agent investigating
Clinton's emails was killed in a mysterious murder-suicide.

This sort of thing goes beyond the complaint on the right that the mainstream
media favored Clinton by publishing far more stories critical of Trump, or the
complaint from the left that Trump received uncritical saturation coverage. The
sites in question were circulating stories that they knew weren't true, at times
aided by bots that created huge fake audiences on social media.

When surveys by Pew Research Center find that 62 percent of U.S. adults get at
least some of their news from social media, and 20 percent of social-media users
say things they read online have changed their views on an issue or candidate,
the electorate is vulnerable to a disinformation campaign. By Buzzfeed's count,
the 20 most popular fake-news stories in the last three months of the campaign
were shared more often on Facebook than the top 20 stories from leading
mainstream news sites. Nearly 90 percent of the fake-news stories were pro-Trump
or anti-Clinton, Buzzfeed noted.

Some observers argue that the public's receptivity to fake news is a sign that
we live in a "post-factual" society, with people who are mainly interested in
information that comports with their preexisting notions. People have been
dividing into information tribes with competing echo chambers at least as long
as there have been blatantly partisan talk radio stations and cable news
channels. Nor is it new when politicians -- and particularly Republicans -- try
to drive people away from established news sources by accusing them of bias.

What's different now is the extent of the polarization, and how vulnerable the
system is to manipulation. With a vast and growing number of information
sources, people don't automatically discredit a website or a publisher just
because they've never heard of it. And even the smallest publisher has free
access to the global distribution services supplied by search engines and social
media networks. Although those are welcome developments for free speech and
diverse viewpoints, they also are a boon to those whose mission is to peddle
flat-out falsehoods.

Here's another crucial difference: Unlike cable news networks, newspapers or
local broadcasters, the most powerful distributors of content today -- Facebook
and Google search -- do not want to be seen as media companies. They style
themselves as open platforms, not content gatekeepers.

But that description is not quite accurate; both use technology and, in some
cases, human editors to shape what they present to the public. And neither is
willing to explain exactly how they do so, other than to say their goal is to
deliver the most relevant results possible to individual users. As a
consequence, Facebook prioritizes the material that users see in their "news
feeds," elevating some of their friends' posts over others. Similarly, Google
pushes some search results higher than others.

Executives at both companies said this week that they are working on the problem
of fake news, and already have measures in place to cut off the flow of
advertising dollars to fake-news sites. Yet Facebook arguably made the problem
worse this year, when it dumped the editors who helped curate its list of
"trending" stories in favor of a more algorithm-driven approach. The change was
made after former editors said their colleagues had favored mainstream news
sources over alternative and conservative sites. But the new approach allowed
bogus news items to taint the trending list.

It's tempting to say that these platform operators should do more to weed out
bad information. But as Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg noted, telling the
difference between fact, opinion and fiction is a tricky task. Good reporters
can get things wrong, after all.

The fact that Facebook and Google are so powerful is reason enough not to want
them to become censors. That doesn't mean they can't do more to identify and
flag content that readers should question. They can also make it harder for
publishers to game the system in ways that increase the audience for their
content. Ultimately, though, their technologies rely on their users to elevate
credible material over fantasies. And as long as people cling to the latter over
the former, they're holding the door open to disinformation campaigns and
manipulation.

--Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1065 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

An Election Night celebration to remember for Kent Gray

SECTION: IL OPINION; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1171 words


K ENT GRAY has been to Election Night events for four Republican presidential
nominees, but this year marked the one where people could really celebrate.

The Leland Grove attorney, who was Illinois state director of now
President-elect DONALD TRUMP' s campaign in the primary season, had worked for
BOB DOLE and helped arrange Dole's Washington, D.C., Election Night gathering in
1996. He was on the staff of 2008 vice presidential candidate SARAH PALIN, so
was at JOHN McCAIN's event in Arizona that year. And he was in Austin, Texas,
when GEORGE W. BUSH was running against Democrat AL GORE; Bush's win wouldn't be
known for weeks after the 2000 election because of the near-tie in Florida.

"So it was fantastic to be there in the room," Gray said of being there when
Trump made his acceptance speech at a New York hotel the early morning of Nov.
9.

"It was the smallest Election Night that I ever attended, by far," he added,
estimating that, not counting the press corps, about 800 people were there.

Gray, an elected Lincoln Land Community College trustee, headed the winning
Trump primary campaigns in Illinois and Missouri. Gray resigned from the
campaign days before the primary, he said, due to a divorce-related court order,
later rescinded, that he had to be out of his house within days. He said things
got worked out and he's still in the house. He also said internal polling showed
Trump would do "fine" in Illinois. That proved true, as Trump ended up with 38.8
percent of the Illinois primary vote, topping second-place finisher TED CRUZ,
who had 30.3 percent.

Gray said that while he has talked to Trump's team about "a couple spots" in the
new administration, "I've got two young kids in Springfield. I mean there might
be something that entices me, but it's a little hard to see at this point
exactly what would prompt me to take a cut in pay and go out to Washington,
D.C., that's probably got three times the cost of living of Springfield."

"If the least that happens is that we get a great president in Donald Trump, I'm
thrilled," he said.

Long-standing plans

State Rep. SUE SCHERER, D-Decatur, whose 96th House District includes part of
Springfield, was listed as having an excused absence from the veto session days
last week.

Scherer said via email that she "was not able to change long-standing plans"
that were "made in conjunction with a number of individuals almost a year before
the veto schedule was announced." She did not describe those plans.

Rauner donations

The 2015 tax return for the Rauner Family Foundation shows that significant
contributions were made to educational institutions.

When Gov. BRUCE and DIANA RAUNER recently released their 2015 state and federal
tax returns, and that of their foundation, it came with a statement that the
couple and their foundation made charitable contributions of more than $11.6
million.

The largest contribution was $500,000 to Harvard, where the governor got a
master's in business administration. Next in line was $400,000 to the Ounce of
Prevention Fund, a Chicago-based group that keys on early childhood education
and also has a Springfield office. Diana Rauner is president of the
organization.

Donations of $250,000 each went to Dartmouth, the governor's alma mater, and
Yale, where Diana Rauner graduated.

Donations of $100,000 went to National Louis University in Wheeling,
Chicago-based Teach for America and the Robert R. McCormick Foundation in
Chicago.

And $50,000 donations went to the Noble Network of Charter Schools in Chicago
and the Roger Baldwin Foundation, a sister organization of the American Civil
Liberties Union that works for causes including reproductive rights.

Lemont-based Turning Point USA, a nonprofit conservative activist group that
seeks to mobilize students who believe in free markets and limited government,
also got $50,000. The Rauner foundation had given the group $100,000 in 2014.

CHARLIE KIRK, founder and executive director of the group, was on SEAN HANNITY's
Fox network program Thursday, where he and the host talked about anti-Trump
sentiment, including angst, that broke out on some campuses after the election.

"You know the political correctness wave that swept across the country?" Kirk
said on that show. "Donald Trump was a direct response to that. ... Colleges
have become a place where they want everyone to look different, but think the
same."

"And how dare someone," Kirk said sarcastically, "challenge the liberal
orthodoxy on our college campuses. I think this deserves to be mocked, quite
frankly."

Rauner has called Kirk a "superstar" and had said, as recounted in a 2014
Turning Point newsletter, that "his vision of America is the right vision for
America."

Assets of the Rauner foundation were at $43,910 as of the end of 2015. The
couple's personal federal tax return showed adjusted gross income of $187.6
million, with nearly $170 million from investments. The Rauners also paid $43.3
million in federal income tax and $6.9 million in Illinois income tax.

Asked recently in Springfield how he was able to get his income to triple from
2014, when it was about $58.3 million, Rauner laughed and said, "Maybe it's a
good thing that I don't have anything do to with my investments anymore, because
they seem to be doing better."

He said they are in a blind trust, and he has "no involvement."

"I think probably what happened is a lot of investments were sold," Rauner said.
"I don't have a salary. I've made investments, and I think a lot of them were
sold."

Moving north

The bad news is that the Springfield press corps is losing a couple of
knowledgeable folks. The good news is that they're staying in the business.

AMANDA VINICKY, statehouse bureau chief for Illinois Public Radio, including NPR
Illinois, 91.9 FM in Springfield, as of Jan. 3 will be a full-time correspondent
for Chicago Tonight, a nightly newsmagazine on WTTW-TV, Chicago's PBS station.
The move north also brings her closer to her hometown of La Grange. She's been
at NPR Illinois for a decade.

And MIKE RIOPELL, who has been the Arlington Heights-based Daily Herald's
Springfield presence for six years, begins this week as an editor on the
politics team of the Chicago Tribune. Riopell earlier spent four years as a
statehouse reporter for Lee Enterprises.

Riopell recently has also been a group editor of several Southern Illinois
papers purchased by Paddock publications, owners of the Daily Herald.

Vinicky has been one of the rotating hosts of the weekly CapitolView TV show on
Network Knowledge, WSEC-TV, and Riopell did a touching story about his parents'
house in Washington, Illinois, being destroyed by the 2013 tornado. Luckily, his
folks weren't hurt, as they were visiting Riopell's family in Springfield at the
time.

Riopell and Vinicky were both statehouse interns in 2005 through the Public
Affairs Reporting master's degree program at the University of Illinois
Springfield. Good luck to both of them.

--Contact Bernard Schoenburg: bernard.schoenburg@sj-r.com, 788-1540,
twitter.com/bschoenburg.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1066 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

BYLINE: Rose Amon Springfield Douglas K. Turner Springfield Tom Kennedy
Springfield

SECTION: IL OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 524 words


Two miracles: Cubs and Trump

God is not dead and miracles do happen. Cubs overcame the impossible to win and
Donald TR(I)UMPH(ED) against all odds.

Believe you me, countless prayerful knees were bent begging God to dispel the
curse of over a hundred years. And so it rained, and washed away the curse, and
the Cubs won.

The Pope told voters in the U.S. to vote with their conscience, and so the
voters did, and they prevailed.

For myself, I believe that anyone who works hard for a living is entitled to
receive due rewards. Trump worked for every penny he got and said he won't take
his salary as president. He does not need it. The White House is a downgrade
from his imperial residence. He loves his country and was driven to make it
great again. He also abhors abortion. Anyone who believes that it is a woman's
right, please witness an abortion being performed.

Trump is no saint, but somehow he saw a vision. A vision to right wrong, to make
America great again and respected by civilized nations.

Miracles do happen and God is providing. Believe.

Unprecedented protests against president-elect

The demonstrations since the election of Donald J. Trump as our next president
are unprecedented.

Our Constitution states the winner of the Electoral College in a presidential
election is our president. President-elect Trump achieved this so he is entitled
to the presidency.

Certainly after the last two presidential elections, millions were devastated by
President Barack Obama's victories, but no one took to the streets to protest
against him or his policies. There was no disruption of traffic, no fights with
police and no destruction of property.

I believe the anti-Trump demonstrators fall into three categories: 1) sore
losers, 2) sincere anarchists who reject our democracy, our Constitution and the
rule of law, and 3) professional agitators funded by people like billionaire
George Soros whose goal is to destabilize our democracy in order to further
their globalist objectives. It is feared that this last group will not rest in
their attacks on the Trump Presidency due to his anti-globalist stand.

The fury of the former two groups was fueled by the media's and Secretary
Hillary Clinton's hysterical misrepresentation of Trump and his supporters.

As of this writing the first shooting at a demonstration was reported.
Ironically the shooter was not a police officer or a "racist" Trump supporter.
The shooter was an angry man who was in traffic being blocked by demonstrators
and who shot one of them.

We must value our democracy and our peace and tranquility enough to give
President-elect Trump a chance to govern.

Thank you.

Comments in letter didn't help move the country forward

I take issue with Thomas Perkinton's letter, "More candidates needed for
down-ballot races" in the Nov. 15 edition that characterized "poorly educated
white men" as dumb.

Education and intelligence are not the same. His comment is as racist as
characterizing poorly educated black and Hispanic men as dumb. Both these groups
voted heavily for Clinton.

Such comments directed at groups are racist and deplorable, and do not move the
country forward.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1067 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Politics;
GOP sweep heightens anxiety for transgender Americans

BYLINE: David Crary; AP National Writer

SECTION: IL FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1096 words


NEW YORK -- Anxiety is high among many transgender Americans after the sweeping
Republican election victory. They fear stronger resistance to their push for
civil-rights protections, including broader access to public restrooms, and
wonder if their newly won right to serve openly in the military is in jeopardy.

Transgender people "are concerned for their safety, survival and legal rights in
the coming years," said Chase Strangio, an attorney with the American Civil
Liberties Union who often works on transgender issues.

Among the specific concerns:

n Many transgender people expect that Republican President-elect Donald Trump's
administration will abandon or weaken the efforts by President Barack Obama's
administration to enable transgender students to use the bathrooms of their
choice at public schools. Republican officials in numerous states have opposed
that campaign, saying schools should not be required to let such students use
bathrooms or locker rooms based on their gender identity.

n There are fears that more GOP-governed states will approve legislation
limiting transgender rights and will reject proposals to expand such rights.

n There's uncertainty about the Pentagon's recently adopted policy of allowing
transgender people to serve openly in the military. Some conservative groups,
including the Family Research Council and the Center for Military Readiness,
have suggested a reversal of the policy. So has GOP Rep. Duncan Hunter of
California, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee.

"The question needs to be asked: Does this make our military more effective and
more lethal?" said Hunter's chief of staff, Joe Kasper. "It's hard to see how."

Mara Keisling, executive director of the National Center for Transgender
Equality, was cautiously optimistic that the military's new policy would
survive.

"I don't know if anything will happen, but we're certainly alert and ready to
fight," she said. "Hopefully, good, smart people will prevail."

More broadly, transgender-rights advocates have been dealing with an outpouring
of dismay and apprehension in their community.

Keisling's organization, for example, held a call-in session Friday to provide
advice to transgender people worried that changing their gender designation on
federal and state identity documents might become more difficult in the new
political environment.

During the presidential campaign, Trump sent mixed signals about his approach to
transgender rights.

At one point, he said transgender celebrity Caitlyn Jenner could use whatever
bathroom she preferred in one of his luxury buildings -- an offer Jenner later
took up at the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Manhattan. However, Trump
has declined to repudiate a divisive North Carolina law that restricts
transgender people's bathroom access. He has said such policy decisions should
be left up to the states.

Since his election, Trump has not publicly addressed transgender issues, though
he did ease some concerns among gays and lesbians by saying that he considered
same-sex marriage to be settled law. Transgender-rights activists remain wary,
depicting Vice President-elect Mike Pence and some members of Trump's transition
team as hostile to their causes.

Jennifer Finney Boylan, a transgender author who teaches at Barnard College in
New York, said in an email that she fears conservatives will now seek to
"isolate and marginalize transgender people" and make them feel separated from
the broader gay rights movement.

On the state level, transgender activists have taken heart that Republican North
Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory, who incurred sharp criticism for signing a bill
limiting transgender people's bathroom access, is trailing slightly in
still-incomplete returns. Prospects for repealing the bill are uncertain,
however, given continued GOP control of the legislature, and a similar bill
already has been introduced in Texas.

Republican Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, who is president of the state Senate,
listed what he called a "Women's Privacy Act" as one of his top 10 priorities
when the legislature reconvenes in January.

"A majority of Texans in both political parties and in every ethnic and
demographic group believe that women and girls should have privacy and safety in
their restrooms, showers and locker rooms," Patrick said. "Unfortunately,
legislation is necessary to assure that they do."

Another proposed Texas bill would overturn nondiscrimination ordinances
protecting LGBT people at the local level. Dallas, Austin and Fort Worth are
among the cities with such protections.

Shannon Minter, a transgender man who is legal director of the San
Francisco-based National Center for Lesbian Rights, said many transgender
civil-rights gains of recent years are based on federal statutes and court
precedents that cannot be quickly undone. However, he expressed dismay at the
willingness of some conservatives to target transgender people with so-called
bathroom bills.

"Like others in our country, transgender people want to be able to live safely,
to be able to work and have access to decent health care, and to be able to live
with dignity," Minter said in an email. "We don't want to be in the crosshairs
of a trumped-up culture war."

Sunday's Transgender Day of Remembrance, an annual commemoration of transgender
people who have been killed in bias-related homicides, added to the community's
somber mood. According to the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, 23
transgender or gender-fluid people have been homicide victims in the U.S. so far
this year, one more than the coalition tallied in all of 2015. Nearly all were
black or Latina transgender women.

Some activists fear that violence could worsen in the aftermath of the election.

Dana Beyer, executive director of Gender Rights Maryland, said she is
encouraging transgender people, and the parents of transgender youths, to move
to "safe spaces" -- cities and states with legal protections and a supportive
culture.

Dru Levasseur, Transgender Rights Project director for the LGBT-rights group
Lambda Legal, said postelection worries were particularly intense among
transgender youths and immigrants, and transgender people of color.

"I've heard from many people that they feel scared and alone, but they are not
alone, especially now," Levasseur said. "There is an army of smart lawyers and
activists who are committed to protecting them and fighting for them."

According to a recent estimate by the Williams Institute at the UCLA School of
Law, there are about 1.4 million transgender adults in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1068 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Guest Column;
The Democratic Party's bad bet

SECTION: IL OPINION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 634 words


In the most important presidential "change" election since 1932, 97 percent of
Democratic Party's superdelegates placed a bet to win on their most unpopular
presidential candidate in modern history. With the confidence of a preacher
holding four aces, they bet on voters selecting Hillary Clinton ... and promised
hell and damnation if voters didn't agree.

It didn't work.

Forcing voters to choose between Trump and Clinton didn't pay off. CNN exit
polling reported, when voters held unfavorable opinions about both candidates --
the "Lesser of Two Evils" choice -- Trump won these voters by 20 points, with
Trump getting 49 percent to Clinton's 29 percent. Trump also won the independent
vote by 6 percent.

Thomas Frank, the author of "What's the matter with Kansas," a book explaining
why voters sometimes vote Republican and against their economic interests, was
concerned last spring about the coming 2016 election.

In an interview with In These Times, he expressed bewilderment about
Hillary-style Democrats: "They really think that they've got this thing in the
bag. And I don't just mean her versus Bernie. I mean the Democratic Party
winning the presidency for the rest of our lives. From here to eternity. ...
They could nominate anybody and they would win."

Frank's new book, "Listen Liberal," pins their exuberant expectations on
decisions made in the 1980s when party insiders switched from the "People's
Party" to the party of rich professional elites. The Democratic Leadership
Council was an operator turning that switch.

Bill Clinton, serving as DLC chairman, used his position to power up his
corporate fundraising efforts and agenda, which led to his 1992 presidential
victory. After his election, Clinton rammed NAFTA through the Democratic Party
majority Congress in 1993 and gave communist China most-favored nation trading
status upon leaving office in 2000. The result was that Americans lost 3 million
manufacturing jobs from 2000 to 2004, with 5.8 million fewer by 2010, and today,
median household income is lower than 1999.

How did switching from the People's Party base turn out for Democratic
candidates other than Clinton?

Not so good.

Starting with President Clinton's first off-year election in 1994 through 2016,
Democrats have lost 69 Congressional House members and find themselves at the
lowest membership since 1929. Before 1994, Democrats held House majorities in 60
of the previous 64 years -- and after 1994, in only four of the next 24 years.
In the U.S. Senate, Democrats are at 48 seats, down eight seats from 1992.

After the 2016 election, Republicans hold 32 governorships and 984 more state
legislators, and control 32 state legislatures, versus 13 for Democrats, which
results in 26 completely controlled Republican state governments to the six by
the Democrats.

In other words, since Democrats switched from the People's Party to the elite
professionals political base more than 20 years ago, the Republicans have won
the Political Quinfecta -- Congress, presidency, state legislatures,
governorships and the Supreme Court.

This year's superdelegates presidential candidate won newspaper editorial
boards, by a 57-to-2 margin; even Republican ex-presidents refused their party's
candidate while conservative columnist George Will, disgusted with his choices,
resigned from the Republican Party.

Obviously, voters didn't get the elite's message. Trump won.

Which leaves this question: Will the Democratic Party's politically elite
superdelegates get the message and return to the People's Party, or will they
continue their losing streak by making bad bets on elite professional voters and
stiffing the working class?

-- Bill Edley is a 35-year Democratic party activist and former Illinois
Democratic state representative and DNC Delegate. He lives in Springfield.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1069 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Thank you to those working the Thanksgiving holiday

SECTION: IL OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 841 words


Thank you to those working during the Thanksgiving holiday

Memorial Health System would like to recognize everyone who is working this
Thanksgiving to serve our community.

From the physicians, nurses and all who care for patients in hospitals, nursing
homes and other health care facilities; to the EMTs, firefighters and police
officers who are on duty and on call to help in an emergency; to those who keep
restaurants, gas stations and stores open for those who may be traveling or
celebrating out -- thank you for giving up your holiday to take good care of
others. We appreciate you every day but are especially grateful to you and your
families today.

Wishing everyone a happy and healthy Thanksgiving.

Ed Curtis

President and CEO of Memorial Health System

Giving thanks for the blessings in life

On this Thanksgiving Day, I would like to pause and think about innumerable
blessings I along with my family have been showered upon. I am thankful for the
abundance of blessings which made our life so enjoyable and very interesting.

I am thankful to my parents because whatever I have achieved is because of them.
I acknowledge that they have sacrificed a lot for me. I very much appreciate for
everything they have done for me and I thank them from the bottom of my heart
for everything they have done for me.

On this Thanksgiving Day I must say "thank you" to our veterans. You are great!
You are the best! I ask our government to take care of our veterans better than
they are taking care of other useless people called politicians. Because our
veterans deserve lot better benefits than what our politicians are getting at
taxpayers' cost for doing very little for taxpayers.

Thanks to the SJ-R and WICS Channel 20 for helping me with my community service
projects.

Today I must thank those holiday workers who give up their Thanksgiving
celebration for our happiness. Thank you very much.

Thanks and our sincere appreciation to all our friends and family members for
their love.

Today I, along with my family, wish you all a very happy, healthy, joyous and
safe Thanksgiving Day. May the best things of life be yours in abundance, not
only at Thanksgiving but throughout the coming year.

Harish G. Bhatt

Springfield

Inaction must change to action with election of Trump

Since the election, I've gone through the stages of grief -- not because Hillary
Clinton lost, but because Donald Trump won. Intolerance, fear, bigotry,
incivility won. It feels like 1968; but this time, George Wallace won. I'm not
saying everyone who voted for Trump is a racist; I am saying that, for whatever
reason anyone did, the final result was a vote for hate.

My chosen candidates have lost presidential elections previously, and I accepted
those results. This is different. I agree with the protesters: Trump may be
president-elect, but he isn't "my" president. He represents none of my values.
President Barack Obama said Trump's success would be "our" success; that depends
on how Trump defines "success."

I naively thought Barack Obama's election was a sign racism was dying. But the
racist cockroaches came crawling out of the woodwork; complacency let them
flourish. Complacency by:

n young people, now raising their voices in protest; but many of whom didn't
vote;

n blacks, many of whom saw hope in Obama; but if they had voted for Hillary
Clinton, we wouldn't be in this precarious position;

n whites, like me, who couldn't envision a Trump win; couldn't believe we'd go
back "there" again.

I've seen the signs of learned and implicit biases (even in myself), whether
racial, sexist, religious or gender-oriented -- like "innocent" remarks and
"harmless" jokes that were offensive but I let pass, not wanting to cause
conflict. My inaction will change to action. We all need to daily do our part
(with civility); otherwise, this cancer will spread.

Let's make this election racism's "last hurrah."

Carol J. Vincent

Springfield

Republican Party platform promised vindictiveness

It's all about the healing. Baloney. The Republican Party platform promised only
vicious vindictiveness. They want to eviscerate our environmental programs, give
millions of acres of your land away to special interests, privatize Social
Security and take Medicare away from people who are not in their party base.
There were numerous other terrors in the party platform listed on the website of
the Republican National Committee.

Then there is their man going to the White House who thinks limiting the First
and Fourth amendments to our Constitution is a good idea. Goodness knows what
their Supreme Court will do to the 14th Amendment and franchise for people who
are not like them. We all know the code for states' rights. At the same time
they continue running their fatuous, thoroughly debunked trickle-down scam.

The failing Republican Party has won a stunning victory in their war against
America. They had fewer votes, yet got all the power, and they really don't care
what the rest of us think.

When they talk about healing, they really mean heeling.

Ted Hild

Springfield

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1070 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 349 words


Lawmaker: Illinois dollars shouldn't be used for wall

A Democratic legislator wants to prevent Illinois from having financial ties
with companies that might build a border wall.

State Rep. Will Guzzardi said Tuesday that the proposed wall that was a
cornerstone of Donald Trump's presidential campaign sends the wrong message.

The Chicago Democrat's plan proposes divesting Illinois' pension funds from any
businesses involved with the wall. In 2007, Illinois passed an Iran divestment
law.

Guzzardi said the proposal is his way of calling on Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner
to clarify his views on Trump. Rauner has avoided discussing the
president-elect.

Rauner said he'll review the bill. He wouldn't directly address the wall, saying
rhetoric during the campaign was appalling.

A spokesman said House Speaker Michael Madigan, D-Chicago, hasn't taken a
position on Guzzardi's bill.

Effort targets shoppers abusing disability parking

The Illinois Secretary of State's Office plans a statewide sting operation to
catch those who illegally park in disabled spots at shopping malls.

Secretary of State Jesse White announces the 10th annual effort on Tuesday in
Chicago ahead of the Black Friday shopping rush the day after Thanksgiving.
Secretary of State Police will conduct compliance checks at malls across
Illinois during the holiday season.

Fines for parking in a spot reserved for those with disabilities without a
placard or special license plate is up to $350.

The fine for illegally using a placard or disability license plate is $600 and
possible six-month driver's license suspension.

There are more than 630,000 disability placards and nearly 66,000 disability
licenses in use in Illinois.

Balsters, née Brehm, Judy

Broughton, John R.

Chapin, Sarah Ann

Cohoon Jr., Alec

Cunningham, Shirley Mae

Daly, Carol M.

Davenport, Donald Ray

Deckard, Anna

Griffith, Dan

Griffith Jr., Hugh William

Groesch, Dorthada C.

Hadsell, Mathew K.

Kahle, Norma Louise

Kaiserman, Bette

Lowe, Shirley Ann

Nevitt, Douglas Joel

Salmon, Peggy J.

Sutton (Ret.), USAF Maj. Virgil L.

More on pages 25-26

-- Wire reports

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1071 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

briefcase

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 449 words


Tokyo

Trump TPP stance draws criticism

President-elect Donald Trump says he wants to pull out of the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, but other Pacific Rim leaders are vowing to push market-opening
efforts they say are vital for growth.

The possible decline of the 12-nation TPP could give a boost to alternative
initiatives including one promoted by China in which the United States is not
taking part. Trump's message, in a brief video, was issued after President
Barack Obama and other leaders of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation group,
meeting in Peru, called Sunday for fighting the backlash against trade
highlighted by Trump's victory and Britain's vote to leave the European Union.

Promoters of the TPP say it is a step toward building a wider, pan-Pacific free
trade zone, though critics object it would shift too much control over
regulation to companies from governments and the public. "There is very strong
support among the other 11 parties to the TPP to ratify it and to seek to bring
it into force," said Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull.

Trump described the 12-nation pact as a "potential disaster for our country." He
has also said he wants to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement
with Canada and Mexico.

Washington

US home sales near decade high

Americans bought homes in October at the fastest pace in nearly decade, helped
out by low mortgage rates that have since started to climb following the
presidential election of Donald Trump.

The National Association of Realtors said Tuesday that sales of existing homes
rose 2 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.6 million. Sales
reached their strongest pace since February 2007, a sign that the market is
still healing from the collapsing prices and foreclosures that ignited the 2008
financial crisis.

A stable job market and historically cheap borrowing costs have spurred demand
from homebuyers this year. But sales growth has been tempered somewhat by
accelerating prices and a shortage of properties on the market.

Sale of Airbus planes to Iran OK'd

Officials say the Obama administration has green-lighted the sale of more than
100 Airbus planes to Iran. It's the latest U.S. license for commercial activity
with Iran since last year's nuclear deal. Airbus in September received a license
to export 17 planes.

But the officials say the European plane maker got permission Monday to export
106 more. They aren't authorized to speak publicly about the matter and demanded
anonymity.

Airbus needs Treasury Department approval because at least 10 percent of its
components are American-made.Boeing has separately gained permission to export
dozens of jetliners to Iran.

-- Staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1072 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Presidential election;
'None of above,' others get write-in votes Not many 'strange antics,' Gray says

BYLINE: Bernard Schoenburg Political Writer

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 550 words


Did you want "None of the above" for president?

So did at least a couple of people in Sangamon County.

That's known because even though write-in votes are only supposed to be counted
if the candidates had registered in advance, some Sangamon County election
judges, in their write-in tally sheets reporting results from their precincts,
included non-registered names as well.

And a review of those tally sheets shows that of the non-registered candidates
written in for president, most were known names. There was one off-color fake
name written in for U.S. Senate.

But among those unregistered presidential write-ins, seven people in three
precincts named U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., who had battled Hillary Clinton
for the Democratic nomination for president. One person wrote in Vice
President-elect Mike Pence. Former Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice got a vote
even though she never ran for president. And a vote went to U.S. Sen. Marco
Rubio, R-Fla., who did want that nomination.

Ohio Gov. John Kasich, who wouldn't attend the Republican National Convention in
his home state after being defeated in primaries by President-elect Donald
Trump, got three votes, including one where his last name is spelled "Kusick."
Former GOP presidential candidate Ben Carson got one. And Texas U.S. Sen. Ted
Cruz also got a vote, though his named was spelled "Cruse."

But, had Cruz been registered as a write-in candidate, that would have counted
because the voters' intent has to be taken into account, said Sangamon County
Clerk Don Gray.

A couple of votes went to 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney;
former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani got one; and so did former President
"Wm. J. Clinton," even though it was his wife who was the Democratic nominee.

In general, Gray said, it gave him "a bit of solace" to know that people were
aiming at "legitimate folks that are part of the governmental and political
process" with their write-ins, and there weren't many "strange antics."

And Gray said that some people like to express their opinion with a write-in,
even if the candidate isn't registered and the vote won't be officially counted.

"It's not uncommon for people to write in a name on the write-in line, whether
they're valid or not," added Stacey Kern, the county's director of elections.
"We see that every election."

Those write-in lines are added to the ballot only in races where a write-in
candidate has registered and, Gray said, that saves a lot of work for election
staffs. He said an open system, where every write-in name -- including fictional
ones -- would have to be recorded would involve a lot of time.

Among the 19 write-in candidates who did register in the county, only three got
more than 10 votes. They included presidential candidate Evan McMullin, a former
CIA agent and independent, with 382; president candidate Darrell Castle of the
Constitution Party, with 28; and Chad Koppie, a pro-life U.S. Senate candidate,
with 11.

While Clinton won the presidential contest in Illinois in the election,
unofficial results in Sangamon County had Trump with 49,944; Clinton with
40,907; Libertarian Gary Johnson with 4,512; and Green Party candidate Jill
Stein with 1,443.

-- Contact Bernard Schoenburg: bernard.schoenburg@sj-r.com, 788-1540,
twitter.com/bschoenburg.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1073 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Your views

SECTION: IL OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 533 words


Support the Automatic Voter Registration bill

The Better Government Association is encouraging lawmakers in the Illinois House
to revive and support Senate Bill 250, an important election reform bill. That
includes Rep. Sara Wojcicki Jimenez who voted for SB250 earlier this year. BGA
thanks her for her past support.

Automatic Voter Registration would make our voter rolls more accurate and secure
by providing for electronic transfer of election information in a seamless
process that is less error prone for voters, agency staff and election
officials. It saves taxpayer money and makes voter registration more convenient
so more eligible voters can participate in our democracy.

AVR was drafted in an open fashion, including input from key stakeholders such
as county clerks, the State Board of Elections and the Secretary of State's
office, as well as both Democratic and Republican leaders. It passed with strong
bipartisan majorities in the Senate and House, and the support of over 50
organizations. Nevertheless, Gov. Bruce Rauner vetoed AVR in early August.

Senators have voted to overturn the AVR veto. We hope that the House will do so
as well during the closing days of the veto session. When AVR originally passed
in the House, Jimenez voted yes and we hope that she will continue to support
AVR.

Illinois has the opportunity to join other states at the forefront of AVR
reform. Read more about it at the Brennan Center for Justice website. And
encourage your lawmaker to vote, once again, for S B250.

Judy Stevens

Policy Manager at the Better Government Association

No consensus on how to change election process

As is usual after a presidential election, people are complaining about the
results and the electoral college. People are arguing that if we are a true
democracy, the popular vote should rule.

The constitution writers set up the electoral college because they did not
believe, given the level of communication at the time, that citizens of one
state would know potential leaders from other states. They set up a system where
each state would select some of its leaders, proportionate to the population of
each state, to select the president. Within a half-century, political parties
were nominating slates of candidates for elector, pledged to their party's
nominee for president, and usually the candidate who carried a state would get
all that state's electoral votes.

Because of this procedure, candidates concentrate their campaigning in states
where they have a chance to win, rather than wasting resources where there is no
doubt about the outcome. If we used just the popular votes, candidates would
campaign in all states. Even the experts cannot foretell what outcome we could
expect under such an arrangement.

After close elections, there is a groundswell to change the electoral process.
But there seems to be no consensus on how to do it. I agree we should use
popular vote, but to accomplish that we would need to have the federal
government run the election, set uniform standards, etc. Most people probably
aren't ready for that. And do we elect the candidate with the most votes, even
if that person gets less than 50 percent of the total?

Robert Gruen

Chatham

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1074 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 175 words


Trump drama rolls on amid transition

NEW YORK -- The drama, disputes and falsehoods that permeated Donald Trump's
presidential campaign are now roiling his transition to the White House, forcing
aides to defend his baseless assertions of illegal voting and sending internal
fights spilling into public. P2

Church shooting suspect allowed be own attorney

CHARLESTON, S.C. -- The white man accused of fatally shooting nine black
parishioners at a church was allowed Monday to act as his own attorney, opening
the door to courtroom spectacles at his death penalty trial, including Dylann
Roof questioning survivors of the attack and relatives of the dead. P3

Two file for Ward 6 aldermanic opening

Residents in Springfield's Ward 6 will likely have two choices on the April
ballot to fill the seat left by Cory Jobe's resignation. Kristin DiCenso and
Martin Fruchtl filed Monday to run for the two-year term. P15

Advice 11

Business 13

City & State 15

Classified 17

Comics 12

Obits 20-21

Opinion 6

Puzzles 19

Sports 23

The Voice 9

TV listings 11

Weather 28

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1075 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The State Journal- Register (Springfield, IL)

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday

Today in History

SECTION: IL NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 693 words


Today is Saturday, Dec. 3, the 338th day of 2016. There are 28 days left in the
year.

Today's highlight

On Dec. 3, 1926, a real-life mystery began as English novelist Agatha Christie,
36, drove away from her home in Sunningdale, Berkshire, and disappeared.
(Christie turned up 11 days later at a hotel in Harrogate, Yorkshire, under an
assumed name, for reasons never quite explained.)

On this date

In 1818, Illinois was admitted as the 21st state.

In 1828, Andrew Jackson was elected president of the United States by the
Electoral College.

In 1833, Oberlin College in Ohio -- the first truly coeducational school of
higher learning in the United States -- began holding classes.

In 1925, George Gershwin's Concerto in F had its world premiere at New York's
Carnegie Hall, with Gershwin at the piano.

In 1947, the Tennessee Williams play "A Streetcar Named Desire" opened on
Broadway.

In 1953, the musical "Kismet," featuring the song "Stranger in Paradise," opened
on Broadway.

In 1960, the Lerner and Loewe musical "Camelot" opened on Broadway.

In 1965, The Beatles' sixth studio album, "Rubber Soul," was released in the
United Kingdom by Parlophone (it was released in the U.S. by Capitol Records
three days later).

In 1967, surgeons in Cape Town, South Africa led by Dr. Christiaan Barnard
performed the first human heart transplant on Louis Washkansky, who lived 18
days with the donor heart, which came from Denise Darvall, a 25-year-old bank
clerk who'd died in a traffic accident. The 20th Century Limited, the famed
luxury train, completed its final run from New York to Chicago.

In 1979, 11 people were killed in a crush of fans at Cincinnati's Riverfront
Coliseum, where the British rock group The Who was performing.

In 1984, thousands of people died after a cloud of methyl isocyanate gas escaped
from a pesticide plant operated by a Union Carbide subsidiary in Bhopal, India.

In 1991, radicals in Lebanon released American hostage Alann Steen, who'd been
held captive nearly five years.

Ten years ago: Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez won re-election, defeating
Manuel Rosales. Marat Safin had 16 aces in beating Jose Acasuso 6-3, 3-6, 6-3,
7-6 (5) in the fifth and deciding match on, giving Russia a 3-2 decision over
Argentina for its second Davis Cup crown.

Five years ago: In Atlanta, a defiant Herman Cain suspended his faltering bid
for the Republican presidential nomination amid a drumbeat of sexual misconduct
allegations which he condemned as "false and unproven." Oklahoma State defeated
Oklahoma 44-10 to win the Big 12 championship. (Exultant Oklahoma State fans
stormed the football field, resulting in a dozen injuries.)

One year ago: Congress approved a 5-year, $305 billion bill to address the
nation's aging and congested transportation systems (the bill was approved on a
359-65 vote in the House, and an 83-16 vote in the Senate). Defense Secretary
Ash Carter ordered the armed services to open all military jobs to women,
removing the final barriers that had kept women from serving in combat,
including the most dangerous and grueling commando posts. Former Stone Temple
Pilots frontman Scott Weiland was found dead in his tour bus in Bloomington,
Minnesota; he was 48.

Today's birthdays

Movie director Jean-Luc Godard is 86. Singer Jaye P. Morgan is 85. Actor Nicolas
Coster is 83. Actress Mary Alice is 75. Rock singer Ozzy Osbourne is 68. Actress
Heather Menzies Urich is 67. Rock singer Mickey Thomas is 67. Country musician
Paul Gregg (Restless Heart) is 62. Actor Steven Culp is 61. Actress Daryl Hannah
is 56. Actress Julianne Moore is 56. Olympic gold medal figure skater Katarina
Witt is 51. Actor Brendan Fraser is 48. Singer Montell Jordan is 48. Actor
Royale Watkins is 47. Actor Bruno Campos is 43. Actress Holly Marie Combs is 43.
Actress Liza Lapira is 41. Actress Lauren Roman is 41. Pop-rock singer Daniel
Bedingfield is 37. Actress Anna Chlumsky is 36. Actor Brian Bonsall is 35.
Actress Dascha Polanco is 34. Pop/rock singer-songwriter Andy Grammer is 33.
Americana musician Michael Calabrese (Lake Street Dive) is 32. Actress Amanda
Seyfried is 31. Actor Michael Angarano is 29. Actor Jake T. Austin is 22.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Article

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The State Journal- Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1076 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Governments, elected leaders respond to uptick in hate crimes

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 428 words

ABSTRACT

State and local governments, elected leaders and others are responding to recent
reports of increases in hate crime following the presidential election

FULL TEXT

HARTFORD, Conn. >> Amid reports of hate crimes and hate speech following the
election of Republican Donald Trump as president, there have been calls from
some governments and elected officials for stronger anti-hate crime laws, a
crackdown on offenders and hotlines for citizens to report harassment and
intimidation.

Here are some of the steps taken across the U.S. since Election Day on Nov. 8.

Bias hotlines

A hotline created by Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey's office last
week to report incidents of harassment or intimidation of minority groups in the
state already has logged hundreds of calls.

The Democrat said her office created the hotline in response to bias-motivated
threats around the country, including some in Massachusetts.

Meanwhile, Delaware Attorney General Matt Denn, a Democrat, has urged residents
of his state who believe they are victims of threats based on their personal
characteristics to call the state's Department of Justice. Hotlines to report
hate crimes also have been created in recent days in San Francisco and Maryland.
Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh said complaints will be referred to local
law enforcement for further investigation when appropriate.

Law changes

Democratic U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has called for tougher
federal legislation against hate crimes. He announced Monday he plans to submit
legislation that would increase penalties for those convicted of hate crimes and
allow those who report hate crimes to do so anonymously, among other things.

Mongi Dhaouadi, executive director of the Connecticut chapter of the Council on
American-Islamic Relations, said "it is extremely important that political,
civil and religious leaders" make it clear they're united in defending all
citizens who feel vulnerable. Dhaouadi joined Blumenthal at a news conference.

Stepped-up investigations

In New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo has directed state police to create a special
unit to investigate reports of hate crimes. Cuomo, a Democrat, announced the
initiative Sunday, saying it's in response to what he called "ugly political
discourse" that didn't end with the election.

Cuomo said he also plans to push for legislation that expands protections under
New York's human rights law to all students statewide. He also wants to create
the nation's first emergency legal defense fund to ensure all immigrants have
access to representation.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1077 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

California group files petition in secession effort

BYLINE: Juliet Williams; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 524 words

ABSTRACT

A group calling for California to secede from the United States has submitted a
new petition asking voters to start the process

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> A group calling for California to secede from the United States
submitted a proposed petition Monday seeking a ballot measure that would strip
the state constitution of language that says California is an inseparable part
of the nation.

The Yes California Independence Campaign hopes to put a question on the November
2018 ballot authorizing a vote on independence in spring 2019.

The group proposed the secession idea more than two years ago, but the so-called
"CalExit" movement gained serious traction on social media after Republican
Donald Trump won the presidential election.

Group Vice President Marcus Ruiz Evans said the organization now has 15,000
Twitter followers, 30,000 Facebook followers and 13,000 volunteers who have
signed up to collect signatures for the effort.

He said the election of Trump proved proponents' point that working within the
current electoral system is not sufficient to generate serious change.

The attorney general's office will review the request and submit language for a
title and summary that would allow the group to begin collecting signatures for
an initial referendum.

The final results of the election earlier this month will determine how many
signatures the group will need to place its measure on the 2018 ballot.

The U.S. Constitution does not provide for state secession.

Experts say the only way to legally secede would be to change the federal
Constitution, which requires the approval of Congress and 38 states.

But Ruiz said if 55 percent of voters approved a referendum on the issue,
proponents hope to make their case to the United Nations under its treaty on
self-determination. He said that threshold would constitute an internationally
recognized threshold requiring the governor to apply to the U.N. for "the
Republic of California" to become a member of the U.N.

"We know that you don't just vote and that it happens. This would be to start
the conversation," he said. "You have to have something where you say this is
what the public wants."

The group tried unsuccessfully to put several initiatives on the ballot this
year, including a proposal to declare California a separate nation, to rename
the governor the "president" of California, and to fly the California state flag
atop the United States flag. Those signature-gathering efforts fizzled.

Repeated attempts to create a 51st state in Northern California, named the State
of Jefferson, have also failed. That movement generally draws more conservative
supporters who are dissatisfied with California's dominance by Democrats.

Still, Ruiz said State of Jefferson supporters are welcome in the CalExit
movement, which would also shift many powers to county-level governments that he
said are more in line with local residents' wishes.

The group moved up its original plan to ask voters to approve a referendum in
2020 because of the interest following Trump's election over Hillary Clinton,
Ruiz said.

Backers expect to begin collecting signatures after Trump's January
inauguration.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1078 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 734 words


Post-election rioters align with the super-rich

The Democrat youth prodded by their professors are still protesting the
election, sometimes violently. In Portland, Oregon, the vast majority per police
arrest records didn't even bother to vote or register to vote. Let's look at
what the students and professors call a disaster of an election.

Record numbers of Hispanics, African-Americans, Asian-Americans and women of
color will serve in the next legislative session. The number of women will stay
the same in the new Congress, at a total of 104 members, but a record number of
21 women will serve in the Senate.

The New York Times promised to "rededicate ourselves" to good journalism, and
stated they "reported on both candidates fairly during the presidential
campaign." The next day the latter statement has been scrubbed in "To Our
Readers" letter on the Times' website. Even the Times could not swallow that
fairness line.

The rioters' favorites, the Democrats, or as I call them the party of the
super-rich (just observe Barbara Boxer, Dianne Feinstein, and Nancy Pelosi's
increasing riches) are still in power on the left coast. Democrats have managed
Republican voter suppression in California, knocking most of the party off
during the primary.

Although rioters, one down side. "When we see people, global elites, wealthy
corporations seemingly living by a different set of rules, avoiding taxes,
manipulating loopholes ... this feeds a profound sense of injustice," proclaimed
Barack Obama. After eight years no Democrat tried to stop this, but actually
used these loopholes to become super rich themselves.

- B.K. Brooks, Chico

Chico citizens repudiate last-minute hit pieces

With the election of three liberals and just one conservative back to the Chico
City Council, I'd like to thank Chico voters for apparently seeing right through
a blatantly false, slick, glossy, expensive, last-minute (three days before the
election) hit piece mailer from the Butte County Awareness and Accountability
Committee.

This is the same organization that targeted Scott Gruendl with two similar
mailed hit pieces two years ago, just ahead of his bid for re-election to the
Chico City Council

This current hit piece that I received in the mail, from an organization whose
treasurer is the former head of the local branch of the tea party (as recently
as 2014), accused council candidate Randall Stone of basically being a climate
change denier.

Interesting charge, in that the Pew Research Center reports that fully 75
percent of tea partyers are on record as being climate change deniers.

Note the spin here: an ultra-conservative political organization that is
four-square against the concept of human-induced climate change is accusing a
liberal Democrat of being a climate change denier. Interesting strategy. Where
have we seen this kind of political strategy used before? I wonder ...

Bottom line: The last-minute nature of slick, expensive hit pieces like these
should be an immediate red flag to any potential educated voter.

- Mark S. Gailey, Chico

Trump's election should be familiar to history buffs

Not since Henry Clay, who also ran several times, has a presidential candidate
so superbly qualified failed to get elected.

In 1832, Clay too was defeated by a spectacularly underqualified opponent. This
was Andrew Jackson, a back-woods Indian fighter, who believed the system was
rigged, and who put an end to the unbroken chain of gentlemen who had occupied
the White House since it was built in Washington's presidency. In fact, at his
inauguration Jackson's rough and tumble supporters trashed the place.

So we have been here before and survived, which may be some consolation. Not so
much if you remember what happened next. Jackson presided over Indian removal -
the "Trail of Tears," the ethnic cleansing of the Indian population of the
country. When the Supreme Court ordered its halt, Jackson replied, "(Chief
Justice) John Marshall has made his decision, now let him enforce it."

Jackson's primitive economic policies (he too was against regulation) resulted
in a runaway real estate and banking boom, which ended in the Panic of 1837 and
the worst recession the country had ever seen.

So wish us luck. History comes with no guarantees and without a return policy.
Besides, no one ever supposed American democracy was other than a somewhat
implausible experiment in the first place.

- Carl Peterson, Paradise

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1079 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Get set for new voting system statewide in next election

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 714 words

ABSTRACT

Opinion page planning package

FULL TEXT

If you voted this fall in the clubhouse of a park or a school auditorium,
remember the experience well. It may not be repeated anytime soon. If you saw
American flags flying at your precinct polling place, that sight may also
disappear.

A whole new election system is about to begin in California, complete with "vote
centers" and a big expansion of early balloting. The new system will start
phasing in 2018 in 14 counties and should be operative by 2020 everywhere in the
state.

One thing for sure, losing candidates and those who expect to lose will have new
fodder for the "rigged election" cry taken up so vocally this fall by Republican
presidential candidate Donald Trump.

With more mail-in ballots involved than ever before, same-day voter registration
and personnel in place to provide language assistance, charges of fraud will be
common at least while the new system is being broken in.

The hope behind the new system, pushed hard by Democratic Secretary of State
Alex Padilla and signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown, is to increase voter
turnout drastically.

After low turnout disappointed officials in 2014 and the off-year-elections of
2013 and 2015, they began casting about for changes. The new system will deliver
mail-in ballots to every registered voter in the 28 days before the actual
election day, aiming to end any need to vote in a single place on just one day.

"We've got to ... implement a new voting model," said Democratic state Sen. Ben
Allen of Santa Monica, who sponsored the new system in the Legislature. "Our
current system has failed, as our voter turnout rates continued to decline
toward record lows."

Turnout in both the 2014 primary (25 percent of registered voters) and that
year's November general election (42 percent) was at record lows, making Padilla
and the Legislature a bit desperate to push numbers up.

So instead of voters needing to sign up to receive mail-in ballots for every
election, from now on they will go to everyone automatically. Never mind the
tradition of the secret ballot. Everyone from labor unions to employers to
neighborhood groups is now free to hold ballot-marking parties before election
day. This has been true since mail-in voting became common in the late 1970s,
and there have never been charges it led to mass fraud or coerced voting for
particular candidates or causes. But such outcries may arise now.

The guinea pigs for the new system will be voters in Calaveras, Inyo, Madera,
Napa, Nevada, Orange, Sacramento, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Shasta, Sierra, Sutter and Tuolumne counties, with in-person voting at centers
spotted around each county weeks before election day. Voters will also be able
to drop off ballots at those centers, rather than mailing them in.

Counties pushed for this, partly as a cost-cutting measure. The fewer polling
places, the lower the cost of an election. But counties moving to the new system
will all have to adopt detailed plans through a system involving public hearings
and input. Community groups, advocates for the disabled and other individuals
will all be able to express preferences for vote center locations. But expect
them to be placed in public buildings where there's either no rent or low rent.

The politicians behind this system claim it will provide far greater flexibility
than longstanding precinct polling places. "It's time to modernize the voting
process," said Democratic state Sen. Robert Hertzberg of Los Angeles, a
co-sponsor. "We need to provide the same convenience and flexibility (people)
have in other areas of their lives. You can stream a movie or deposit a check
with your phone any time, but without this (change), people still have to
arrange their busy schedules to get to a polling place on a single day and that
has hurt turnout."

Only time will tell whether all this actually spurs more people to vote, and no
one knows whether the inevitable charges of fraud or vote-fixing will have any
merit. But the people behind the change are certainly correct about one thing:
Turnout has become far too low, often allowing a small minority of eligible
voters to choose the people who make key decisions for everyone.

Thomas Elias' column appears each Wednesday. He can be reached at
tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1080 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Rep. Xavier Becerra nominated for state attorney general

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 800 words

ABSTRACT

Gov. Jerry Brown has tapped U.S. Rep. Xavier Becerra to succeed Kamala Harris as
California attorney general

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> California Gov. Jerry Brown on Thursday named U.S. Rep. Xavier
Becerra as state attorney general, succeeding newly elected U.S. Sen. Kamala
Harris and ending speculation about whether he would appoint a caretaker or an
ambitious Democrat for the second-highest statewide office.

Becerra, 58, a rising star in the party who served as a high-profile Latino
surrogate for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's campaign this
year. He was widely discussed as a potential cabinet appointee if Clinton won.

But with the election of Trump and a Republican sweep of both houses of
Congress, his 24-year tenure in the House is no longer as appealing. In the
attorney general's position, Becerra could serve through 2018 then seek another
eight years after that.

Trump's election upended his path to influence, said Thad Kousser, Political
Science Department chair at the University of California, San Diego.

"Washington, DC is now red territory, so if he wants to have an impact on
policy, California's the place to do it," Kousser said.

The Democratic governor noted Becerra's service in Congress, in the state
Legislature and as a deputy attorney general. The nomination is subject to
confirmation by the state Assembly and Senate. It will be officially submitted
after Harris resigns.

"I'm confident he will be a champion for all Californians and help our state
aggressively combat climate change," the Democratic governor said in a
statement.

If confirmed, Becerra will be the state's chief law enforcement officer and will
oversee the legal defenses of California's aggressive efforts to control
greenhouse gases. He'll also preside over likely skirmishes between the state's
liberal lawmakers and the administration of Republican President-elect Donald
Trump.

Becerra said in a statement that Brown had presented him with an opportunity he
can't refuse.

"As a former deputy attorney general, I relished the chance to be our state's
chief law enforcement officer to protect consumers, advance criminal justice
reform and, of course, keep our families safe," Becerra said. He noted that he
traveled to 15 states as he campaigned for congressional candidates in
battleground districts this year.

"But California right now is ahead of the country when it comes to clean energy,
commonsense treatment of immigrants, real health security and so much more," he
said.

As Democratic caucus chairman, Becerra is the highest ranking Latino in
Congress, where he has served since 1992. Brown's announcement noted that he was
the first in his family to graduate from college, obtaining both bachelor of
arts and law degrees from Stanford University.

Kousser noted that going to battle in the courtroom with the Trump
administration over climate change and immigration will raise his profile both
in California and nationally, which would help him if he wants to run for
governor in 2018 or to replace Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., when she decides
to retire.

It also gives him a leg up against other rising Latino officials with ambition
for higher office, including state Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon, D-Los
Angeles, and former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa.

Becerra's replacement in his solidly Democratic district in Los Angeles would be
picked via special election. His expected departure immediately set off
speculation about his potential replacement. Former Assembly Speaker John Perez
quickly announced he would seek the seat representing areas including downtown,
Boyle Heights, Chinatown and Highland Park.

Becerra is likely to face easy confirmation in the Democratically controlled
Legislature. De Leon and Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon, D-Paramount, both
released effusive statements praising Becerra as someone who will stand up to
Washington and defend the rights of Californians.

Michael Rushford, president of the conservative Criminal Justice Legal
Foundation, doesn't expect major changes in criminal justice policy with Becerra
atop the state Department of Justice.

"The governor has done a lot of things with regards to criminal justice policy
that I suspect he wants to have kept in place," Rushford said. "So I would be
surprised if you were going to get an attorney general who was going to look at
his policies unfavorably."

Becerra was a deputy attorney general for three years before he began his
political career in 1990. The experience should help ensure a smooth transition,
said Steve Wagstaffe, San Mateo County's top prosecutor and president of the
California District Attorneys Association.

"I look forward to meeting him soon and establishing a relationship with him and
the district attorneys," Wagstaffe said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1081 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

Americans from all sides should oppose a recount

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 616 words

ABSTRACT

Opinion page planning package

FULL TEXT

I oppose the recount.

There are, to my mind, only two reasons to re-examine ballots in a presidential
campaign, as Green Party candidate Jill Stein has raised money to do. The first
is in the event of error or fraud, but there is no evidence thereof in the 2016
election, as Stein herself has admitted.

The second is in the event the margin of victory is especially slim. And yes, in
the three states where Stein is pushing for a recount - Wisconsin, Michigan and
Pennsylvania - the margins are indeed thin, particularly in Michigan, which
Hillary Clinton lost by just 11,612 votes.

But in a case like that, the recount must begin immediately - and preferably
automatically - to be seen as credible. A recount three weeks after the fact
cannot avoid the appearance of dirty tricks. Indeed, if the results in any of
the states in question were overturned at this late date, Donald Trump's
supporters would suspect malfeasance - and be justified in doing so.

Don't misunderstand: I remain unalterably convinced that the new president is an
awful person and that America made a generations-defining mistake in choosing
him. But that does not give us license to casually undermine the integrity of
the election.

Besides, Trump is doing a fine job of that without Stein's help.

You'd think, what with recruiting the political equivalents of Darth Vader and
Victor Von Doom for his cabinet and presumably ordering a new Oval Office rug
with a giant golden "T" in the center, he'd be too busy for such things, but
you'd be wrong.

On Monday, Trump tweeted, "I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of
people who voted illegally."

It was hardly the first time he didn't know what the hell he was talking about.
Not only is there zero evidence this supposedly massive fraud happened, but
simple logic says that it could not. To be here illegally is to live off the
grid, to be paid in cash, avoid interactions with police, steer clear of city
hall.

Why would one such person - let alone millions - jeopardize the security of
anonymity to cast a fraudulent vote?

It's an idiotic idea. News organizations dutifully dubbed it "baseless," too
polite to say that Trump's claim contained enough steer manure to fertilize
Central Park.

And at this point, anyone who ever believed in an ideal called America should be
unnerved.

A democracy is, in many ways, a fragile thing. As Thomas Jefferson wrote, it
depends for its very existence upon the "consent of the governed" - meaning not
our support of every action a government takes, but rather, our willingness to
believe in its integrity. It is from this that democratic government derives its
power. Democracy, then, is an act of mutual agreement.

In a nation of 320 million people who share no one ancestry, culture or faith,
it is also connective tissue. The idea that my vote matters no more - or less -
than yours is the tie that binds an Inuit in Bethel, Alaska, to a Haitian
refugee in Miami to an Irish Catholic in Boston to a Mexican-American in San
Diego to a Muslim in Kansas City. It is the thing that makes us Americans.

And it's the thing Trump burned down in his scorched earth appeal to bigotry and
resentment.

Now, here comes Stein in a desperate bid to deny the electorate its appalling
choice. Avatars of a demoralized left and a hateful right, they are alike in at
least one respect: their apparent willingness to damage what they purport to
love.

So we find ourselves at a no-win crossroads. Trump's victory is a terrible
thing.

Stealing it would be even worse.

Leonard Pitts is a columnist for The Miami Herald. Readers may contact him via
e-mail at lpitts@miamiherald.com His column appears each Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1082 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

An opportunity, not a mandate

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1129 words

ABSTRACT

Brian Calle on election

FULL TEXT


A presidential election victory is not a mandate. In fact, winning a
presidential election never is, despite the opinion of too many pundits. Even
Republican President Ronald Reagan recognized this when he won a landslide
re-election in 1984, winning 49 states and garnering 525 electoral votes.

In the aftermath of that election, Reagan pushed bipartisan support of laws he
signed and ensured his Republican Party worked with Democrats in Congress.

Despite the opinion of some, President-elect Trump's victory is not a mandate,
either, and not because he lost the popular vote or because we are coming out of
the most divisive election cycle in modern history, where many in the country
are viewing his imminent presidency with a great deal of skepticism and concern.
It's because when a president or a political party treats any one election as a
mandate and overreaches, it quickly loses the reins of power.

After his historic 2008 victory, President Obama had the wind at his back.
Democrats regained the presidency after eight years and held majorities in both
the Senate and the House of Representatives. His party was unified and poised
for potentially unparalleled legislative achievement, believing that the country
had endorsed an ambitious progressive agenda.

Early in his presidential tenure, Obama pushed what would ultimately become his
signature legislative achievement - the Affordable Care Act (colloquially
referred to as Obamacare). It was pushed through Congress without a single
Republican vote in either the House or the Senate, in the face of widespread
public opposition to the legislation.

That single action started a chain of events, beginning with a revolt by voters
in 2010, costing President Obama's Democratic Party to lose its majority in the
House and drop six seats in the Senate. It is also what spawned the Tea Party,
and, thus, the beginnings of an early base of support for Trump, a political
figure who personifies all that Obama demonized.

Ever since, Obama has had a combative relationship with Congress devoid of
mutual trust or admiration. Republicans in Congress bear some of the blame, as
they refused to work with Obama.

The result is unfortunate: Since 2010, President Obama has had no other major
legislative achievements. Contrast that with former Presidents Bill Clinton and
Reagan - both who faced Congresses controlled by the opposition party - and you
will see a stark contrast in approach and, thus, accomplishment. In fact, Reagan
had a rule that he would not sign a bill into law without at least some
Democratic support, and Clinton's penchant for political deal-making was the
hallmark of his success as president.

For the last six years in Washington, compromise was replaced with contempt.
Polarization has overtaken collaboration and it's become more politically
expedient to bash political opponents than to find common ground.

President Obama's response to the gridlock was to attempt to legislate by fiat,
that is, to use executive orders to sidestep a Congress that he chastised as
being controlled by the "Party of no." As Marc Thiessen wrote for the Washington
Post, "The reason Obama's legacy is so vulnerable today is that the 44th
president relied more on executive actions - issuing not only executive orders,
but also a record number of rules, regulations and agency directives to
legislate around Congress and impose his agenda."

Thiessen also recalled: "After he lost control of the Senate in 2014, Obama
announced at his first Cabinet meeting: 'We're not just going to be waiting for
legislation. ... I've got a pen and I've got a phone. And I can use that pen to
sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that
move the ball forward.'"

What this means, though, is on Day One in office, President Trump could undo
every single one of the actions Obama made with his pen and phone. That's why
the role of the president is not that of a legislator, but instead a
collaborative role that must persuade and work with Congress to pass legislation
by a large enough margin that the next president and Congress will not undo it.

Now Trump, winning an even more alienating campaign than either of the two that
Obama won, must grapple with the realities of governing an even more divided
country. The Republican Party will control the White House, the Senate and the
House of Representatives, but if it overreaches it will face the same kind of
backlash Democrats and President Obama felt in the 2010 and 2014 elections.

Brian Calle is opinion editor for the Southern California News Group.

proach and, thus, accomplishment. In fact, Reagan had a rule that he would not
sign a bill into law without at least some Democratic support, and Clinton's
penchant for political deal-making was the hallmark of his success as president.

For the last six years in Washington, compromise was replaced with contempt.
Polarization has overtaken collaboration and it's become more politically
expedient to bash political opponents than to find common ground.

President Obama's response to the gridlock was to attempt to legislate by fiat,
that is, to use executive orders to sidestep a Congress that he chastised as
being controlled by the "Party of no." As Marc Thiessen wrote for the Washington
Post, "The reason Obama's legacy is so vulnerable today is that the 44th
president relied more on executive actions - issuing not only executive orders,
but also a record number of rules, regulations and agency directives to
legislate around Congress and impose his agenda."

Thiessen also recalled: "After he lost control of the Senate in 2014, Obama
announced at his first Cabinet meeting: 'We're not just going to be waiting for
legislation. ... I've got a pen and I've got a phone. And I can use that pen to
sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that
move the ball forward.'"

What this means, though, is on Day One in office, President Trump could undo
every single one of the actions Obama made with his pen and phone. That's why
the role of the president is not that of a legislator, but instead a
collaborative role that must persuade and work with Congress to pass legislation
by a large enough margin that the next president and Congress will not undo it.

Now Trump, winning an even more alienating campaign than either of the two that
Obama won, must grapple with the realities of governing an even more divided
country. The Republican Party will control the White House, the Senate and the
House of Representatives, but if it overreaches it will face the same kind of
backlash Democrats and President Obama felt in the 2010 and 2014 elections.

Brian Calle is opinion editor for the Southern California News Group.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1083 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Five ideas to make America greater

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1685 words


Donald Trump's presidential campaign was based on the notion that he could "Make
America Great Again." But beyond the rhetoric - sometimes lurching into
demagoguery - the newly elected president comes to office, as one commentator
suggests, "the least policy-savvy president in history."

To succeed, Trump must adopt innovative policies that transcend traditional
right-left divides. He needs to find ways to help his heavily white,
working-class base while expanding his appeal to minorities, millennials and
educated people who are now largely horrified by his ascendency.

In the short run, his biggest problem may lie with his own Republican Party
establishment, which, rather than "drain the swamp," would simply like to create
one of its own. The looming presence of corporate lobbyists, swarming around the
administration like hungry flies, is not encouraging at all, nor are GOP
congressional plans to re-establish "earmarks."

The key lies not in empowering a different set of K Street parasites, but rather
in reversing income stagnation. If he cannot, his triumph may prove to be no
more consequential than an absurdist, Latin American-style telenovela.

A flatter, fairer tax

The basic instinct among many Republicans tends toward reducing taxes on their
richest donors and making life easier for the ultrarich, including some on
Trump's economic team. Trump's imperative should, instead, be to make the tax
system fairer for the middle and working classes. One way would be to make a
graduated flat tax that would mean that the rich, who make most of their money
from investments, pay the same rate for capital gains as the rest of us do for
income.

Democrats will, no doubt, still charge Trump with being "unfair," but, as Ronald
Reagan proved 20 years ago, Americans support incentives for work if they don't
unfairly tilt conditions to the ultrarich. Main Street business owners, the most
hostile constituency to the Obama administration's policies, pay taxes based on
their income and can't manipulate the system like Apple, Google, Wall Streeters
or, for that matter, real estate developers like Trump himself.

A middle ground for immigration

Opposition to illegal immigration helped drive the Trump campaign early on, but,
outside of the GOP base, there is little support for a mass roundup of the
undocumented. The vast majority of Americans, over 70 percent, also oppose "open
borders." After all, even President Obama evicted 2 million people during his
two terms in office.

Trump also can begin reordering our immigration policies toward skilled workers
who are interested in becoming citizens. At the same time, Trump could score
points by undermining the H1-B visa program, which allows Silicon Valley firms,
along with corporations like Disney and Southern California Edison, to lay off
American workers and replace them with temporary indentured servants.

Unleash the energy industry

Much of the growth in America during the first six years of the Obama
administration came from energy, which added 500,000 jobs between 2004 and 2014,
much of them concentrated in the Trumpian heartland of the upper Midwest,
Appalachia and the Texas-Oklahoma-Louisiana "oil patch." Now, under pressure
from low prices, Trump may consider ways to encourage our domestic producers.

Since he is not a free trade ideologue, Trump could position his policy as one
way to keep from being dependent on lunatic Middle Eastern states - or even his
good friend Vladimir Putin. The energy industry and manufacturing, unlike high
tech, employ large numbers of not only of white, working-class people, but also
Latinos and African Americans, and generally at high wages.

Localism

This election proved how deeply divided Americans are, both by class and
geography. The fearful reaction on the Left to Trump's election reveals how
dependent our politics have become on the "imperial presidency." One way to
defuse the worry would be to cede more control from Washington to the
localities.

We should let the leaders of the "Left Coast," if they so wish, wear green
energy hair shirts, legalize marijuana, boost the minimum wage dramatically,
suppress suburban housing and dictate transgender bathrooms. If the middle of
the country does not want to follow suit, that's just fine, as long as they
protect basic human rights. A country as diverse and divided cannot be
effectively ruled by a central government that goes increasingly into areas that
were once largely controlled locally.

Infrastructure

To succeed, Trump must look as much to the model of Franklin D. Roosevelt as
Ronald Reagan. A large basic infrastructure plan - long the purview of the
federal government - would employ many blue-collar workers, including many
minorities. This stimulus should be directed to those areas and industries more
open to his administration, such as trucking, warehousing, energy and basic
manufacturing. Much of the work should be in the areas that backed Trump - the
South, where growth is strongest, and also in the Midwest and Great Plains,
where much of the basic road, bridge and energy infrastructure is outdated.

Ultimately, Trump's success depends on securing the economic interests of his
core supporters. To expand his coalition, he needs show how his program helps
not just his core base but also broader parts of the population who likewise
have felt short-changed in this economy, and deserve a better future.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

to be no more consequential than an absurdist, Latin American-style telenovela.

A flatter, fairer tax

The basic instinct among many Republicans tends toward reducing taxes on their
richest donors and making life easier for the ultrarich, including some on
Trump's economic team. Trump's imperative should, instead, be to make the tax
system fairer for the middle and working classes. One way would be to make a
graduated flat tax that would mean that the rich, who make most of their money
from investments, pay the same rate for capital gains as the rest of us do for
income.

Democrats will, no doubt, still charge Trump with being "unfair," but, as Ronald
Reagan proved 20 years ago, Americans support incentives for work if they don't
unfairly tilt conditions to the ultrarich. Main Street business owners, the most
hostile constituency to the Obama administration's policies, pay taxes based on
their income and can't manipulate the system like Apple, Google, Wall Streeters
or, for that matter, real estate developers like Trump himself.

A middle ground for immigration

Opposition to illegal immigration helped drive the Trump campaign early on, but,
outside of the GOP base, there is little support for a mass roundup of the
undocumented. The vast majority of Americans, over 70 percent, also oppose "open
borders." After all, even President Obama evicted 2 million people during his
two terms in office.

Trump also can begin reordering our immigration policies toward skilled workers
who are interested in becoming citizens. At the same time, Trump could score
points by undermining the H1-B visa program, which allows Silicon Valley firms,
along with corporations like Disney and Southern California Edison, to lay off
American workers and replace them with temporary indentured servants.

Unleash the energy industry

Much of the growth in America during the first six years of the Obama
administration came from energy, which added 500,000 jobs between 2004 and 2014,
much of them concentrated in the Trumpian heartland of the upper Midwest,
Appalachia and the Texas-Oklahoma-Louisiana "oil patch." Now, under pressure
from low prices, Trump may consider ways to encourage our domestic producers.

Since he is not a free trade ideologue, Trump could position his policy as one
way to keep from being dependent on lunatic Middle Eastern states - or even his
good friend Vladimir Putin. The energy industry and manufacturing, unlike high
tech, employ large numbers of not only of white, working-class people, but also
Latinos and African Americans, and generally at high wages.

Localism

This election proved how deeply divided Americans are, both by class and
geography. The fearful reaction on the Left to Trump's election reveals how
dependent our politics have become on the "imperial presidency." One way to
defuse the worry would be to cede more control from Washington to the
localities.

We should let the leaders of the "Left Coast," if they so wish, wear green
energy hair shirts, legalize marijuana, boost the minimum wage dramatically,
suppress suburban housing and dictate transgender bathrooms. If the middle of
the country does not want to follow suit, that's just fine, as long as they
protect basic human rights. A country as diverse and divided cannot be
effectively ruled by a central government that goes increasingly into areas that
were once largely controlled locally.

Infrastructure

To succeed, Trump must look as much to the model of Franklin D. Roosevelt as
Ronald Reagan. A large basic infrastructure plan - long the purview of the
federal government - would employ many blue-collar workers, including many
minorities. This stimulus should be directed to those areas and industries more
open to his administration, such as trucking, warehousing, energy and basic
manufacturing. Much of the work should be in the areas that backed Trump - the
South, where growth is strongest, and also in the Midwest and Great Plains,
where much of the basic road, bridge and energy infrastructure is outdated.

Ultimately, Trump's success depends on securing the economic interests of his
core supporters. To expand his coalition, he needs show how his program helps
not just his core base but also broader parts of the population who likewise
have felt short-changed in this economy, and deserve a better future.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1084 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Dems should resist urge to go farther left

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 651 words


Democrats are afraid, and not just of President-elect Donald Trump.

After years spent preparing for a Clinton presidency under the illusion that
culture war politics conquered all, they now fear that Republicans - who control
32 state legislatures and counting - will act as if their only opposition clings
to a strip of coastline along the Atlantic and the Pacific. But in the Golden
State, where Democrats reign supreme, a parallel universe is setting in. Rather
than moderating their rule to encourage Republicans nationwide to seek common
ground, California Democrats want to make their state more of a leftist utopia
than ever.

This is a mistake. California provides Democrats with a badly needed safe space
to show they can govern without being captive to the culturally revolutionary
vanguard that has pushed so many voters into the arms of Trump's GOP.

If Democrats want to make a credible case that Republicans should exercise
magnanimity and restraint over the next four years as they set a national policy
agenda, they should refocus on a broadly appealing agenda that pays heed to
California's dwindling middle class and its pinched working class. The
old-fashioned circumspection of Gov. Jerry Brown should be more of a model going
forward than the cutting-edge, aggressive progressivism of Gavin Newsom or
Kamala Harris.

Certainly, California is already one of the most socially liberal states in the
union. But, as its many libertarians can attest, the accommodating and
permissive spirit that has worked best for California has largely been an
organic one, rising up from residents' progressively shifting habits and mores.
Meanwhile, enforced, top-down "liberalism" has mostly sown intractable conflict,
squandering valuable time and energy on matters that hardly bear on the basic
hallmarks of successful governance: a robust economy, judicious lawmaking and a
society with a healthy, stable middle tier of producers, consumers and
neighbors. Democrats should have anticipated the disappointments of a rainbow
coalition built around an identity politics of grievance, even if, in
California's parallel universe, rose-colored glasses made it difficult.

But recent news reports have revealed that one leading Democrat did push for a
different approach - Bill Clinton, the man responsible for his party's return
from narrow margins in national politics after three consecutive Republican
administrations. Clinton "repeatedly pushed his wife's campaign to do more
outreach to economically distressed white communities by prioritizing her
populist economic message," as Vanity Fair has noted. "But her advisors refused,
believing that Hillary would do better by appealing to minorities and
college-educated suburban voters."

He begged in vain for his wife to accept an invitation to address a St.
Patrick's Day event at the University of Notre Dame. "But Mrs. Clinton's
campaign refused, explaining to the organizers that white Catholics were not the
audience she needed to spend time reaching out to," the New York Times recently
reported.

White, working-class voters who broke for Obama flipped to Trump and the GOP
across the Rust Belt, deciding the election.

Democrats who want to regain the trust of those Obama voters have much work to
do in the Midwest states that turned against them this year. But the real proof
of a party-wide rethink will have to come from the deepest blue states, and no
blue state is more Democratic than California.

Gov. Brown has hardly governed as a bloodless centrist, but he has consistently
curbed some of his party's least productive adventures in utopianism and
identity politics. Although California's rising generation of leading Democrats
often seem to think of an archliberal agenda as not just their prerogative, but
rather their destiny, if they fail to reckon with the wisdom of an earlier
political age, soon they'll really have something to worry about.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1085 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

By accident, media helped Trump

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 627 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

A lot of people were shocked by the result of the presidential election, but I
think it's safe to say the only people more stunned than Hillary Clinton and her
supporters were the news media. And by the media, I mean all of them.

It didn't matter which network you were watching, as each anchor called the
election for Donald Trump they all had the same expression of complete and total
bewilderment on their faces. The only thing I can compare it to is the look that
attorney Robert Kardashian had on his kisser when the jury foreman read the O.J.
Simpson verdict.

The conventional wisdom was that since Trump was hit with the kitchen sink on a
daily basis, there was no way he could cobble together the necessary 270
electoral votes to win the election.

But he did.

And I actually think the media's palpable disdain for the Manhattan billionaire
ended up helping him with the American people.

Never before has there been an election where the news media so overtly picked a
side. This was true across all platforms - broadcast, entertainment and print -
almost everybody in my profession wanted Hillary to win.

Writing in Time magazine, Univision and Fusion anchor Jorge Ramos insisted, "It
doesn't matter who you are - a journalist, a politician or a voter - we'll all
be judged by how we responded to Donald Trump. Like it or not, this election is
a plebiscite on the most divisive, polarizing and disrupting figure in American
politics in decades. And neutrality is not an option."

And then Ramos went even further, saying, "Trump has forced journalists to
revisit rules of objectivity and fairness. Just providing both points of view is
not enough in the current presidential campaign. If a candidate is making racist
and sexist remarks, we cannot hide in the principle of neutrality. That's a
false equivalence."

Ramos' remarks were celebrated by his peers.

The Philadelphia Enquirer went so far as to editorialize, "You call Jorge Ramos
'an advocacy journalist'? If so, America needs 10,000 more like him."

On "The Tonight Show,' host Jimmy Fallon invited Trump on as a guest and treated
him the same way he would treat any other political candidate. As a result, he
was excoriated.

Jo Miller, an executive producer of "Full Frontal with Samantha Bee" on TBS,
said in an interview with The New York Times that seeing Fallon's interview of
Trump "was a punch in the gut."

Miller explained, "This is not a race between Democrat and Republican - this is
a race between Democrat and demagogue. You don't normalize someone who's
inciting violence."

And then you have the Huffington Post, which decided to print all of its
Trump-related news in the 'entertainment' section of the website along with the
outrageous editors note, "Donald Trump regularly incites political violence and
is a serial liar, rampant xenophobe, racist, misogynist and birther who has
repeatedly pledged to ban all Muslims - 1.6 billion members of an entire
religion - from entering the U.S."

In response to this blanket side-picking, most Americans just decided to tune
the media out - because they knew they weren't honest brokers.

Whenever a news outlet would unveil yet another hit piece on Trump, it would
largely fall on deaf ears instead of having an impact on the race.

A week and change after the election, two things are clear - the media have lost
their influence over the electorate, and it helped Donald Trump.

If they want to get their good name back, and recapture the attention of half of
America, there's only one way to do it - go back to playing it straight.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1086 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Why we are still waiting for Madam President

BYLINE: Lori Cox Han

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 899 words

ABSTRACT

Lori Cox Han on Clinton loss

FULL TEXT

Obviously, a Hillary Clinton presidency would have been historic. The symbolism
of Clinton's inauguration as the first women president would have resonated
world-wide as a mark of the progress that American women have achieved in all
walks of life. Instead, the post-mortem is well underway about why, despite all
the polls and pundit predictions, Clinton lost.

Many are pointing to sexism as the main culprit, yet no empirical evidence
exists to back it up. We know that sexist and misogynistic views exist within
our society, and that negative stereotypes about women are constantly promoted
within our mass media. However, proving a link between sexist views and voting
behavior, with any validity, is impossible. Public opinion polls for years have
shown support for electing a woman president, suggesting that a majority of
Americans are not deterred by a woman candidate. Partisanship was more than
likely the deciding factor in 2016 as severe polarization has continued among
the American electorate, as were economic issues as evidenced by Donald Trump's
success in the Rust Belt.

Similarly, gender bias in news coverage is also a popular theory for why Clinton
lost. While sexist and misogynistic language exists, particularly online and in
social media, there is no empirical evidence to suggest this can effect voter
preference or turnout. If a blogger or cable news pundit writes or says
something offensive about a woman candidate, are we to believe that can
translate into hundreds of thousands or even millions of voters refusing to
support her? That assessment defies logic. Obviously, sexism can have a harmful
effect when considering the broader issue of political socialization through the
mass media, but we should not overinflate its importance as it relates to
political news and voting behavior. Not only has research shown that
frontrunners get more negative coverage (which Clinton was in 2008 and 2016),
but also that public criticism of sexist attacks can eliminate the effectiveness
and make it seem less credible.

Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign built extensively on the support she earned
in her campaign for the Democratic nomination in 2008. She won the Democratic
nomination with 34 primary and caucus victories and a total of 17 million votes.
She broke every fundraising record with the $500 million she raised this
campaign cycle (not to mention the nearly $200 million in Super PAC funds). In
the general election, she won 19 states plus the District of Columbia, 232
electoral votes, and will win the popular vote. To say that American voters
can't or won't vote for a woman for president no longer holds credibility.

A closer examination of Clinton as a candidate is where we see many compelling
reasons for her loss. I am on record that Clinton was an "inherently flawed
candidate," which left me skeptical for years that she could actually win the
presidency. During this campaign, she was under investigation by the FBI for
both her use of a private email server and fundraising at the Clinton Foundation
while secretary of state. That, along with the baggage from her husband's long
political career, reinforced the negative perceptions many Americans have had of
the Clintons for years.

A majority of voters did not trust her, nor did they hold a positive view of
her. What has often helped women politicians - being more trusted among voters,
in part, for their outsider perspective - was lost for Clinton. In addition, the
argument that she should run on the historic nature of her campaign to be the
first woman president fell flat months ago, as polling and focus group data
suggested that message was hurting more than helping her.

Group solidarity also did not emerge for Clinton with women voters. Despite
projections that the gender gap would be a record-breaking 20 percent or higher,
it was only 13 percent (similar to Barack Obama's support from women in 2008 and
2012, as well as Al Gore's in 2000). Political scientists have long known that
women are not a monolithic voting bloc. Research continues to show that it is
partisan affiliation (including policy choices), and not gender, that is most
influential in determining women's voter preference. Mitt Romney won among
married women and white women in 2012; this time, Clinton won among married
women, but 53 percent of white women supported Trump, proving that gender is
just one part of the voting behavior equation.

As I have long argued, despite the inevitable symbolism that will come from
electing the first woman president, nothing will change about our constitution
and/or presidential powers. I concluded in my 2015 book "In It to Win: Electing
Madam President" that a gendered strategy is not necessary for a woman
presidential candidate to win, and I believe the Clinton campaign proved that
point. While some gender advantages may exist, it is the institutional,
constitutional, nuts-and-bolts of the electoral process that ultimately
determines the winner. Despite the advantage in fundraising, political
experience and a superior ground game, the Clinton campaign failed to provide a
strong narrative about why she should be elected, and failed to turn out voters
in the swing states that mattered. The candidate's gender can hardly be blamed
for that.

Lori Cox Han, PhD, is professor of political science at Chapman University.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1087 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Leaders set to stress job growth to Trump

BYLINE: David Danelski; ddanelski@scng.com

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 887 words

ABSTRACT

LDN-L-ELX-ENERGY | From PE; will place in SAXO | The nation, especially Southern
California, has pushed hard for alternative fuels, powered by President Obama's
alluring financial incentives by a shift to the right in DC? The state,
encouraged by Gov. Brown, crafted some of the nation's toughest air-quality
standards while private companies took advantage of incentives to build mammoth
solar plants in the desert? Will a different White House agenda that promises to
embrace more traditional fossil fuels set a new tone? Danelski-Bender 30" File
photos, graphic of desert power plants (stunning PE art of desert power plants)
ETA: Thursday 6 pm

FULL TEXT

Wind and solar power proponents hope to appeal to Republican President-elect
Donald Trump's desire for economic growth to persuade him to support their
industries.

Their business means jobs, they say, and the president-elect promised lots of
new jobs.

"We are looking at continued growth and investment," said Greg Wetstone,
president and CEO of the American Council on Renewable Energy.

The green-power business is riding on an unprecedented wave, powered largely by
President Barack Obama, who promoted alternative energy development as a way to
counter global warming. And he matched his enthusiasm

with lucrative financial incentives.

At the crest of that wave, alt-energy leaders hope to counter some of what Trump
said about wind and solar energy during his presidential campaign and define
their business as a proven brand of economic development.

On the campaign trail, Trump called global warming a hoax invented by the
Chinese, despite much scientific consensus that supports the threat.

In a radio interview with conservative activist Herman Cain last month, Trump
said: "Solar is very, very expensive. Wind is very, very expensive, and it only
works when it's windy." He also said that Riverside County's San Gorgonio Pass
area "looks like a junkyard" because of aging wind farms. "It's the worst thing
you've ever seen."

Trump also vowed to slash environmental regulations to bolster the oil, gas and
coal industries.

But Trump has yet to speak about energy since the election and has appeared
responsive to advice from Obama and others.

Once in the White House, he'll face growing international consensus on climate
change. At the ongoing United Nations climate talks in Marrakech, conference
chair Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco offered: "Our message to the new American
president is simply to say, 'We count on your pragmatism and your spirit of
commitment.' "

Trump's own stance isn't yet clear. In the same interview with Cain, the
president-elect left the door open to more wind and solar development by adding:
"I'm not saying I'm against those things. I'm for everything. I'm for
everything."

Alternative energy experts, along with local and state officials, said they
don't expect to see a slowdown of residential or commercial solar energy
development in California.

Tim Clark, Trump's California campaign state director, referred questions about
Trump's energy policy to the president-elect's transition team. The team's web
page asks that press inquiries be sent by email. No one on the team responded to
an inquiry for this report.

Jack Pitney, a professor of politics at Claremont McKenna College, said clean
energy probably will do fine if Trump can be convinced of its economic
viability.

"He is a climate skeptic, so I wouldn't emphasize climate change," Pitney said.
"If I am a lobbyist for the solar industry, I would say this is an effective
form of energy and people can make a lot of money selling it, and he'd be OK
with it."

Two days after the election, about 70 energy, state and local officials gathered
in the desert near Blythe to celebrate the opening of two neighboring solar
plants. The McCoy and Blythe facilities blanket more than 6 square miles of
federal land in eastern Riverside County and create enough electricity for about
181,000 households.

The new projects exemplify a maturing industry still on the upswing.

Like several other large-scale solar projects, they were built on federal land
with federal tax credits that covered 30 percent of the $1.2 billion development
cost.

In a deal approved by Congress last year that also helped the oil industry,
those credits for solar will stay at 30 percent through 2019. They'll be phased
down to 10 percent by 2022.

Scott Busa, executive director of development for NextEra Energy, said these
credits, plus already obtained land-use entitlements from the federal Bureau of
Land Management, will allow for the Blythe and McCoy projects to expand in the
coming years and more than double energy output.

"We are only about halfway there, and we look forward to future expansion," he
said.

Karen Douglas, a member of the California Energy Commission, also was at the
Nov. 10 ceremony in the desert. She said policies may shift in Washington, but
California's commitment to clean energy that began in the 1970s is unwavering.

"This is going to continue," said Douglas, standing by a sea of solar panels
extending deep into the desert landscape.

California, she said, must meet its own clean energy mandates, which require
that 50 percent of the state's electricity come from carbon-free sources, such
as solar, wind and geothermal facilities.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1088 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Get ready for a new voting system debuting in 2018

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 713 words



If you voted this fall in a neighborhood garage or the clubhouse of a park or a
school auditorium, remember the experience well. It may not be repeated anytime
soon. If you saw American flags flying at your precinct polling place, that
sight may also disappear.

A whole new election system is about to begin in California, complete with "vote
centers" and a big expansion of early balloting. The new system will start
phasing in in 2018 in 14 counties and should be operative by 2020 everywhere in
the state.

One thing is for sure: Losing candidates and those who expect to lose will have
new fodder for the "rigged election" cry taken up so vocally this fall by
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. With more mail-in ballots
involved than ever before, same-day voter registration and personnel in place to
provide language assistance, charges of fraud will be common at least while the
new system is being broken in.

The hope behind the new system, pushed hard by Democratic Secretary of State
Alex Padilla and signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown, is to increase voter
turnout drastically.

After low turnout disappointed officials in 2014 and the off-year elections of
2013 and 2015, they began casting about for changes. The new system will deliver
mail-in ballots to every registered voter in the 28 days before the actual
Election Day, aiming to end any need to vote in a single place on just one day.

"We've got to ... implement a new voting model," said Democratic state Sen. Ben
Allen of Santa Monica, who sponsored the new system in the Legislature. "Our
current system has failed, as our voter turnout rates continued to decline
toward record lows."

Turnout in both the 2014 primary (25 percent of registered voters) and that
year's November general election (42 percent) was at record lows, making Padilla
and the Legislature a bit desperate to push numbers up.

So instead of voters needing to sign up to receive mail-in ballots for every
election, from now on they will go to everyone automatically. Never mind the
tradition of the secret ballot; everyone from labor unions to employers to
neighborhood groups is now free to hold ballot-marking parties before Election
Day. This has actually been true since mail-in voting became common in the late
1970s, and there have never been charges it led to mass fraud or coerced voting
for particular candidates or causes. But such outcries may arise now.

The guinea pigs for the new system will be voters in Calaveras, Inyo, Madera,
Napa, Nevada, Orange, Sacramento, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Shasta, Sierra, Sutter and Tuolumne counties, with in-person voting at centers
spotted around each county weeks before Election Day. Voters also will be able
to drop off ballots at those centers, rather than mailing them in.

Counties pushed for this, partly as a cost-cutting measure. The fewer polling
places, the lower the cost of an election. But counties moving to the new system
will all have to adopt detailed plans through a system involving public hearings
and input. Community groups, advocates for the disabled and other individuals
all will be able to express preferences for vote center locations. But expect
them to be placed in public buildings where there's either no rent or low rent.

The politicians behind this system claim it will provide far greater flexibility
than long-standing precinct polling places. "It's time to modernize the voting
process," said Democratic state Sen. Robert Hertzberg of Van Nuys, a co-sponsor.
"We need to provide the same convenience and flexibility (people) have in other
areas of their lives. You can stream a movie or deposit a check with your phone
any time, but without this (change), people still have to arrange their busy
schedules to get to a polling place on a single day and that has hurt turnout."

Only time will tell whether all this actually spurs more people to vote. And no
one knows whether the inevitable charges of fraud or vote-fixing will have any
merit. But the people behind the change are certainly correct about one thing:
Turnout had become far too low in recent years, often allowing a small minority
of eligible voters to choose the people who make key decisions for everyone.

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1089 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Court gives taxi competition a green light

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Tuesday editorial on taxi regulations

FULL TEXT

While everyone was preoccupied with the impending elections, and particularly
the presidential race, a federal appeals court quietly issued a pair of rulings
upholding deregulation in the taxi and ridesharing market.

The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals issued two separate rulings last month
affirming decisions that reforms opening up taxi markets to greater competition
in Chicago and Milwaukee did not violate the rights of entrenched taxi
interests. The Chicago case concerned the city's decision to allow ridesharing
services such as Uber and Lyft to operate. In the Milwaukee case, the largest
taxicab operator in the city sued after the city removed the cap on taxi
medallions, which significantly reduced the artificially inflated resale value
of the medallions.

Judge Richard Posner did not mince words in the court's Milwaukee decision: "The
plaintiffs' contention that the increased number of permits has taken property
away from the plaintiffs without compensation, in violation of the
constitutional protection of property, borders on the absurd. Property can take
a variety of forms, some of them intangible, such as patents. But a taxi permit
confers only a right to operate a taxicab (a right which, in Milwaukee, may be
sold). It does not create a right to be an oligopolist, and thus confers no
right to exclude others from operating taxis."

The decisions were hailed by the Institute for Justice, a libertarian
public-interest law firm that represented drivers and entrepreneurs in both
cases, and which also has won legal victories against taxi regulations in
Denver, Minneapolis and Bowling Green, Ohio.

"These cases clear the way for transportation freedom across the country," the
institute's Senior Attorney Anthony Sanders said in a statement. "For too long,
cities across the country have embraced an outdated mode of transportation
regulation that says competition is to be feared and that freedom for taxi
drivers or other transportation entrepreneurs is unthinkable. Today's rulings
confirm that there is absolutely no legal barrier to other cities' joining the
rising wave of cities embracing transportation freedom."

Ridesharing services have sparked a flurry of regulatory activity, both for
better and for worse. Initially, governments rushed to impose regulations on the
renegade disrupters, particularly in large cities with powerful traditional taxi
interests. But, as consumers have increasingly rendered their verdict in favor
of ridesharers, and the inevitability of the success of the new business model
has set in, there has been a backlash wave of deregulation - for both
ridesharing companies and taxis.

San Diego followed Milwaukee's lead, lifting its cap on taxi permits two years
ago, and cities across the nation - from Portland, Oregon, to Salt Lake City to
Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, to Sarasota, Florida - have deregulated in recent
years.

This is a great victory for entrepreneurs looking to make a living and
consumers, who benefit from the increased competition in the form of lower
prices and better service. Now, if only occupational licensing laws and other
regulatory and protectionist barriers could be brought down in equal measure and
fervor in other industries.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1090 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Today in history

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words

ABSTRACT

Hist 11-22

FULL TEXT

1718

English pirate Edward Teach - better-known as "Blackbeard" - was killed during a
battle off present-day North Carolina.

1914

The First Battle of Ypres during World War I ended with an Allied victory
against Germany.

1963

John F. Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States, was shot to death
during a motorcade in Dallas; Texas Gov. John B. Connally, riding in the same
car as Kennedy, was seriously wounded; suspected gunman Lee Harvey Oswald was
arrested.

1955

Comic Shemp Howard of "Three Stooges" fame died in Hollywood at age 60.

1965

The musical "Man of La Mancha" opened on Broadway. Singer-songwriter Bob Dylan
married Sara Lownds (the marriage lasted 12 years).

1975

Juan Carlos was proclaimed King of Spain.

1989

Rene Mouawad was killed by a bomb after serving 17 days as president of Lebanon.

1990

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, having failed to win re-election of
the Conservative Party leadership on the first ballot, announced she would
resign.

2006

A chemical factory explosion in Danvers, Massachusetts, destroyed the
surrounding neighborhood but caused no deaths or serious injuries.

2011

Baseball players and owners signed an agreement for a new labor contract, a deal
making baseball the first North American professional major league to start
blood testing on human growth hormone and expanding the playoffs to 10 teams by
2013. Ryan Braun was voted the NL MVP after helping the Milwaukee Brewers win
their first division title in nearly 30 years. Death claimed France's former
first lady Danielle Mitterrand at age 87 and Svetlana Alliluyeva, daughter of
Soviet dictator Josef Stalin, at age 85. Soldier-turned-soap opera star J.R.
Martinez and his professional partner, Karina Smirnoff, were named champions of
season 13 of ABC's "Dancing with the Stars."

2015

Trying to reassure a nation on edge, President Barack Obama said in Malaysia
that the Islamic State group "cannot strike a mortal blow" against the U.S., and
he warned that overreacting to the Paris attacks would play into extremists'
hands. Opposition candidate Mauricio Macri won Argentina's presidential
election, marking an end to the left-leaning era of President Cristina
Fernandez. Former South Korean President Kim Young-sam, 87, who led the
country's transition to democracy, died in Seoul. Actress and artist Adele
Morales Mailer, 90, died in New York. Novak Djokovic won his fourth straight
title at the season-ending ATP finals by beating six-time champion Roger Federer
6-3, 6-4. Kyle Busch won his first career Sprint Cup title claiming the season
finale at Homestead-Miami Speedway. One Direction won artist of the year at the
American Music Awards.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1091 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Trump victory brings 'alt-right' into full view

BYLINE: Jay Reeves; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 481 words


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. >> Donald Trump's election is bringing to the fore a strain of
race-based politics once so far out of the mainstream few had even heard of it.

With an ideology that's a mix of racism, white nationalism and old-fashioned
populism, the "alt-right" has burst into the collective consciousness since
members showed up at the Republican National Convention to celebrate Trump's
nomination last summer.

When one of its leaders, Richard Spencer, gave a speech in Washington last
Saturday at an alt-right conference attended by a couple of hundred people, The
Atlantic was there with a video camera that captured the Nazi-style salutes of
people.

"Hail Trump, hail our people, hail victory!" Spencer said to cheers that were
shown in video snippets that have since been viewed.

What does Spencer mean by "our people"? Whites. Spencer directs the National
Policy Institute, which describes itself as "dedicated to the heritage, identity
and future of people of European descent in the United States and around the
world."

It is Spencer who is widely credited with coming up with the term "alt-right,"
or "alternative-right," about eight years go.

While members of the movement are getting more attention than ever, the head of
the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism said Tuesday there is not much
new in its message.

"The hatred and bigotry that is at the core of alt-right ideology has not
changed," center director Oren Segal said in an interview conducted by private
messaging. "What has changed is the name, their packaging and the stated belief
that they have a champion in the highest office."

Richard Cohen, president of the Alabama-based Southern Poverty Law Center, an
organization that tracks hate groups, said the alt-right is "a rebranding of
white nationalism." Cohen called it "the energy behind the avalanche of racist
and anti-Semitic harassment that plagued social media platforms for the entire
presidential campaign."

Cohen's comments came in a statement about Trump's decision to fill his chief
strategist slot with Steve Bannon, who formerly ran Breitbart News, a website
popular with members of the alt-right. Indeed, much of the alt-right exists
online only, for all practical purposes.

While the Ku Klux Klan or neo-Nazis might have public rallies, people associated
with the alt-right are more likely to spread their beliefs in online forums or
on social media like Twitter. They tend more toward memes than marches; subjects
can include criticism of Jews and claims that white Americans are under attack
by minority groups.

Trump aides and advisers have tried to distance him from the beliefs of the
alt-right. In a meeting Tuesday with editors and reporters of The New York
Times, Trump said of the alt-right: "I don't want to energize the group, and I
disavow the group."

But members of the alt-right, including Spencer, are vocal in their support of
Trump.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1092 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

L.A. MAYOR AND TRUMP TALK

BYLINE: Anita Bennett and Ryan Carter; Staff Writers

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 641 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and President-elect Donald Trump hold phone
conversation.

FULL TEXT

Amid growing concerns among Los Angeles leaders about what the future may hold
when President-elect Donald Trump takes office, L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti spoke
with Trump on Wednesday by telephone in what was described as a "productive
conversation."

The two discussed "ways to expand infrastructure investments and opportunities
in communities across America," the mayor's spokeswoman Connie Llanos said in a
statement.

"Mayor Garcetti underlined the need for the federal government to continue being
a strong partner in these efforts," she said.

Among the other issues brought up during the call were L.A.'s Olympic bid -
which Trump voiced support for - and immigration, according to Llanos.

"The mayor stressed the important role that immigrants and immigration reform
will play in L.A.'s - and the nation's - long-term success," Llanos said.

Garcetti's office said that the mayor had reached out to the Trump camp, and the
president-elect placed the brief call. The office did not remark on the tone of
the conversation.

Trump has frequently spoken out about his desires to deport undocumented
immigrants, and in an interview with "60 Minutes" that aired on Nov. 13, he said
he planned to immediately deport 2 million to 3 million undocumented immigrants
who "have criminal records" after his inauguration.

Garcetti was a strong supporter of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary
Clinton and had been a frequent Trump critic.

In a July speech at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, Garcetti
had strong remarks for Trump.

"Donald Trump has no vision for our country, and no genuine answers to our
challenges," he said about the then-Republican nominee.

Months earlier, Garcetti called Trump the "ultimate caricature" of a politician
who would say anything to get elected.

"What we can't do with Donald Trump is normalize him as a candidate," Garcetti
said in a May 24 conference call with reporters. "He's a racist, he's a bigot,
he's sexist."

But on Wednesday, local leaders said the dialogue was vital, with much at stake
in the relationship between Washington and Los Angeles.

"I'm thrilled to hear that there is a dialogue," said L.A. City Councilman Mitch
Englander, who represents parts of the San Fernando Valley. "We have an
umbilical cord to federal dollars that can't be severed."

Councilman Jos[#xfffd] Huizar, whose district includes Boyle Heights, elaborated
on the city's needs.

"I hope they talked about our aging infrastructure and the lack of affordable
housing funds coming from the federal government and the need to ramp that
effort up," Huizar said in a statement, adding that Trump needed to know that
homeless funding was a huge challenge in a city where mental health issues
affect a third of those without shelter.

"And, of course, immigration - we hope the president-elect understands that we
are a city of immigrants and there is no advantage to anybody if we tear
families apart and remove children and young people from the only country they
have ever known and loved."

Garcetti's Wednesday conversation with Trump came one day after L.A. County
Supervisor Hilda Solis warned that changes to federal policy proposed by Trump
could lead to the deportation of nearly half a million county residents.

"It seems that standing up for our people's constitutional rights is going to
fall on the hands of state and local governments," Solis said Tuesday.

As she spoke during a news conference in downtown L.A., Solis said the Board of
Supervisors had unanimously approved a motion that asks the Sheriff's Department
and other law enforcement agencies "to proactively contact communities likely to
be targeted to reassure them of support of their policy of not inquiring about
immigration status of victims or witnesses."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1093 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Trump Cabinet choices: 2 women;
Gov. Nikki Haley picked to be U.S. ambassador to UN, Betsy DeVos to top
Education

BYLINE: Julie Bykowicz and Steve Peoples; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 966 words

ABSTRACT

President-elect Donald Trump has chosen two women for his Cabinet-in-waiting:
South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations and prominent charter school advocate Betsy DeVos as his secretary of
education

FULL TEXT

PALM BEACH, Fla. >> Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald
Trump selected two Republican women on Wednesday who disparaged him during the
presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate Betsy DeVos to lead
the federal Department of Education.

Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet Trump praised her as "a proven
dealmaker." DeVos, like Trump, is new to government but has spent decades
working to change America's system of public education.

DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts
as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is
the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minority
selection after a string of announcements of

white men.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role, which would make him the first black choice - presumably as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development - but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it
over the Thanksgiving holiday.

"I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our
inner cities great for everyone," Carson wrote on his Facebook page.

Wednesday's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the "alt-right,"
a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election.

He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with
family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving. He's
spending the holiday there after a week of interviews of potential appointees in
New York, punctuated by announcements of members of his national security team.

Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections was evident through much
of this year's campaign.

"The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley!" Trump wrote in
March. Haley denounced several of his campaign comments and urged voters to
"reject the siren call of the angriest voices."

DeVos told The Associated Press in July, "A lot of the things he has said are
very off-putting and concerning."

On Wednesday, Trump said of his U.N. selection: "Gov. Haley has a proven track
record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation
to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our
country."

She said she loved her South Carolina post but "when the president believes you
have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our
nation's standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed."

While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and
right.

The president of the National Education Association, Lily Eskelsen Garcia, said
in a statement that for years DeVos "has lobbied for failed schemes, like
vouchers - which take away funding and local control from our public schools -
to fund private schools at taxpayers' expense."

And Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, tweeted,
"Trump has chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the
creation of the Dept of Education."

At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor,
who has spent millions of dollars - along with her husband - to promote
candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the
Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign.

Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that
climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign
vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.

DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a "Q&A" statement that said directly
about Common Core: "I am not a supporter - period."

"I do support high standards," she said. But along the way Common Core "got
turned into a federal boondoggle."

Just two weeks ago, Trump shocked the political world - including many in his
own party - by winning the presidential contest. The billionaire New Yorker has
yet to take any formal steps to separate from his international business empire
as experts in both parties warn of potential conflicts of interest.

Trump will be sworn into office in less than 60 days. Beyond his Cabinet, he
must fill hundreds of high-level administration posts.

Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of
state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and
Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
formerly an outspoken Trump critic.

After secretary of state, the U.N. ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic
position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international
stage.

As for DeVos, her family has been active in Republican politics for decades,
especially as donors. Her husband, Dick, is an heir to the Amway fortune and a
former president of the company.

The American Federation for Children Action Fund, which DeVos chairs, and its
state-affiliated PACs invested in 121 races in 12 states in the general
election, spending spent $210,000 to support "pro-school choice" candidates in
Oklahoma alone.

"Under her leadership we will reform the U.S. education system and break the
bureaucracy that is holding our children back so that we can deliver world-class
education and school choice to all families," Trump said.

DeVos said in her own statement, "The status quo in education is not
acceptable."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1094 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Food not feud at the table;
Happy holiday: How to remain civil while talking political turkey today

BYLINE: Jeff Horseman; jhorseman@scng.com, @JeffHorseman

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

ABSTRACT

PE_R_POLITURKEY_1123 | Thanksgiving is a time for feasting, family get-togethers
and the inevitable dinner table screaming match between your arch-conservative
uncle and his ultra-liberal niece. With Donald Trump's election provoking strong
reactions, this Thanksgiving's politics talk could be even more intense. We talk
with experts to see if there's any way to make these debates more civil and
perhaps give liberals and conservatives resources to find talking points.
Reporter/Editor: Horseman/Bender Length: 33 Art: TK ETA: 5 p.m. Tuesday

FULL TEXT

"Pass the gravy. I'll have some more stuffing. Oh, and Uncle Bob, why do you
hate America?"

Such table talk might be a staple of your Thanksgiving dinner. But while
politics discussed over cranberry sauce is nothing new, this year's dinner-time
debate could be especially intense in the wake of November's divisive
presidential election.

"When it comes to politics, people get emotional because it relates to their
belief system," said Bart Rossi, a political psychologist who frequently appears
on TV news shows.

"They're not just challenging Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. It's your
personal belief system, which is serious stuff."

John Berry, a cabinet member of the Redlands Tea Party Patriots who loves to
talk politics, plans to spend Thanksgiving in Laguna Beach with his in-laws.

"Inside, I'm doing a Snoopy-like happy

dance," said Berry, who describes himself as "surrounded by liberals."

At Thanksgiving dinner, Berry said he will bite the inside of his cheeks to keep
from gloating.

"It's kind of funny. When the liberals won in 2008, they weren't shy about
expressing their opinion," Berry added. "But if they bring it up, I'm going to
give it to them both barrels."

The chances of your turkey coming with a side of discord could rise if your
relatives are geographically scattered. This election underscored deep divisions
between different parts of the country. California went strongly for Hillary
Clinton, but Donald Trump did better in the South and Rust Belt.

Before you lose your voice screaming at your niece about her Bernie Sanders
tattoo, here are some strategies for keeping the food and politics separate - or
at least, arguing in a way that won't cause anyone to storm off.

Expect the best

For many, just the thought of hearing Cousin Mike talk about immigration is
enough to cause heartburn hours before the first spoonful of Aunt Jane's
jalapeño-infused cheese dip.

Kate Sweeny, a UC Riverside associate psychology professor who studies how
people cope with uncertain waiting periods, suggests distracting yourself in a
way that completely consumes you. Maybe it's video games. Or it could be
gardening or getting a head start on that work project.

You could plan responses in advance, Sweeny said. For example, if your father
shows up in his "Make America Great Again" hat, say "Nice hat!" and change the
subject.

Sweeny also suggests not assuming the worst will happen. "I do think in this
sort of circumstance, expecting the best can only help you," Sweeny said. "If
you go in expecting the worst behavior, you might create a self-fulfilling
prophecy."

Thanksgiving hosts need to be prepared for how to handle political talk, said
Tim Muehlhoff, a professor of communications at Biola University in La Mirada.
"In addition to assessing what stuffing to make, a host couple needs to assess
the overall communication climate that will envelop the day's activities," he
said.

Reciting Abraham Lincoln's Thanksgiving Day proclamation from 1863 is a
Thanksgiving tradition for Huntington Beach resident Ken Gordon's family.

"It's a good time to bring up and point out to our children how much more
faith-based our nation was," said Gordon, 52, a decline-to-state/unaffiliated
voter who said he left the Republican Party.

This Thanksgiving, Gordon also anticipates talking about the party of Lincoln.
"I think, at the time of this proclamation, (the GOP was) the party of the
disenfranchised," he said. "I would not say that any longer."

Locker room talk

An easy way to avoid a yam-fueled shouting match over Trump's tax policy is to
make clear ahead of time that there's no space on the table for a family edition
of CNN's "Crossfire."

Bill Southworth, a professor of speech and debate history at the University of
Redlands, recommends a "locker room" edict.

"There are two subjects never to be discussed in the locker room - politics and
religion," he said. "All family gatherings (especially those with split voters)
should agree not to mention Clinton or Trump or anything about the election. If
violated, the offending party should leave or the guest should feel free to
depart."

Rossi, the political psychologist, suggests taking the blame for a moratorium.
"(Say) 'I've been especially involved (with this election). At this point in
time, I could use a day to relax and eat some turkey,'" he said.

You also can limit your political discussions to those with like-minded
viewpoints. "This way, you will find yourself talking to family and friends who
support your feelings and perspective," said David Kaplan, a family counselor
and chief professional officer of the American Counseling Association.

"Given the divisiveness of the recent election, trying to vent to someone who
voted for the candidate you opposed or to change their perspective is just going
to make you feel worse."

Radine Hiers, a Moreno Valley Democrat, said she won't be inviting any family
members "who disregarded the rights of any Americans."

"Never have I ever limited differing political views from my life. I really like
political debate," she said. "They could have voted for any other candidate. But
when they crossed into the very apparent and blatantly exposed racism ... (it)
is a line I will no longer accept."

How to argue

Avoidance and positivity have failed. Now, your sister-in-law demands to know
why you voted for "Crooked Hillary."

First, swallow the green beans. Then, rather than call her stupid, "(Say) 'I'm
on the other side and here's why,'" Rossi said. "Highlight as succinctly as
possible why you feel this way.

"You're not arguing to win the argument or change somebody else's personality.
You're just trying to get your point in and move on."

Listening also is important, Rossi said. "Be able to say back to the person what
they said. You can say 'I heard you and you said this. This is why I'm on the
other side of it.'"

You also could point out why you disagree even though you stand to benefit from
the election's outcome, Rossi said.

"Let's suppose you don't really like Donald Trump ... but let's say you get a
really big tax advantage (with his election)," he said. "You could say 'I
actually stand to gain in some ways. However, I'm really on the other side of
everything he stands for.' Or vice versa with Hillary Clinton."

Steven Smith, 29, of Riverside, who said he was "very disappointed" with the
election results, plans to host a family Thanksgiving.

"If anything, I want to take this day to be positive and remember why we are
eating (and) remember the reasons to be thankful and hopeful for the future."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1095 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 395 words

ABSTRACT

For TDB

FULL TEXT

           Trump is trying to bring the country together

Re "California votes to beat of its own drum" (Editorial, Nov. 11) and "Leave
divisive narratives behind us now" (Editorial, Nov. 15):

Kudos to the Daily Breeze for its editorials. You are right on - California is
really out of touch with what the rest of the country is feeling right now and
is determined to keep its liberal stance on all manner of issues, from its
choice of president to all the ballot measures that passed.

Now that the rest of the country has spoken, we do need to come together and try
to get this country going again. I believe that President-elect Donald Trump is
genuinely trying to do that, as evidenced by his consideration for his Cabinet
of former rivals for the Republican presidential nomination, even those who were
bitterly opposed to him.

With the Republican majority in both the executive and legislative branches and
as well as many of the governorships, this could be the chance of a lifetime to
really turn things around in this country and make things better for everyone!

- Clare Burr, Los Angeles

Lincoln and Calexit

Re "Should California split from the U.S.?" (Question of the Week, Nov. 15):

Shades of John Calhoun, states' rights, nullification and secession, this
burgeoning talk of Calexit ignores the lessons of the Civil War, which I had
thought were firmly impressed in our national consciousness.

Abraham Lincoln put it concisely in his first inaugural address, March 4, 1861:

"I hold that in contemplation of universal law and of the Constitution the union
of these states is perpetual. ...

"It follows ... that no state upon its own mere motion can lawfully get out of
the Union; that resolves and ordinances to that effect are legally void; and
that acts of violence, within any state or states, against the authority of the
United States, are insurrectionary or revolutionary, according to circumstances.

"I, therefore, consider that, in view of the Constitution and the laws, the
Union is unbroken. ...

"... we find the proposition that in legal contemplation the Union is perpetual
confirmed by the history of the Union itself."

Let us realize that we are all in this union together, for better or worse, and
our efforts would be better spent to make a more perfect union than trying to
undo it.

- Carl Pearlston, Torrance

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1096 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Corbynization of Democratic Party

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 941 words


The Democratic Party's current festival of re-examination is both necessary and
justified. They have just lost to the most unpopular presidential candidate in
recent memory. Lockstep media support and a much larger war chest were not
enough to save them from losing not only the presidency, but also in state races
across the country.

Since President Obama's first election, Democrats have lost control of the House
and Senate, as well as a dozen governors' houses and roughly 900 state
legislative seats. Republicans have control of all levels of government in 24
states, while Democrats have total control over six. Overall, the party seems
incapable of reaching out to the middle part of the country, white and
middle-class voters.

This contrasts with the 1990s, when a group of party activists consciously
rebuilt the party to appeal to middle-class Americans. Groups like the
Democratic Leadership Council - for whose think tank, the Progressive Policy
Institute, I worked for several years - pushed notions of personal
responsibility, welfare reform, tough crime policies and economic growth that,
embraced by Bill Clinton, expanded the party's base in the Midwest, the
Appalachians and even the Southeast.

Leftward Ho!

Such a shift to the middle is unlikely today. Progressives generally see Hillary
Clinton's loss as largely a rejection of her husband's neoliberal policies and
want to push the party further to the left.

This parallels developments in the United Kingdom, where, following their defeat
in 2015, the La

bour Party promoted a far-left figure, Jeremy Corbyn, as its leader. This was
driven by grassroots progressives - deeply green, multiculturalist and openly
socialist. Many, including several high up in Labour's parliamentary party,
believe the party has little chance to win under such leadership.

Democrats face a similar dilemma. Driven by their dominant academic and media
"thought police," any shift to the middle on issues like crime, climate change
or regulation now seems unimaginable. Self-described progressives who now
dominate the party generally adhere to a series of policies - from open borders
to draconian climate change policies - that are unlikely to play well outside
the coastal enclaves.

Some of the criticism of Clintonian neoliberalism is somewhat justified. As the
emergence of both Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump suggests, support for
globalization and free trade has weakened in both parties. This reflects the
fact that economic gains have become increasingly concentrated since Clinton
left office, and even under the progressive hero, Barack Obama. It's hard to
argue, as the DLC did 25 years ago, for a more market-based system when the vast
majority fail to benefit while the upper echelons do much better.

So it is no surprise, then, that the hyperregulatory and redistributionist
agendas epitomized by Sens. Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders are now
ascendant. This pattern is exacerbated by the party's increasing indifference to
economic growth, in large part, due to their embrace of draconian climate change
policies. Climate change policies, as now constituted, tend to suppress
higher-wage, blue-collar employment. If you give up on growth to save the
planet, the only real solution remaining is massive redistribution, including a
web of subsidies to make up for the lack of income growth, affordable housing
and economic opportunity.

The multiculti trap

The Corbynization of the Democratic Party also turns on militant
multiculturalism. This agenda is shaped, as in Britain, by a disjointed concert
of grievance groups, ranging from gender activists to those who claim to
represent Latinos, African Americans, Asians, Muslims and others, whose
alienation has been exacerbated by Trump's triumph. Trump's nationalist rhetoric
is particularly disliked by progressives who, as author and New America fellow
Michael Lind notes in a recent National Review column, find the very idea of
borders and national interests reactionary and inherently racist.

This identity politics, some liberals note, has driven many whites into a
defensive crouch and pushed them toward the Republicans. Yet, there is little
sign that the party will move in their direction. After all, Hillary labeled
them "deplorables" - not much of a sales pitch. After the election, progressive
journalists have portrayed Trump voters as irredeemably racist, misogynist,
stupid and even too "fat." Summing up, suggests Slate's Jamelle Bouie, there's
no such thing as a "good Trump voter."

Inside the progressive echo chamber, many still believe that an alliance of
minorities, gender activists and millennials will make their victory inevitable.
This can be seen in the tendency of Democrats, just as there is a palpable rise
in crime, to invite the militant Black Lives Matter movement into their tent.

Perhaps nothing more illustrates the Corbynite trend than the proposal to make
Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
Ellison does check off the diversity boxes, but also would place in party
leadership someone who has embraced the Nation of Islam, supports the boycott of
Israeli products and has compared 9-11 to the Reichstag fire that facilitated
the Nazi dictatorship.

Going left may be emotionally satisfying to Democrats who feel abandoned by
their less progressive fellow citizens. But abandoning the middle of the
spectrum does not seem an effective way to get back into power.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1097 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Why Sanchez's hopes went south

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 634 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

Virtually every aspect of the presidential election has been broken down and
analyzed by experts and pundits, who are still in a state of shock over the
results. Because President-elect Donald Trump's victory caught almost everyone
by surprise, don't expect this analysis to slow down any time soon.

Getting lost in the shuffle were many of the down-ballot races that also
produced fascinating results.

Take for example, the contest to see who would replace retiring U.S. Sen.
Barbara Boxer as California's junior senator.

All of the public polls had Golden State Attorney General Kamala Harris
comfortably ahead of Orange County Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez in the Democrat
vs. Democrat match up. And I think it's safe to say that most experts
anticipated a comfortable Harris victory. What nobody expected was the 62-38
percent shellacking that Sanchez ended up taking.

There is no way to sugarcoat this, she got creamed.

Now, I'd be lying to you if I didn't say that the perennially undisciplined
Sanchez made a bunch of gaffes that contributed to her defeat.

She did.

But her missteps aren't what caused her to lose. The cake, in many ways, was
already baked.

Way back in July, the bigwigs in the Northern California-dominated California
Democratic Party put the word out that Harris was their preferred candidate.
This move effectively cut off any chance Sanchez had at raising money, winning
influential endorsements and getting the party rank and file behind her.

Not only did Harris pick up the endorsements of California Gov. Jerry Brown and
the California Democratic Party, she also got the blessing of President Obama
and Vice President Joe Biden.

In a written statement released by the Harris campaign, the president and vice
president said, "Kamala Harris fights for us. That's why I'm so proud to endorse
her for United States senator. ... And if you send her to the Senate, she'll be
a fearless fighter for the people of California - all the people of California -
every single day."

There's mass speculation that former San Francisco Mayor and current California
Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom could get the same kind of home cooking in his bid for
governor in 2018.

And If another former San Francisco Mayor, Dianne Feinstein, decides to seek
another six-year-term in the U.S. Senate in 2018, her support within the
Democratic Party will surely be locked down.

The most likely outcome is that the Northern California dominance of the state's
top-of-the-ticket offices will continue for another generation.

How did this happen when most of the state's population lives south of
Bakersfield? Easy. A clique of San Francisco Bay politicians control the
Democratic Party in a one-party state, and they take care of their friends and
neighbors.

Just look at the roster; Jerry Brown is a former mayor of Oakland, House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi represents San Francisco in Congress, California
Democratic Party Chairman John Burton used to represent San Francisco in the
state Legislature, and Democratic Party sugar daddy Tom Steyer resides in the
City by the Bay.

At a certain point, Southern California Democrats will have to accept the
reality that they've hit their political ceiling when they become a big-city
mayor or congressman, or a state legislative leader.

Or, they're going to have to beat the machine.

Option B is easier said than done and would require the type of
coalition-building that Sanchez was incapable of doing, which would almost
certainly involve California Republicans.

Eventually, some politician will beat the machine. The only question is when.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1098 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Red state/blue state: Where would you rather live?

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 715 words


"The pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue
states," Barack Obama famously observed in 2004, several years before he ran for
president. "But I've got news for them: There's the United States of America."

Twelve years later, Obama is about to depart the White House, and by now he has
probably learned there are significant differences between so-called "red"
states that tend to vote Republican in presidential elections and "blue" ones
that usually support Democrats. The colors, of course, come from maps often used
as television graphics during election coverage.

What are some of those differences? While campaigning - at least before Donald
Trump - Republicans have tended to focus on values, claiming families and
traditional marriages are stronger in red states than blue ones, while Democrats
contend poor people, minorities and women are better off in blue ones.

California, of course, has been a consistently blue state since 1992, when Bill
Clinton carried it with a plurality of the vote against the elder George Bush,
not winning an actual majority here until 1996.

Republicans often say California Democrats have wrecked the Golden State over
the last 25 years, citing what they insist is a declining quality of life and an
expanded role for government.

It's true Democrats have dominated the Legislature almost all that time, passing
laws that regulate everything from cellphone use in cars to teaching about gay
history in high schools. A "nanny state," many Republicans call it, ignoring the
fact Republican governors like Pete Wilson and Arnold Schwarzenegger signed off
on most of the new regulations Democrats passed in the last quarter-century.

Ethnically speaking, California became blue when its Latinos began to get
politically active. But in many other ways, this is statistically a pretty
standard blue state, and there are major differences between those states and
their red rivals. Here are some (based on U.S. Census data):

o Blue states tend to have a more educated populace; California is fairly
typical with 37.4 percent of adults holding college degrees. Deeply blue
Massachusetts (despite its Republican governor) ranks first in this category
with 53.4 percent of adults holding at least a bachelor's degree. At the bottom
in this category is a corps of red states including Alaska at 26.6 percent,
Texas at 32.2 percent and Arizona with 33 percent.

o Red states tend to have a far higher percentage of people abusing drugs, led
by West Virginia with 25.8 persons out of every 100,000 dying of drug overdoses
each year, Utah with 18.4 and Alaska 18.1 in 2008, the last year for which
statistics are available. Red states like Louisiana, Arizona, Alabama, Oklahoma
and Tennessee all topped 14 per 100,000 in this sad category. California, again
in drug abuse a fairly normal blue state, saw only 10.4 persons out of every
100,000 take fatal overdoses, both from illegal drugs and prescription ones.
(Statistics from the Policy Impact Report of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.)

o A little counterintuitive, the map of states with the highest Census-reported
divorce rates is also almost all red, including Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alaska,
Alabama, Kentucky, Nevada (the only blue state here, but also the only state
with an active quickie divorce industry), Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee and
Arizona.

o Unemployment, on the other hand, is a mixed bag. In the latest Department of
Labor statistics, three red states (Alaska, Louisiana and West Virginia) are
among the top six, with Alaska leading the unfortunate way at 6.7 percent, but
they are joined by three usually blue states (Illinois, New Mexico and the
District of Columbia).

o Red state citizens tend to be more charitable, with the eight states donating
the highest share of their personal income to charity - Utah, Mississippi,
Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina, Idaho, Arkansas and Georgia - all pretty
reliably Republican. (Data from the Chronicle of Philanthropy.)

All of which raises some questions: Do Republican "family values" equate to
higher divorce rates and lower college education? Does going Democratic make
people less charitable? Or are none of these things linked to politics at all?

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1099 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 359 words

ABSTRACT

For all LANG papers

FULL TEXT

We asked readers, What should be Donald Trump's top priority as president?


New president should let Constitution be his guide

Donald Trump's top priority should be to learn and understand the Constitution
and the complexity of the presidency. I'm totally devastated by the outcome of
this presidential election, which was predicated on hate, fear, racism, bigotry
and lies.

Having the likes of a man like Trump becoming president of the U.S. is
frightening. I am hoping that this glorious country of ours isn't decimated by
this uninformed man who truly doesn't know how the U.S. government operates.

The job of the president is too important to hand over to a man not qualified,
who has a volatile temperament and is thin-skinned to criticism.

- Lois Eisenberg, Valencia

First, close the border

Trump should close the border first, stop the chaos and support the border
guards.

- Patricia Serio, Covina

Quit while he's ahead?

President-elect Trump's top priority should be resigning from office before he's
impeached.

- Ray Sherman, Duarte

A neutral view of Trump

I don't know what to think about Donald Trump's plans. Some I support, others I
don't. Love him or deplore him, he's got everyone's attention and it's been a
compelling story to watch unfold. Who knows what drama, success and failures
will emerge in the next four years?

One concern is how all the major news media lost credibility with biased
reporting. I commend the newspaper for trying to remain neutral.

- Lynn Wood, Long Beach

Follow the popular vote

He lost by more than 2 million votes; he should accept that he was not the
choice of the American people, and not accept a prize that he did not earn. He
can instruct electors pledged to him to vote for the real winner: Hillary
Clinton.

Let him avoid the example of Sarah Palin, who learned she couldn't be the boss
of everything and quit in the middle of her term as Alaska governor to make more
money.

- Stephen Kandis, Rancho Palos Verdes

More answers to this Question of the Week will be published Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1100 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Officials denounce Trump's fraud claim;
Election authorities say

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 708 words

ABSTRACT

LDN-Z-TRUMP-FRAUD-CAL | Los Angeles County's elections chief denounced
allegations by President-elect Donald Trump of widespread election fraud,
calling it a "broad brush" accusation without substantiation that threatens to
undermine public confidence in the system. And California Secretary of State
Alex Padilla called the claims "baseless." From City News and AP 16" File photos
ETA: 3 PM

FULL TEXT

When President-elect Donald Trump claimed on Twitter that he was losing the
popular vote because of major fraud by millions of voters, one of the states he
pointed to was California, where the latest voting returns showed Hillary
Clinton, the Democrat, soundly defeating Trump.

But Trump's claim led to a furious reaction from California's top election
official, Alex Padilla, the secretary of state, this past weekend. Padilla
asserted that there was no evidence for the claim by the president-elect and
denounced Trump for what he said was unpresidential behavior.

"His unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in California and elsewhere are
absurd," Padilla posted on Twitter. "His reckless tweets are inappropriate and
unbecoming of a president-elect."

Los Angeles County's elec

tions chief also denounced the allegations, calling it a "broad brush"
accusation without substantiation that threatens to undermine public confidence
in the system.

"It is frustrating to see this ongoing politicization of the voting process even
as California elections administrators continue the tedious and transparent
process of canvassing the Nov. 8 general election," said Dean Logan, the
county's registrar-recorder/county clerk and president of the California
Association of Clerks and Election Officials.

"Broad brush allegations of voter fraud and illegal voting serve only to
undermine the public's trust and confidence in the elections process and run the
risk of further deflating voter participation," he said. "California elections
administrators take the integrity of elections and access to voting very
seriously. Our state has a history of accurate and accountable elections.
Additionally, the voting process in California is open, transparent and subject
to public oversight and review."

California has historically been slow to count ballots, a reflection of both its
vast size and inefficiencies in many county voting operations. Given the fact
that this is an overwhelmingly Democratic state, that has meant that Clinton's
total vote count has grown steadily as ballots were tallied, adding to a
national lead of close to 2 million votes.

As of Saturday, Clinton had 8.1 million votes in California, compared with 4.2
million for Trump, according to the secretary of state's office. It was not
clear when the vote count might be concluded.

The count, and outcome, has been no surprise to anyone in a state with a history
of slow vote-counting. Officials in both parties had predicted this would happen
as early as election night.

Given California's long Democratic history, it was never in play during this
presidential election. But as the nation's most populated state, it tends to
have a significant influence on final national voting margins, as is apparently
the case this year.

Trump singled out three states in his tweet on "serious voter fraud": Virginia,
New Hampshire and California. He offered no evidence to back up the claim.

His remarks came as he denounced calls for a recount in three states that he won
by relatively small margins: Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. Jill Stein,
who was the Green Party candidate for president, said that she would move for a
recount. Aides to Clinton said they would cooperate with the effort, even as
they made it clear they thought it would not change the outcome.

Padilla is the highest-ranking Latino elected to state office in California.
Trump's poor showing here, many Democrats and Republicans said, came in no small
part because of his attacks on what he described as the threat of illegal
immigration, particularly by Mexicans. About 40 percent of California's
population is Latino.

"It appears that Mr. Trump is troubled by the fact that a growing majority of
Americans did not vote for him," Padilla said.

City News Service and New York Times News Service contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1101 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Trump to name Treasury choice;
Former Goldman Sachs partner who has worked in Hollywood finance expected to be
tapped

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words


WASHINGTON >> Steven Terner Mnuchin, a financier with deep roots on Wall Street
and in Hollywood but no government experience, is expected to be named Donald J.
Trump's Treasury secretary as soon as today, sources close to the transition
say.

Mnuchin, 53, was the national finance chairman for Trump's campaign. He began
his career at Goldman Sachs, where he became a partner, before creating his own
hedge fund, moving to the West Coast and entering the first rank of movie
financiers by bankrolling hits like the "X-Men" franchise and "Avatar."

As Treasury secretary, Mnuchin would play an important role in shaping the
administration's economic policies, including a package of promised tax cuts,
increased spending on infrastructure and changes in the terms of foreign trade.
He could also help lead any effort to roll back President Barack Obama's nuclear
deal with Iran and

opening to Cuba by reimposing sanctions on Tehran and Havana.

His selection fits uneasily with much of Trump's campaign rhetoric attacking the
financial industry. Trump, in a campaign ad intended as a closing argument,
portrayed the chief executive of Goldman Sachs as the personification of a
global elite that the ad said had "robbed our working class."

But Mnuchin has said that he agrees with Trump's priorities, and he was an early
supporter of a candidate who clearly prizes loyalty.

When Trump won New York's Republican presidential primary in April, Mnuchin
attended the victory party. The next day, he accepted Trump's invitation to
become the campaign's national finance director.

Mnuchin, the son of a Goldman Sachs partner, joined the firm after graduating
from Yale University. He worked there for 17 years, rising to oversee trading in
government securities and mortgage bonds.

Mnuchin has never worked in government, but Treasury secretaries are often drawn
from the private sector. He would become the third Goldman alumnus to serve in
the job, after Henry M. Paulson Jr., under President George W. Bush; and Robert
E. Rubin, under President Bill Clinton.

Elaine Chao

She is a woman and an immigrant, a fixture of the Republican establishment for
two decades. She is a savvy and professional practitioner of the capital's
inside game.

And now she is going to work for President-elect Donald Trump.

Trump named Elaine L. Chao on Tuesday as his choice to be the next secretary of
transportation, elevating someone whose background and experience are in many
respects completely at odds with the brash and disruptive tenor of his
anti-Washington campaign.

But her selection also signaled Trump's understanding of the need to surround
himself with people who can help him accomplish the most ambitious parts of his
agenda, even if they come from the political establishment he has so often
scorned.

His transportation secretary is likely to be one of the more essential players.
Trump, a real estate magnate, has said infrastructure redevelopment will be a
priority of his first 100 days in office. And Chao has experience - politically
and personally - in navigating the competing centers of power in the capital.
She is married to Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Kentucky, the majority leader.

This will be her second time serving in a White House Cabinet if she is
confirmed. As secretary of labor under President George W. Bush, she was the
only official in his administration to serve all eight years.

Before that, she worked in various departments across the federal government.
She was a White House fellow under President Ronald Reagan and the director of
the Peace Corps under President George Bush, who also named her deputy
transportation secretary.

Her r[#xfffd]sum[#xfffd] speaks to the ease with which she runs in powerful
circles in Washington and beyond. She has worked for Harvard's Kennedy School of
Government as well as the conservative Heritage Foundation. She was also a
frequent commentator on Fox News, a role that several of Trump's other Cabinet
picks and candidates share, like K.T. McFarland, whom he named as his deputy
national security adviser.

She adds some diversity to a Cabinet that is so far heavily older, white and
male. Chao, 63, was born in Taiwan and moved to the U.S. with her family when
she was 8.

While the public aspects of her life are well known, Chao has also played an
integral, behind-the-scenes role in her husband's political career, most
recently as he fought off efforts to unseat him in 2014. Described by friends
and colleagues as unrelenting, she occasionally stepped out into the public eye
to take on her husband's antagonists.

Sometimes they also came for her, and she was happy to take them on as well.
After a liberal Kentucky group suggested in 2013 that Chao was somehow connected
to the flight of U.S. jobs to China - a jab evidently intended to portray
McConnell as too cozy with U.S. business interests - she starred in a commercial
and rushed to his defense. "Far-left special interests are also attacking my
ethnicity, even attacking Mitch's patriotism, because he's married to me," she
said. "That's how low some people will stoop."

Trump was impressed by her energy and drive, a senior transition official said,
speaking anonymously to reveal the private interactions between Chao and the
president-elect. He also admired her no-nonsense attitude, this official said.

But now that she is in line for a prominent position in Trump's Cabinet, it is
her own ties to business that are likely to come under scrutiny. As labor
secretary, she faced criticism that her department favored business and was lax
on enforcement and worker safety.

At the time, she dismissed those concerns as "partisan."

Return of Romney

The president-elect summoned a former foe, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney, for dinner Tuesday night to discuss the secretary of state job for a
second time.

Trump also met with Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, having met with former CIA director David Petraeus the day
before.

After his meeting, Corker told reporters, "The world needs to know that the
secretary of state is someone who speaks fully for the president," a possible
jab at former GOP presidential nominee Romney, who aggressively opposed Trump's
candidacy.

Transition aides said Trump was likely at least a few days away from a decision.

The New York Times and The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1102 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Torrance Daily Breeze (California)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

Democrats may turn left - off a cliff

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 609 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

When a political party loses a national election, it typically spends the next
several months digging through the rubble and doing some serious soul searching.
In order to regain its competitiveness in the next election cycle, the losing
party usually pours through all of the data in an attempt to figure out why the
American people rejected its candidates and platform.

In the 2016 presidential election, it's not hard to figure out what went wrong
for Hillary Clinton and the Democrats - white, working-class voters abandoned
the party of Jackson and Roosevelt in record numbers. These defections helped
Republican Donald Trump win the once reliably blue Rust Belt states of
Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin and ultimately the nation.

If the Democrats are going to bounce back in the 2018 mid-term elections,
they're going to have to bring these voters back into the tent - it's as simple
as that.

If anything, given which Senate seats will be up for election, these blue collar
white voters will have even more of an impact in 2018 than they did in 2016.

In the next cycle, Democrats will be defending senate seats in Florida, Indiana,
Michigan, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and
Wisconsin - all states that went for Trump. The Republicans will be defending
only one Senate seat in a state that Clinton won, Nevada.

There's no question the map favors the GOP.

The first major decision the Democrats will have to make is who will replace the
interim chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, Donna Brazile.

As of now, the favorite appears to be liberal Minnesota Congressman Keith
Ellison.

Ellison, the only Muslim member of Congress, has already racked up some
high-profile endorsements, including Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, incoming
Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer and filmmaker Michael Moore.

However, given Ellison's long history of associating with radicals and making
extreme statements on race and other matters, he may not be the Democrats' best
messenger to communicate with blue collar America.

As a third-year law student at the University of Minnesota, Ellison wrote
columns for the Minnesota Daily under the name Keith Hakim. In these op-ed
pieces, Ellison demanded reparations for slavery and an optional separate
country for American blacks.

Ellison organized a rallythat featured Nation of Islam spokesman Khalid Abdul
Muhammad. At the rally Muhammad declared, "If words were swords, the chests of
Jews, gays and whites would be pierced."

Ellison has since tried to distance himself from these off-the-wall statements
and boutique beliefs. However, all indications are that he continued to publicly
defend Louis Farrakhan and the Nation of Islam through at least the year 2000,
when he was an elected member of the Minnesota state Legislature.

More recently, Ellison made headlines by declaring Cuban dictator Fidel Castro's
legacy to be a "mixed bag."

While speaking to Sirius XM's Karen Hunter, Ellison said that while Castro
engaged in "harsh dictatorial tactics," he also stood up "for peace and freedom
in Africa." Ellison went on to argue, "If you look at his legacy you have to say
that he confronted people with a lot of power on behalf of people that didn't
have any."

OK, then. Thanks for clearing that up.

Tapping Congressman Ellison as chairman of the DNC may be cathartic for
shell-shocked Democrats, but he would be an unmitigated disaster for the party.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1103 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                 METRO EDITION

Trump will need key transatlantic ties

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 538 words


Cohesion championed by Obama and Merkel shouldn't be shunted aside.

In 2008, then-presidential candidate Barack Obama's massive rally in Berlin
reflected the desire of many Europeans to repair U.S. relations after divisions
over the Iraq war. This week, President Obama, on his last official visit to
Europe, again went to Berlin, and in a joint news conference with German
Chancellor Angela Merkel reflected on the status of the transatlantic
relationship. And later Obama, Merkel and other key European leaders agreed
unanimously to keep sanctions on Russia for intervening in Ukraine.

President-elect Donald Trump, whose conciliatory and even flattering words
regarding Russian President Vladimir Putin have caused anxiety among many
European leaders, let alone Republicans like Arizona Sen. John McCain, should
recognize that this type of Western cohesion is necessary in an unstable world.

Obama made that clear last week. "Our alliance with our NATO partners has been a
cornerstone of U.S. foreign policy for nearly 70 years - in good times and in
bad, and through presidents of both parties - because the United States has a
fundamental interest in Europe's stability and security," he said. On Russia,
Obama said that he hopes Trump "does not simply take a realpolitik approach."

For her part, Merkel said of Russia: "This is all about respecting certain
principles. ... So the fact that for over 70 years we have been able to enjoy
peace, to live in peace very much depends on territorial integrity and
sovereignty of each and every European country being respected. In view of the
European history, the reverse would be the start of a very bitter road down a
slippery slope, and we have to nip this in the bud. We have to stand up
resolutely against any such attempts."

The global instability the incoming president will face is best met through
multinational efforts. Indeed, during the campaign Trump was reticent about
America's overstretched global role. But building consensus requires cohesion,
and Trump's intemperate remarks (Merkel is "ruining Germany," he tweeted after
Merkel was tabbed Time's "Person of the Year") and his choice to meet Nigel
Farage, the former United Kingdom Independence Party leader who championed
Brexit, before U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May are the type of mistakes he must
now avoid.

Both Obama and Merkel commented on the potent populism roiling both sides of the
Atlantic, and in fact Brexit and Trump's triumph may be part of a broader
pattern that could be repeated in upcoming European elections. But just as it
would have been inappropriate for European leaders to get involved in the U.S.
election, the next president should refrain from favoring anti-E.U. candidates.
Indeed, Trump may soon learn the benefits, if not necessity, of strong
transatlantic links.

Saying he was "cautiously optimistic about my successor and the shift from
campaign mode to governance," Obama added that the presidency itself might be a
tempering influence. "There's something about the solemn responsibility of that
office, the extraordinary demands that are placed on the United States - not
just by its own people but by people around the world - that forces you to
focus, that demands seriousness."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1104 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 METRO EDITION

HOT DISH POLITICS

BYLINE: ALLISON SHERRY; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 551 words



HIGHLIGHT: Minnesota native celebrates GOP job well done


WASHINGTON - Kevin McLaughlin is one of those D.C. political operatives who
quietly moves mountains behind a desk on Capitol Hill for 14 hours a day for two
solid years and then finds himself unemployed after Election Day.

The Edina native is deputy executive director of the National Republican
Senatorial Committee (NRSC), the campaign arm for the Senate Republicans. He had
essentially one charge from 2014 to 2016: Keep the upper chamber in Republican
hands.

From his gray-and-white office bedecked with Minnesota garb, McLaughlin worked
relentlessly. He conducted polls. He watched countless political campaign ads.
He raised money (the NRSC raised about $120 million in the past two years. The
Democrats raised about $30 million more.) He helped campaigns with messages that
appealed to voters. He focused on research. Sometimes he even told candidates
what not to say.

And his toiling paid off: Depending on final results of an exceedingly tight
Louisiana Senate race, the Republicans are presiding over 51 or 52 seats and the
Democrats have 46 or 47 until 2018.

"It's a mandate to govern. I think we'll do good things. I think we'll do big
things," said McLaughlin, 42, and a graduate of the University of St. Thomas.

"I think you'll see the repeal of Obamacare. ... I just think that [Senate
Majority Leader Mitch] McConnell wants to govern," he said. "[Senate Minority
Leader Chuck] Schumer wants to govern. Trump wants to govern. The House wants to
govern. It's a good place to start."

Asked how it feels to have presided over one of the biggest Republican sweep
years in modern history, McLaughlin chuckled and noted that he didn't start out
with an easy map to victory.

"There's nothing more motivating than people telling you you can't do
something," he said. "In the beginning of this cycle, it wasn't if we were going
to lose, it was how many seats are we going to lose, it was how quickly our
majority is going to be gone."

On Trump's win, he said he is not surprised after staring at polling numbers
across the country for the past two months: Democratic presidential candidate
Hillary Clinton's favorability and likability numbers were low.

"Everyone here [in D.C.] thought it was a foregone conclusion [that she would
win]," he said. "But the data didn't match up with everyone's conclusions."

He still thinks the Republican Party needs to study how they secured such big
victories in the election and figure out how to build on that for the next two
and four years.

"It's better to be us than them right now," he said of Democrats. "But you know
we have to kind of sort out what exactly happened as well and what it all means.
I think it's going to be really important."

McLaughlin says his Minnesota roots taught him "perseverance and hard work and
trying to be positive."

"When you're faced with that kind of a map, you draw back to the kinds of things
that comfort you and, to me, I drew back to home," he said.

On his pending unemployment, McLaughlin said he is looking forward to some down
time with his family to figure out what to do next, noting Washington will be an
exciting time for his party next year.

"First of all, I'd like to have about four margaritas and not think about
anything for a while," he said.

Allison Sherry · 202.662.7433 alison.sherry@startribune.com · Twitter:
@allisonsherry

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1105 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 METRO EDITION

PICK SIX

BYLINE: JON BREAM; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: VARIETY; Pg. 7E

LENGTH: 266 words


Lisa Dahlseid of Robbinsdale:

1 Green Day, "American Music Awards." A "Bang Bang" performance gave way to a
chant of "No Trump, no KKK, no fascist USA," a variation of the band MDC's
lyrics from the early '80s. When it comes to revolution, some things never
change.

2 Leonard Cohen, "You Want It Darker." No, we don't, but this masterwork from
Cohen, released three weeks before his passing on Nov. 7, lends a blessed night
light as winter closes in.

3 "Sanctus: A Journey Through Music History," Orchestra Hall. About 600
Robbinsdale students participated in this annual fall music festival. A
beginning plainchant progressed to a soul-calling gospel conclusion. The voices
of our future.

Jon Bream of the Star Tribune:

1 Tedeschi Trucks Band, the Orpheum. One of the best concerts of the year was
the perfect musical salve during election week. Susan Tedeschi's voice has grown
more deeply Southern and her guitar work more assertive. Derek Trucks continues
to be a guitar marvel in front of this deeply talented and versatile band.

2 Mary J. Blige and Maxwell, Memphis. In this co-headlining arena show, Blige
performed for the fans, with an earthy passion and BFF patter, while Maxwell
performed for himself, with an artful style and self-aggrandizing talk, save for
his comment that he can't wait for four more years and Michelle Obama to run for
the White House.

3 James Corden to host the Grammys. It's about time the Grammys dumped lifeless
host LL Cool J. The king of "Carpool Karaoke" has hosted the Brits (England's
Grammys), plus he's an avid music fan, strong singer/dancer and gifted comic.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1106 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 METRO EDITION

Neglected: The path to winning rural votes

BYLINE: LORI STURDEVANT; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1OP

LENGTH: 1040 words



HIGHLIGHT: Some of state's best historical ideas for achieving equity remain the
best way forward.


Before former DFL state Rep. Doug Peterson retires from the presidency of the
Minnesota Farmers Union at year's end - and before the F (for Farmer) in DFL
fades into oblivion - I invited him to offer a few pointers on how to keep this
state from splitting into warring metro and rural political tribes.

Peterson agreed to meet at a Twin Cities restaurant that obtains vittles from
regional farms. That befits the founder of my favorite State Fair food event,
Minnesota Cooks, the tastiest illustration I know of the enduring
interdependence of Greater and metro Minnesotans.

I'd barely landed in my seat when he started schooling me on his party's
failures in the Nov. 8 election.

"The Democrats didn't have a message for rural people!" an animated Peterson
said. "They didn't feel they had to come to the rural areas and talk to us! You
can't win elections in Minnesota without rural people!"

Actually, Hillary Clinton just demonstrated that a candidate can get trounced in
rural Minnesota and still carry the state. But this election also showed that
the DFL cannot hold majorities in the Legislature with a statewide victory as
skewed to the Twin Cities, Rochester and Duluth as Clinton's was.

Democrats didn't just lose by a little in Greater Minnesota. They saw a massive
voter exodus. Some telling numbers, courtesy of DFL vote tally wizard Brian
Rice: Clinton chalked up 457,000 votes in Greater Minnesota's 80 counties,
compared with President Obama's 609,000 in 2012. That's the loss

of one of every four voters who favored the Democratic candidate for president
four years ago.

Further: Seven of the eight state Senate seats that switched from DFL to GOP
control were in Greater Minnesota - while two suburban seats that Republicans
had held switched to the DFL.

Political scientists might call that a rural realignment to the Republicans. But
Minnesota's quirky fascination with third-party candidates complicates the
analysis. Donald Trump got 83,000 more votes in Greater Minnesota in 2016 than
Republican candidate Mitt Romney did in 2012 - and third-party candidates got
70,000 more than their ilk did four years ago. Those third-party voters are
bound to figure prominently into both parties' designs in 2018 and beyond.

DFLers were banking on gains in the suburbs, where Clinton polled well all year,
and where Trump scored 80,000 fewer votes than Romney had. They didn't
anticipate the hemorrhaging outstate. Quite a few of them seem baffled about why
that happened, let alone about how they might reverse the red tide.

Peterson's view of the rural political landscape isn't as foggy. That may be
because he still lives on the farm near Madison on which he was raised, and
politics rivals agriculture as the family enterprise. His father, Harry
Peterson, spent 10 years in the state House; Doug followed 15 years later and
served for 12 years, and his son Aaron Peterson was elected in 2002 and put in
six years.

"Rural people feel that their economic opportunity has been taken away,"
Peterson said. That sense has grown after three successive years of low
commodity prices and rising costs in the individual health insurance market.
"There's a sense that economic justice isn't reaching us."

In response, he said, his party's message should have been: "We're the party of
the pocketbook." Instead, he said, Democrats in Washington pushed trade deals
and regulations that farm interests consider burdensome, and DFLers in St. Paul
failed to deliver property tax relief. Social issues carried too much weight.

"At some point, people form opinions that the Democrats aren't for us anymore.
That's sad," he said - then quickly brightened. "At the same time, you end up
with an opportunity to find new leadership."

I had the sense that Peterson would like to supply some of that leadership. At
age 68, he's younger than both the nation's president-elect and the state's
sitting governor. He made a brief foray into gubernatorial politics in 2010.

But Peterson didn't suggest that his name should go on the lists we pundits keep
of possible 2018 gubernatorial candidates. Instead, he offered to share the
ideas he presented in his farewell address at the state Farmers Union convention
on Nov. 19. His theme: State and national policies should be built on the notion
of "a right to be rural" - that is, a right to public services of a quality
comparable to those in the metro area, at a comparable cost.

That notion is at the heart of the implicit promise DFLers made 45 years ago
with the Minnesota Miracle - the use of the state's tax muscle to pool resources
and distribute them to schools, cities and counties on the basis of needs-driven
formulas, not political whims. It's also embedded, though not as firmly, in
state transportation funding formulas.

These remain among Minnesota's best policy ideas. But their durability is
threatened by the resentments and political rivalry that have developed between
Greater Minnesota and the metro area.

Peterson's "right to be rural" ideas start with the basics - education and
transportation at an affordable tax price. They extend to available, affordable
health care and broadband service. They include government support for
small-business expansion in Greater Minnesota that's on par with what government
might do for a large employer in the Twin Cities.

They touch on what looms as the touchiest rural-urban topic in coming decades,
environmental protection. Peterson calls for an "equal voice" for rural
landowners and "common-sense management" of land and water resources, which he
balances by asking farmers to help "preserve our resources for future
generations."

That kind of balancing of rural and urban interests used to happen within each
of Minnesota's two big political parties, each of which had a stake in both the
80 outstate and seven metro counties. No matter which party came out on top in
an election, residents on both sides of the then-narrower metro-rural divide had
some confidence that their interests would be guarded by the winning party.

Regrettably, that assurance has been lost in recent years. My guess is that an
advantage awaits the party that figures out how to provide it again.

Lori Sturdevant, an editorial writer and columnist, is at
lsturdevant@startribune.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1107 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 METRO EDITION

Mills seeks recount in 8th District

BYLINE: PATRICK CONDON; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 659 words



HIGHLIGHT: The GOP candidate will pay for a hand tally in his 2,009-vote loss to
Nolan.


Republican Stewart Mills said Monday he would request - and pay for - a hand
recount of votes in the congressional race he narrowly lost to DFL U.S. Rep.
Rick Nolan.

"We just want to make sure that every vote gets counted, and counted correctly,"
Mills said in an interview. "We're prepared to accept whatever is the genuine
will of the voters, but we would be negligent not to seek this recount."

Nolan, the incumbent, beat Mills by 2,009 votes of a total of 356,971 cast in
northeastern Minnesota's Eighth Congressional District. That margin, a little
more than one-half a percent, is too large to trigger an automatic, state-funded
recount.

But state law allows Mills to request a hand recount as long as he pays for it
himself. He said the margin is small enough to merit a recount, especially since
Nolan outperformed Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in the
district.

Republican President-elect Donald Trump won the Eighth District, and Nolan got
nearly 40,000 more votes than Clinton.

"We're not alleging voter fraud, we're not saying anyone got the numbers wrong,
but there's enough questions that need to be answered that can only be answered
by a hand recount," Mills said.

Nolan's campaign manager, Joe Radinovich, disagrees. Nolan's "relative margin
was over twice that of Governor Dayton's 2010 victory, and it was over twice the
threshold established in law," he said in a statement Monday night.

"It is evident voters recognized Congressman Nolan as an effective champion of
their issues. While he has the right to do so, Mr. Mills' choice to pay for a
recount is unprecedented, and it calls into question the integrity of
Minnesota's election system, which is administered through the volunteer efforts
of election judges from both parties. We appreciate those efforts, and we expect
there will be no change in the outcome," Radinovich wrote.

Minnesota had statewide recounts in two consecutive election years: the U.S.
Senate contest in 2008 between DFLer Al Franken and Republican Norm Coleman, and
the 2010 gubernatorial race between DFLer Mark Dayton and Republican Tom Emmer.
In both cases, the winning margin was small enough to trigger an automatic
recount.

Still, while recounts are common in state legislative races, they are much more
rare in statewide or congressional district elections. The last congressional
district recount in the state was in southwestern Minnesota in 2000, when
Republican Mark Kennedy beat DFLer David Minge by 155 votes out of almost
300,000 cast. That, too, was a close enough margin to trigger an automatic
recount.

The sprawling Eighth District includes Duluth and the Arrowhead Region, the Iron
Range and the Brainerd Lakes area, and it stretches south all the way to some
northern Twin Cities exurbs. The traditionally DFL-leaning district has grown
more favorable to Republicans in recent years, and in this cycle national
Democrats and Republicans alike poured more than $17 million into advertising -
making it the country's most expensive House race.

Nolan was running for his third consecutive term after an earlier stint in
Congress in the 1970s. Mills, a member of the Minnesota family that built the
Mills Fleet Farm retail empire, also narrowly lost to Nolan two years ago. That
time, Nolan's winning margin was a little bigger, about 4,000 votes.

Mills said he expects the recount to cost him "just under six figures." He also
sank about $2 million of his own money into the race. He will officially file a
recount request Tuesday, after the State Canvassing Board certifies the Nov. 8
election results. He said he didn't know how long a recount would take.

Mills said he doesn't mean to be disruptive and he means no disrespect to Nolan.

"If congressman Nolan did outperform Hillary Clinton to the degree the initial
numbers show, then literally, hats off to the man and I owe him a beer," Mills
said.

Staff writer Allison Sherry contributed to this report.

Patrick Condon · 651-925-5049

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1108 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 METRO EDITION

Trump on Twitter: More baseless claims

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 650 words


Whether it's petulance or a cunning attempt to spur voter suppression, Donald
Trump's irresponsible, unfounded claim that he would have won the popular vote
but for the millions of "illegal" votes cast is a new low in a presidency that
has not even formally begun.

Trump has yet to name most of his Cabinet members. He has but eight weeks to
assemble a new administration, prepare for his first congressional session and
get ready to deliver the State of the Union address. Yet here he is, still
obsessing about the outcome of an election that he won. For those who harbored
some faint hope that with victory might come a measure of stability, here is
more evidence that Trump just can't help himself.

It's worth detailing the back story here: On Sunday, stung by Hillary Clinton's
growing victory margin in the popular vote - now at 2.2 million - and the
recount effort promoted by the Green Party, Trump embarked on a Twitter rant
that resembled the ravings of a maudlin loser unable to face reality. Unable to
deal with the fact that even though he won, he was not the people's choice,
Trump instead is bitter about the "so-called popular vote." Apparently there can
be no legitimate popular vote that does not have him as the winner.

With no evidence, he has claimed "serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire
and California" and blamed news media bias for not reporting on a phenomenon
that exists only in the fevered minds of conspiracy sites like Infowars. That
site started the fraud allegation with a story based on a supposed analysis of
180 million voter registrations by an organization called VoteFraud. Except that
PolitiFact, an award-winning fact-checking site, found that VoteFraud apparently
did no such report. PolitiFact debunked the story more than a week before
Trump's hissy fit.

The myth of massive voter fraud, assiduously cultivated by Republicans, is
simply without basis in fact. When PolitiFact contacted Richard Hasen, an
election law expert at the University of California, Irvine, he said, "The idea
that 3 million noncitizens could have illegally voted in our elections without
being detected is obscenely ludicrous."

The recount efforts led by failed Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein
in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan, which apparently triggered Trump, pose
little threat to his victory, if history is any guide. In Wisconsin, which
begins its recount Thursday, Trump leads by more than 22,000 votes. That is
already a larger margin than has ever been reversed through a recount.
Minnesota's 2008 Senate recount, one of the most exhaustive in modern history,
changed the final tally by only a few hundred ballots. In the infamous Florida
recount of the 2000 election, George W. Bush had a final recount margin of 537.

And while Trump has been whining about the election he won, his electoral margin
actually grew on Monday, with Michigan certifying its results and awarding him
another 16 electoral votes.

The U.S. voting process has withstood scrutiny time and again and is undeserving
of Trump's childish tantrum. It is in fact so illogical that we fear a more
nefarious purpose at work: attempts to further erode Americans' trust in yet
another institution, paving the way for more voter suppression, which has proved
a far bigger problem than voter fraud.

It should be clear by now that Trump's outbursts will require an adjustment by
the news media, which need to bring a double-helping of skepticism to coverage
of a fact-averse president-elect. Too many initially posted headlines that
simply repeated - without qualification - Trump's baseless illegal voting
assertion did his work for him. Those headlines rocket around the internet,
further solidifying the notion in the minds of those who won't go deeper, that
Trump is some kind of plain-spoken truth teller, instead of a Twitter troll who
needs to get off social media and get back to work.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1109 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                 METRO EDITION

REELING DEMOCRATS SPLIT OVER ELLISON'S BID

BYLINE: ALLISON SHERRY; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 801 words



HIGHLIGHT: Congressman says economic populism belongs at core of party message


WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Keith Ellison is in the political fight of his life to
convince activists across the country that he is the right person to lead the
Democratic National Committee after historic losses in Congress and of the White
House.

Ellison's task is enormous: Make the case that a Muslim from north Minneapolis
is the leader the party needs to connect with voters in rural areas and Rust
Belt states who have increasingly voted Republican.

"The average American is really upset at the status quo," Ellison said.

He has centered his campaign on income inequality and the belief that people are
working harder for less money than they did decades ago. "Hard work doesn't
necessarily pay," said Ellison, 53, a five-term congressman who represents
Minneapolis and surrounding suburbs.

But Ellison's campaign is facing stiff resistance from powerful corners of the
party, including the White House. He has drawn criticism from party leaders
skeptical that the representative of Minnesota's most liberal congressional
district can connect with a wider swath of the country, particularly the rural
areas Democrats used to dominate.

"Who are we? What are we standing for? I certainly don't feel like our
leadership here [in Washington] listens to me like that," said Democratic Rep.
Tim Walz, who narrowly won re-election in the southern part of Minnesota, where
Republican Donald Trump had a strong showing. "It's left to be seen who is going
to speak for the Democrats right now. I'm asking right now who that person
should be."

Ellison's run comes at a time of deep upheaval and soul-searching among party
leaders, who along with the White House have lost both chambers of Congress as
well as governorships and legislatures across the country.

The former party chairwoman, Florida Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, abruptly
stepped down ahead of the Democratic National Convention earlier this year after
leaked e-mails showed she had favored Hillary Clinton to win the presidential
nomination over Sen. Bernie Sanders.

If Ellison wins control of the party's political arm, he would be charged with
bridging a yawning gap between the older and more urban base of the party and
the younger, more vocal coalition that was drawn to Sanders' insurgent
candidacy.

"I think the Democratic Party is always going to be the marriage of the civil
rights community and economic populism for all," said Ellison, who initially
supported Sanders and then shifted to Clinton once she clinched the nomination.

Sanders was an early endorser of Ellison for party chairman. Sens. Elizabeth
Warren and Chuck Schumer, the incoming minority leader, have recently given him
their support.

For Ellison, a lawyer who formerly worked for the Lindquist & Vennum firm in
Minneapolis, the day-to-day work of running to head the DNC is a grueling slog
through phone lists, long conversations with anxious party leaders and time in
front of a computer answering e-mails.

The path to victory is far from certain. Many Democrats have said a full-time
congressman can't devote the time necessary for the top party job.

Ellison has not indicated for certain that he would keep his seat, but he said
Wednesday he intends to give the party more than 40 hours a week of work.

Meanwhile, Ellison has faced renewed criticism for previous ties with the Nation
of Islam, a black political movement dubbed a hate group by the Southern Poverty
Law Center.

Ellison was an organizer for the 1995 Million Man March, which was staged by
Louis Farrakhan, the longtime leader of the Nation of Islam and a virulent
anti-Semite. Ellison says he has never had any bigoted thoughts or feelings and
distanced himself from the movement after the march in Washington because it
wasn't effective.

"Ultimately, all they had to offer was directing anger at other people, which
really isn't productive, and that became clear to me," he said.

DFL State Party Chairman Ken Martin, who has been helping Ellison since June
with his bid, said he must show voters that Democrats are the party for all
Americans.

"It's important for the next chair to heal the wound ... bring the Sanders
supporters and the Clinton supporters together," Martin said.

Ellison believes he has the energy and the ideas to do that.

"The Democratic Party is always going to be the party that women have equal
rights, but we also have to be a party that says that we're not going to sit by
when your family can barely make the rent," he said. "We can't sit back and
allow that to happen."

Allison Sherry · 202-662-7433

CANDIDATES FOR DNC CHAIR

· U.S. Rep. Keith Ellison

· Former DNC chairman and Vermont Gov. Howard Dean

· New Hampshire Democratic Party Chairman Raymond Buckley

· South Carolina Democratic Party Chairman Jaime Harrison

Others considering a run: NARAL President Ilyse Hogue, Secretary of Labor Thomas
Perez

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1110 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           Idaho Falls Post Register

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

National column: Fake news and the winds of hate

BYLINE: Llewellyn King, Writer

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: Idaho Falls, ID


The problem as I see it is that people love to hate and once that infection has
taken hold, it is resistant to cure, writes Llewellyn King.

There is an ill wind blowing across the nation. Sometimes it is a foul gale,
other times just a smelly zephyr. But it is as evil as it is nauseating, as
noisome as it is cruel. It blights good fellowship, throttles reasonable
discourse and brings threatening clouds for the future.

Lies, insinuations, fabrications and distortions are not new to politics, but
now they have an awesome delivery system: fake news on the internet.

A fringe of the already fringy alt-right believes that the election victory of
Donald Trump established a new order of self-righteous bigotry, as though
decency has been repealed, kindness put on hold and common sense sent to the
jailhouse.

A quiet block of small businesses on Connecticut Avenue in the Chevy Chase
section of Washington has become a focal point for the venomous malice of fake
news on the internet.

On one side of the road is a Washington institution: the book store Politics and
Prose, a favorite place for authors to talk about their books on C-SPAN. It is
owned by two former Washington Post reporters, one of whom was a speechwriter
for first lady Hillary Clinton.

Across the street are two neighborhood restaurants: a large family pizza place,
Comet Ping Pong, and a small French bistro and craft shop, Terasol.

All three establishments have been the victims of fake news, which alleges that
they are dealing in pedophilia, claiming Hillary Clinton, her presidential
campaign manager, John Podesta, and former Secretary of State Madeleine
Albright, who have been customers, are kidnapping children and holding them in
tunnels under the pizza place.

Sabrina Ousmal, who with her husband Alan Moin, own Terasol, has also been under
attack. Here, I feel a personal involvement. Ousmal worked for me for more than
a decade, and she and Alan are personal friends of me and my wife, Linda
Gasparello.

Alan works full-time at Terasol, while Sabrina is the assistant publisher of The
Energy Daily, which I founded in 1973 and sold in 2006.

She has been besieged with hundreds of e-mails, spreading a vile story of child
molestation and kidnapping and even suggesting that The Energy Daily is an
alternative energy publication. Not true. It covers the electric utility
industry and the government nuclear complex with dogged determination.

Politics and Prose is under attack, presumably, because the owners, Bradley
Graham and Lissa Muscatine, had worked as Washington Post reporters, and
Muscatine was a speechwriter for Clinton.

The police and the FBI are on the case. But this is a new perversion of truth
and the perpetrators enjoy the courage that comes from anonymity: the courage of
the ultimate bully.

The implications here go far beyond one block of small businesses in Washington.

The problem as I see it is that people love to hate and once that infection has
taken hold, it is resistant to cure. I have seen people warming themselves at
the fires of hate around the globe; in South Africa, where the Afrikaans and the
English traded in hate, as did the Xhosa and the Zulu; in Zimbabwe, where the
hate was stirred by its evil president, Robert Mugabe, between his Shona people
and the Ndebele.

It has been stirred up, largely by a section of the press in Britain toward the
continent, particularly the French. This, in the name of sovereignty, has led to
the slow, almost ritual economic suicide now playing out in London.

Hate is at work daily in the Middle East, where it is the one thing people cling
to: the paradoxical love of hating. Now there is a hate front here.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Post Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1111 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           Idaho Falls Post Register

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Local column: Untrained pilot in the cockpit

BYLINE: Jay Gaskill, Writer

LENGTH: 582 words

DATELINE: Idaho Falls, ID


Recent attempts to de-legitimize Trump's electoral victory are like a life-death
struggle in the cockpit, writes Jay Gaskill.

As one who voted against both Donald and Hillary, I was among those of us who
were ready for a change of direction. Yes, Donald Trump was clear about
"changing direction," but he acted like an overconfident TV personality playing
a captain at the helm of a jet airliner, believing that somehow he will figure
out how to safely land the thing before running out of fuel - How hard could
this be?

The recent attempts to delegitimize Trump's victory resemble a life-death
struggle in the cockpit while the aircraft falters. Instead we should canvass
all passengers for people with navigation and flight skills to come to the aid
of the pilot. Election recounts will not change the outcome. And in the end, we
will still have the same inexperienced pilot in the cockpit.

However we might feel about this election, the outcome is an endorsement by most
voters of a reversal of policy direction in immigration, regulation, taxation
and the rapid development of U.S. energy reserves. Can we add the Libertarian
popular vote, plus the Utah and Idaho votes for the independent conservative,
Evan McMullin, another 5 million votes to Trump's? Collectively, these votes
were against the policy direction of the Clinton campaign.

But was there massive vote counting fraud? Probably not. Was there significant
voter registration fraud? We do not know. It's a concern, especially in
California where Hispanics are almost half the population, and the number of
non-citizens living there, documented or otherwise, is in the millions.

The status of non-citizens in California changed in 2015. Non-citizens living
there now routinely and legitimately obtain driver's licenses. Many
conservatives are concerned because a California driver's license is sufficient
identification to get registered as a voter - although a date of birth, a street
address and the last four digits of a valid social security number are required
to register on-line under the state's motor-voter law.

And social security numbers can be issued to non-citizens. California's
population includes 25 million licensed drivers, a substantial number of whom
are not legally entitled to vote because they are not U.S. citizens.

As a practical matter, California's enforcement regime prohibiting undocumented
aliens from voting in a national election borders on an honor system. But even
if extra California non-citizen votes were counted in that winner-take-all
state, there is no change in the Electoral College outcome.

Of course, voter fraud should be taken seriously. John F. Kennedy's razor-thin
victory over Richard Nixon in 1960 could have been the result of voter fraud.
Should Nixon have won? We will never know.

Bottom line: unlike the epic Kennedy-Nixon election, the 2016 Trump-Clinton
contest was not close enough in any state or combination of states for local
fraud to change the outcome.

In my opinion, there are two important takeaways. First, claims that this
election represented a popular mandate for former Secretary Clinton and her
politics are refuted by the numbers when you take into account third party
votes. Second, whether Donald Trump is the pilot who can successfully guide the
plane in a different direction without a crash landing depends on the quality of
help he gets from the passengers.

Keep your seat belts fastened.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Post Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1112 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           Idaho Falls Post Register

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Letter to the editor: The importance of primaries

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: Idaho Falls, ID


The importance of primaries

Received Nov. 29

This election cycle has starkly revealed shortcomings in how presidential
candidates are chosen.

1. A small percentage of people (I believe less than 20 percent) who are active
party members make this choice.

2. Individual states determine their own procedure making any standardization
difficult. Anyone moving to a new state has little guidance in learning a
state's primary procedure.

3. Capable people who have good ideas but are not active members of the
Republican or Democratic parties are often blocked from public expression and
debate.

I would like to see some thoughtful ideas on ways this process might be
improved. Often individual states initiate new ways of doing things. Other
states see what works and will follow. It shouldn't be too difficult to improve
on Idaho's process if party activists are willing to share the power in this
most important selection process.

Because our country is so huge, it is nearly impossible for the average person
to get a true handle on the character, beliefs and outside influences of anyone
seeking political office. It is more doable within a state. If people within a
state perform due diligence in selecting candidates in the primary, we might
have a better starting lineup.

It would help to have more robust Civics studies in our schools which might
encourage some promising individuals to think about high political offices as
attainable and worth seeking. I look forward to some great ideas on improving
the primary process to come forth!

(Word count: 245)

JILL ECKLESDAFER

Idaho Falls

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Post Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1113 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           Idaho Falls Post Register

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Local column: Words of wisdom

BYLINE: Carrie and Jerry Scheid, Writer

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: Idaho Falls, ID


The presidential election had a surprising outcome and we may not understand it,
but Jerry - at 80 - still has a lot of optimism, write Carrie and Jerry Scheid.

Carrie: How does it feel to turn 80 years old this weekend?

Jerry: Well, I'm feeling pretty good. After all, 80 is "the new 79!"

Carrie: What? No aches and pains?

Jerry: Nobody wants to hear about them. Somebody once said "the ailments of the
elderly are frequently serious but seldom interesting."

Carrie: So what's interesting to you?

Jerry: How about the recent presidential election? I've seen a lot of Presidents
come and go. FDR was in the White House when I was born. When I was twelve, I
shook the hand of President Harry Truman.

Carrie: How did that happen?

Jerry: Truman was on a whistle stop tour for his campaign against NY Governor
Tom Dewey. His train stopped at small towns across America where he'd come out
on the platform and give a brief talk. My parents took me to Monida, Montana
where his train made a stop.

Carrie: Seriously? His train stopped in Monida? Were there even twenty people
there?

Jerry: Actually, the train had to stop to add another locomotive to make the
climb into Butte. President Truman came out on the platform and greeted us. With
such a small crowd, I was able to reach up and shake his hand.

Carrie: That 1948 election was a huge surprise because most folks didn't think
Truman could possibly beat Dewey.

Jerry: Kind of sounds like the recent Presidential election. Nobody thought
Trump could beat Clinton.

Carrie: She won the popular vote by over 2.2 million votes. But Trump won the
Electoral College. Some claim our national turnout was less than 2012. But
according to Cook Political Report's David Wasserman, this year's presidential
turnout, so far, is 134.9 million compared to 129 million in 2012 and 131.3
million in 2008.

Jerry: How was Idaho's turnout?

Carrie: The Secretary of State says 710,877 Idahoans voted. That's the most
ever. Percentage wise, that's 76 percent of registered voters, the fifth highest
such percent since 1980. Bonneville County was a little higher at almost 78
percent of registered voters. Statewide, Trump won 59 percent of the vote
compared to Clinton's 27.5 percent.

Jerry: Here's what I don't get. Trump's campaign promised to deport illegal
immigrants and cancel international trade deals. Yet Idaho's economy relies
heavily on illegals for agricultural labor. Moreover Idaho exports generate over
$4.3 billion for our state economy.

Carrie: Does this mean our farmer friends will be moving their own pipe this
spring? Or will the Magic Valley dairy owners start milking their own cows?

Jerry: Why would folks vote against their own economic interests? I can't make
sense of that.

Carrie: Conventional wisdom says Trump's supporters took him "seriously but not
literally." Besides, I thought you'd like the notion of a bunch of old white
guys running the country again.

Jerry: It has some appeal.

Carrie: How do you feel about our incoming President? Are you pessimistic about
our country's future?

Jerry: Not really. Indeed, Churchill once said, "The pessimist sees difficulty
in every opportunity. The optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty."

Carrie: Then you're optimistic! Do you have any wisdom to share with our readers
on your 80th birthday?

Jerry: Allow me to offer the advice my late Aunt Dorothy shared on her 90th
birthday. When I asked for her words of wisdom, she said, "Jerry! Nobody likes a
cry baby!"

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Post Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1114 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

We can improve the way we pick our presidents

SECTION: C; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 412 words


The just completed election has left many Americans questioning whether our
process of selecting a president needs an overhaul. The primary season seemed
endless and the two candidates it spawned were less than satisfying to many.

Robert Wefald, in a guest opinion on Monday, argues the political parties need
to dump the primaries and caucuses and get back to the parties selecting the
presidential candidates. He points out that the conventions lack drama because
the candidates have been determined by the primaries. He also argues the winning
candidates have been flawed. Wefald favors having the parties select delegates
to the conventions and having them choose a candidate. He sees this as a way to
get better candidates and return excitement to the conventions.

He's right, the conventions are dull, with the highlights being the presidential
acceptance speeches. Even the vice presidential candidates often are announced
before the conventions begin. There's not much reality TV left in the
conventions.

You have to go back to baby boomers to find voters who can remember cliff-hanger
conventions. The Tribune Editorial Board doubts a change to a system dominated
by the parties would meet with approval from everyone.

Millennials would want a more direct voice in how presidential candidates are
decided. In fact, all Americans have grown accustomed to the primary or caucus
system. True, the primaries are messy, but democracies tend to be that way.

A system dominated by the conventions brings visions of backroom (the
smoke-filled rooms have vanished) deals being brokered by the power elite. That
might not be the case, but it's a concern that will be shared by many.

This isn't to say the system can't be improved, it can. The parties decide how
they select their candidates and they should review the process. Hillary Clinton
was able to build her delegate lead by getting commitments from super delegates.
The Democrats should revisit that process. The primary-caucus system has gotten
too long and there have been some years when two-thirds of the way through the
primaries a candidate or candidates have been decided. This means part of the
nation didn't have a say on the nominee.

Our system isn't perfect, but it works. We shouldn't be afraid to tinker with it
because we always want to find and elect the best candidate. Unfortunately, we
don't know if we did that until some time after the president has served. That
shouldn't stop us from improving the system.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1115 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Blue states outpace red states in job growth for past 12 months

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER S. RUGABER AP Economics Writer

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 404 words


WASHINGTON - States that voted for Hillary Clinton in the Nov. 8 election
reported stronger job growth in the preceding 12 months than states that
supported Donald Trump, according to data released by the U.S. Labor Department
on Friday.

Large cities in states where voters were more likely to support Trump also
lagged in job growth, according to a separate analysis by Jed Kolko, chief
economist at Indeed, a job search website. The figures add credence to the idea
that economic concerns contributed to Trump's unexpected victory.

Eleven U.S. states reported healthy job gains in October, and the unemployment
rate fell in seven, the Labor Department said Friday. Thirty-four states
reported little change in employment from the previous month.

The healthiest gains in the past year were in "blue" states: Job growth was 3.5
percent in Washington state, the biggest gain nationwide. Oregon reported the
next largest gain, at 3.3 percent. Other healthy increases were reported in
Colorado, California and Nevada.

There were exceptions to the trend: Florida, which supported Trump, saw hiring
increase by 3.1 percent in the 12 months ended Oct. 31 - the third-highest
total.

But the smallest increases were in "red" states that voted for the Republican
candidate. Job growth was just 0.7 percent in Pennsylvania, 0.9 percent in Ohio
and 1 percent in Wisconsin - three states that handed a combined 48 electoral
votes to Trump.

And two states lost jobs in the past year: Wyoming and North Dakota, which have
been hit by falling oil and coal prices. They both voted for Trump.

Overall, the differences weren't huge: Job growth in blue states was 1.7 percent
for the 12-months period, compared with 1.5 percent in red states, according to
Kolko's calculations.

But there are similarities in the city data. Six of the 10 metro areas with the
slowest job growth were in Pennsylvania, Ohio and Wisconsin. Allentown and
Scranton, Pa., lost more jobs than any other city nationwide.

Nationwide, the economy picked up in the fall even amid the contentious
presidential election. Americans ramped up their shopping, and applications for
unemployment aid fell to a four-decade low, a sign layoffs are scarce.

That's prompted steady hiring, though it has fallen from last year's pace.
Employers added 161,000 jobs nationwide in October, enough to reduce the
unemployment rate over time. The rate slipped to 4.9 percent from 5 percent in
September.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1116 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

West Coast shows some winning ways

SECTION: C; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 643 words


Since the election, the West Coast has been abuzz with talk of breaking away
from Donald Trump's America - a Calexit, or a linking of the nation's most
populous state with Oregon, Washington and British Columbia to form a Cascadia
by the sea.

It's a fantasy, of course, fueled by Trump's drubbing on the West Coast, where
he got less than 10 percent of the vote in some cities. But it would also be a
monumental mistake for the most prosperous and progressive part of the United
States to even consider abandoning a country that could be dominated by the old
Confederacy.

A better idea is to reach out across a yawning class divide. People in the West
could listen to their fellow Americans in the old industrial heartland. And
people in struggling towns could learn something from the workable policies of
the left coast. Difficult as that conversation may be, it could start with some
white-on-white dialogue.

In the fast-hardening concrete of postelection analysis, the presidential vote
was seen as a "whitelash," as Van Jones called it, against Barack Obama's
presidency. No doubt, race played a big part in Trump's Electoral College win.
But on Nov. 8, heavily white cities - particularly in the West - rejected Trump
by huge margins.

In Portland, Ore., often called the whitest city in America, Trump pulled barely
17 percent of the vote in the county covering most of the metro area, and even
less in the city proper. In Seattle, which is nearly 70 percent white, Trump is
on track to get only 8 percent of the vote. Denver, which is 63 percent white,
didn't even give Trump one in five votes. And in San Francisco, with a black
population of 6 percent, Trump finished in single digits.

This fortress of the forward-looking is not all white, certainly; California,
after all, has no ethnic majority. But for the sake of preventing a certain
clueless conventional wisdom from taking hold, let's consider the other white
people.

This West Coast majority cares about climate change, tech and trade. They care
about where their food comes from and want family-friendly policies that don't
knock women out of their career trajectories. They aren't afraid of raising
taxes to make their cities more livable. They don't think lunatics should be
able to buy assault rifles. And their issues were completely forgotten in the
presidential campaign.

California, which went Democratic by a nearly 2-1 margin, feels particularly
left out. People in the state are beating drums to the spectral rhythms of the
old Bear Flag Revolt, which briefly produced an independent California Republic
in 1846.

Instead, California should leverage its political clout - with almost
one-in-eight members of the House hailing from the Golden State - to stop
Trump's backward ideas.

The biggest lesson from the West Coast is about job and wage growth. In
September, 42 percent of all new jobs created in the country were in California.
At the same time, Oregon posted a job creation rate that was double the national
average. And earlier this year, Washington state was ranked No. 1 for combined
job and wage growth.

Trump claims he'll put people to work building roads, bridges and airports,
while lowering taxes on the rich. But there is a simple solution, adopted on
Election Day throughout the West Coast: targeted tax increases. Voters approved
of them because the money will be dedicated to new infrastructure - expanded and
ambitious light rail systems in Seattle and Los Angeles, for example.

It was absurd and unpatriotic when Texans talked of secession rather than be led
by Obama. It's equally absurd for Californians to talk of taking their Macs and
walking out after Trump's barbarians move into the White House. The United
States, without the innovative West Coast, would be a yesterday country.

Timothy Egan, based in the Pacific Northwest, writes a column for the New York
Times.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1117 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Trump, Pence consider Romney, Mattis

BYLINE: CATHERINE LUCEY and LAURIE KELLMAN Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 703 words


BEDMINSTER, N.J. - Mitt Romney is a key contender to become the nation's next
secretary of state and retired Marine Corps Gen. James Mattis was an
"impressive" prospect for defense secretary, President-elect Donald Trump and
his No. 2, Mike Pence, said Sunday.

"Gov. Romney is under active and serious consideration to serve as secretary of
state of the United States," said Pence, the vice president-elect who is leading
the search for Trump's cabinet members, in an interview on CBS's "Face the
Nation."

On Sunday, the billionaire wrote that, "General James 'Mad Dog' Mattis, who is
being considered for secretary of defense, was very impressive yesterday. A true
General's General!"

The comments were indications that Trump is looking outside his immediate circle
as he works toward rounding out his foreign policy and national security teams.
On Friday, he named a loyalist, ret. Gen. Michael Flynn, as his national
security adviser. Trump told reporters Sunday that one of his most loyal and
public allies, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, was also a prospect for
secretary of state "and other things." Giuliani at one point had been considered
for attorney general, but Trump gave that job to Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama.

Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 GOP presidential contender,
and Trump exchanged bitter insults during the campaign, and Mattis has not been
considered a Trump confidante. The appointment of more establishment figures
could offer some reassurance to lawmakers and others concerned about Trump's
hard-line positions on immigration and national security and his lack of foreign
policy experience.

But even as Trump and his team discussed pressing issues facing the country and
how to staff the incoming administration, the president-elect's Twitter feed
suggested other issues too were on his mind.

Meanwhile, Trump received more visitors to his golf club in New Jersey Sunday.
Besides Giuliani, Trump met with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, his former
transition chairman who was replaced by Pence after the election.

Trump's transition team said former Texas governor and GOP presidential rival
Rick Perry was expected to meet with Trump on Monday.

The businessman and president-elect also apparently was considering prospects to
lead the Commerce Department, meeting with billionaire investor Wilbur Ross.

"Time will tell," Ross told reporters when asked if he wanted to the post.

Trump also was making plans for transitioning his family. He told reporters
Sunday that his wife, Melania, and their 10-year-old son, Barron, would move to
Washington when the school year ends.

Both Romney and Trump put on a show of smiles, a public handshake and a
thumbs-up Saturday, a marked shift in tone after a year in which Romney attacked
Trump as a "con man" and Trump labeled him a "loser." But the two have started
to mend fences since Trump's victory over Democrat Hillary Clinton.

Trump started filling key administration positions on Friday, picking Alabama
Sen. Jeff Sessions for attorney general and Kansas Rep. Mike Pompeo to head the
CIA, signaling a sharp rightward shift in U.S. security policy as he begins to
form his Cabinet. Trump also named retired Lt. Gen Michael Flynn as his national
security adviser.

Trump's initial decisions suggest a more aggressive military involvement in
counterterror strategy and a greater emphasis on Islam's role in stoking
extremism. Sessions, who is best known for his hard line immigration views, has
questioned whether terrorist suspects should benefit from the rights available
in U.S. courts. Pompeo has said Muslim leaders are "potentially complicit" in
attacks if they do not denounce violence carried out in the name of Islam.

Pompeo's nomination to lead the CIA also opens the prospect of the U.S. resuming
torture of detainees. Trump has backed harsh interrogation techniques that
President Barack Obama and Congress have banned, saying the U.S. "should go
tougher than waterboarding," which simulates drowning. In 2014, Pompeo
criticized Obama for "ending our interrogation program" and said intelligence
officials "are not torturers, they are patriots."

Sessions and Pompeo would both require Senate confirmation; Flynn would not.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1118 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

BRIEFS

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 442 words


San Antonio police officer fatally shot while writing ticket

A San Antonio police officer writing out a traffic ticket to a motorist was shot
to death in his squad car Sunday outside police headquarters by another driver
who pulled up from behind, authorities said.

San Antonio police Chief William McManus identified the officer as Det. Benjamin
Marconi, 50, a 20-year veteran of the force.

McManus said the suspect had not been apprehended Sunday night. He said he
doesn't believe the man has any relationship to the original motorist who was
pulled over, and no motive has been identified.

McManus said the officer had pulled over a vehicle and while he was inside his
squad car writing a ticket, a car pulled up behind him. He says the driver of
that car got out, walked up to the officer's driver-side window and shot the
officer twice in the head, then walked back to his car and drove away, McManus
said.

Asia-Pacific summit closes with call to work for free trade

LIMA, Peru (AP) - Leaders of 21 Asia-Pacific nations ended their annual summit
Sunday with a call to resist protectionism amid signs of increased free-trade
skepticism, highlighted by the victory of Donald Trump in the U.S. presidential
election.

The Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum closed with a joint pledge to work
toward a sweeping new free trade agreement that would include all 21 members as
a path "sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth," despite the political
climate.

APEC noted the "rising skepticism over trade" amid an uneven recovery since the
financial crisis and said that the "the benefits of trade and open markets need
to be communicated to the wider public more effectively, emphasizing how trade
promotes innovation, employment and higher living standards."

Germany's Merkel will seek a fourth term, face populist tide

BERLIN (AP) - Angela Merkel, who has steered Germany through several global
crises as its first female leader, said Sunday she will seek a fourth term as
chancellor in elections next year, when she could find herself up against the
anti-immigrant populist tide that has swept both Europe and the U.S.

Repeatedly named "The World's Most Powerful Woman" by Forbes magazine, the
62-year-old Merkel has been cast by some as the last powerful defender of
liberal values in the West.

The nationalist Alterative for Germany party, or AfD, could prove to be one of
the biggest stumbling blocks to her re-election. The party, now represented in
10 state parliaments, has aggressively campaigned against Merkel's decision to
welcome an estimated 890,000 migrants into Germany last year, many of them
Muslims fleeing the war-torn Middle East and Africa.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1119 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Those near border say wall is unwelcome

BYLINE: FRANK BAJAK Associated Press

SECTION: C; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 799 words


LOS EBANOS, Texas - The people who live in the bustling, fertile Rio Grande
Valley, where the U.S. border meets the Gulf of Mexico, think a "virtual wall"
of surveillance technology makes a lot more sense. It's already in wide use and
expanding.

Erecting a 40-foot concrete barrier across the entire 1,954-mile frontier with
Mexico, as Trump promised during the presidential campaign, collides head-on
with multiple realities: geology, fierce local resistance and the question of
who pays the bill.

People cackled at Trump's idea that Mexico would willingly deliver the billions
required. Mexican officials say they won't. So few locals were surprised when
the president-elect seemed to soften his position five days after the election,
saying the wall could include some fencing.

"The wall is not going to stop anyone," Jorge Garcia said.

Garcia expected to lose access to most of his 30-acre riverside ranch after the
U.S. Border Fence Act was enacted a decade ago under President George W. Bush.
Garcia is still waiting to see if the Border Patrol will put a fence or wall on
the sliver of land it surveyed and promised to pay $8,300 for.

Under the law, 652 miles of border barrier were built, mostly in Arizona. The
110 miles of fences and fortified levees that went up in Texas are broken lines,
some as much as a mile and a half from the river.

The Garcias believe they and the rest of Los Ebanos' villagers were spared
because the erosion-prone clay soil is simply too unstable.

Geology conspires against wall-building up and down the Rio Grande Valley. Its
accomplices are a boundary water treaty with Mexico and endangered-species laws.
Catwalks and tunnels had to be built into border barriers to accommodate ocelots
and jaguarundi, two species of wild cat.

The plentiful breaks in the border barrier, meanwhile, include an entire flank
of the River Bend golf club and resort in Brownsville - "gaps of privilege" for
the well-connected, according to one critic.

Other landowners fought the Border Patrol in court.

"The wall might make mid-America feel safer, but for those of us that live on
the border, it's not making us feel any safer when we know that people can go
over it, around it, under it and through it," said Monica Weisberg-Stewart,
security expert for the Texas Border Coalition, a consortium of regional
leaders.

A poll conducted in Southwest border cities in May found 72 percent of residents
opposed to a wall. The Cronkite News-Univision-Dallas Morning News poll had
margin of error of 2.6 percentage points.

Local politicians have found inventive ways to make wall-building palatable. A
20-mile stretch in Hidalgo County consisted of a fortified levee topped with a
fence. In 2010, that levee held back flooding. The cost was about $10 million a
mile, though.

In the Nov. 8 election, only three Texas border counties - all sparsely
populated - went for Trump. The rest are solidly Democratic and back President
Obama's more lenient immigration policies.

The U.S. side of the border is quite safe, Weisberg-Stewart said. "We are not in
a war zone."

In fact, cross-border trade has been booming. In 2014, more than $246 billion
worth of goods and 3.7 million trucks crossed the Texas-Mexico border, according
to the coalition.

While much of the border's Mexican side has been afflicted by drug
cartel-related violence, crime in the Rio Grande Valley, home to 1.3 million
people, has been consistently lower than other Texas cities.

The Border Patrol's buildup after 9/11 is one reason, argues a former chief,
David Aguilar. Since 2004, the year he was named to the job, the number of
agents on the southwest border has climbed from 9,500 to more than 17,500.

Meanwhile, the number of border apprehensions is down from a peak of 1.6 million
in 2000 to 409,000 in the year ending in September. Nearly half were caught in
the Rio Grande Valley.

The Great Recession that began in 2008 made the U.S. less attractive to Mexican
migrants, and Central Americans fleeing violence and poverty in their homelands
now account for more than half the arrivals.

Many migrants In the Rio Grande Valley turn themselves in at border bridges.
After processing, released migrants are given court dates in destination cities
where relatives typically await. Others are sent to detention centers for
further interviews about their asylum claims.

The Border Patrol nevertheless credits surveillance technology for curbing
illegal entries, including tower-mounted surveillance cameras, motion sensors
and laser pointers.

Since 2013, the agency has also had five blimp-like aerostats that float from
1,000 to 5,000 feet above the valley on tethers and are equipped with
remote-controlled cameras. High-flying Predator drones are additional eyes in
the sky, patrolling vast areas of southwest borderlands since 2011.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1120 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Kanye West in hospitalafter abruptly cancelingfinal days of Pablo tour

SECTION: C; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 267 words


LOS ANGELES (AP) - Kanye West has been hospitalized in Los Angeles after
abruptly canceling the last 21 dates of his national tour.

A spokeswoman for the E! network, which airs the Kardashian family reality show
and its spinoffs, confirmed an E! News report that West was hospitalized Monday
afternoon after his personal doctor called 911.

Christel Wheeler said Tuesday that E! cameras were not filming when the 911 call
was made and that they are not filming at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center,
where West is being treated.

A spokeswoman for West's wife, Kim Kardashian, had no comment Tuesday.

Los Angeles police told The Associated Press on Monday that they responded to a
home in West Hollywood, California, and a person there was taken by ambulance to
the hospital and placed on a psychiatric hold. Police did not identify the
patient as West.

Wheeler said West was at the home of his personal trainer when the emergency
call was made.

West had just pulled the plug on his Saint Pablo Tour after days of erratic and
angry behavior that made an even hotter topic than usual on social media.

On Friday, during a concert in San Jose, California, West said he didn't vote in
the presidential election but would have cast a ballot for Donald Trump,
praising the president-elect's "method of communication" as "very futuristic."

On Saturday in Sacramento, California, he ended his show after just four songs
but not before a 10-minute tirade about Beyonce, Jay Z, Hillary Clinton, Mark
Zuckerberg, the radio and MTV.

Sunday's show in the Los Angeles area was canceled then West decided to scrap
the entire tour.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1121 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Populist lawmaker Wilders slams trial

BYLINE: MIKE CORDER Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 363 words


THE HAGUE, Netherlands - Populist anti-Islam lawmaker Geert Wilders delivered a
fiery closing statement Wednesday at his hate speech trial, slamming his
prosecution as a "charade, a disgrace for the Netherlands, a mockery for our
society" that threatens freedom of speech.

Wilders, whose party is riding high in Dutch opinion polls, told a three-judge
panel sitting in a heavily guarded courtroom on the outskirts of Amsterdam that,
as an elected lawmaker, he must be able to talk about the "mega-Moroccan
problem" in the Netherlands and would not be muzzled by what he branded a
political trial.

In an address that sounded as much like a campaign speech ahead of Dutch
Parliamentary elections due in March as a legal defense, Wilders cast himself as
part of a swelling global anti-establishment movement that already has
manifested itself in the British vote to leave the European Union and Donald
Trump's victory in the U.S. presidential election.

The politically charged prosecution centers on comments Wilders made before and
after the Dutch municipal elections in 2014. At one meeting in a Hague cafe, he
asked supporters whether they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the Netherlands.
That sparked a chant of "Fewer! Fewer! Fewer!" - to which he replied "we'll take
care of it."

Prosecutors say that Wilders, who in the past has been acquitted at another hate
speech trial for his outspoken criticism of Islam, overstepped the limits of
free speech by specifically targeting Moroccans.

But he insisted that the election night speech was in line with his Freedom
Party's long-held policy ambitions of expelling criminals with Moroccan
nationality, reining in immigration and encouraging voluntary repatriation.

The court will deliver its verdict and sentence Dec. 9. Prosecutors have asked
judges to convict Wilders and fine him 5,000 euros ($5,265).

Earlier Wednesday, prosecutor Wouter Bos urged judges to reject arguments put
forward by Wilders' lawyers that convicting the popular lawmaker would put the
Netherlands on a slippery slope to totalitarianism.

Wilders, in turn, harked back to his country's long history of free speech and
tolerance as he called on judges to acquit him.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1122 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

BRIEFS

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 554 words


Holiday giving may depend on how you voted in the election

NEW YORK (AP) - This holiday season, elves and "joy" may be on the way out and
"peace" and "hope" on the way in. A divisive election that left half the country
deflated and the other half rejuvenated could reverberate through the holiday
shopping season in the gifts people give or how they spend.

Some retailers say they have seen a surge in feel-good items such as spa
treatments, candles and comfort food, while executives at some major retailers
like Wal-Mart, Target and Macy's have said there's no discernable shift in
consumer behavior since the presidential election won by Republican Donald
Trump.

The divide in the outlook may reflect the rift in the election, as Americans
split along geographic lines as well as by income.

"I don't need a comfort dog. I don't need anybody to feel sorry for me," said
Rhondi Bleeker, 50, of Totowa, New Jersey. "I'm actually happy because I was for
Trump."

Bleeker, who owns an eyelash extension business, believes the economy will be
better now. She says she'll still be spending the same $3,000 as she does every
holiday season, but she believes her business could do even better because
whether people are sad or happy, most will want retail therapy.

Crash revives debate over school bus seat belts in Tennessee

NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) - A crash that killed five children in Tennessee is
reviving discussion over whether school buses - considered among the safest
vehicles on the road because of their height and bulk - should also be equipped
with seat belts.

Only six states require seat belts on large buses. Many others, including
Tennessee, have considered but dropped such legislation in recent years out of
concerns including cost.

Among those saying it is now time to reconsider is Tennessee state Rep. Joanne
Favors, who responded to the scene of Monday's crash in Chattanooga and was
shaken by the sight of the yellow bus on its side, sliced through by a tree.
Police say the driver, who has been charged with five counts of vehicular
homicide, was speeding along a narrow, winding road when he crashed.

The bus did not have seat belts, and NTSB officials said it was too soon to know
whether they would have made a difference.

Seat belt legislation introduced after two students and an aide died in a 2014
school bus crash in Knoxville did not make it out of committee, said Favors, a
Chattanooga Democrat.

FBI: Hallucinogens not found in system of face-biting suspect

STUART, Fla. (AP) - The Florida college student accused of randomly killing a
couple and chewing on the dead man's face had no detectable hallucinogenic drugs
in his system, according an FBI toxicology report released Wednesday.

Austin Harrouff had a trace of amount of marijuana in his system when he
allegedly beat and stabbed John Stevens, 59, and his 53-year-old wife, Michelle
Mishcon, outside their Tequesta-area home Aug. 15, according to the report.

Martin County Sheriff William Snyder had previously speculated that Harrouff may
have been on flakka or bath salts, but those drugs weren't detected.

Harrouff, 19, was hospitalized for two months after the killings for a burned
esophagus, possibly from ingesting chemicals found in the couple's garage.

Nellie King, Harrouff's attorney, said in a statement Wednesday that her client
is mentally ill.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1123 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Trump chooses women to fill Cabinet positions

BYLINE: JULIE BYKOWICZ and STEVE PEOPLES Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 548 words


PALM BEACH, Fla. - Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald
Trump selected two Republican women on Wednesday who disparaged him during the
presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate Betsy DeVos to lead
the federal Department of Education.

Gov. Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet Trump praised her as "a
proven dealmaker." DeVos, like Trump, is new to government but has spent decades
working to change America's system of public education.

DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts
as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is
the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minority
selection after a string of announcements of white men.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role, which would make him the first black choice - presumably as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development - but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it
over the Thanksgiving holiday.

Wednesday's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the "alt-right,"
a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election.

He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with
family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving.

Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections was evident through much
of this year's campaign.

DeVos told The Associated Press in July, "A lot of the things he has said are
very off-putting and concerning."

On Wednesday, Trump said of his UN selection: "Gov. Haley has a proven track
record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation
to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our
country."

She said she loved her South Carolina post but "when the president believes you
have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our
nation's standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed."

While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and
right.

At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor,
who has spent millions of dollars - along with her husband - to promote
candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the
Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign.

Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that
climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign
vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.

DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a "Q&A" statement that said directly
about Common Core: "I am not a supporter - period."

Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of
state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and
Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
formerly an outspoken Trump critic.

After secretary of state, the UN ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic
position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international
stage.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1124 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Trump adds two more administration picks

BYLINE: STEVE PEOPLES and TODD RICHMOND Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 745 words


MADISON, Wis. - President-elect Donald Trump pressed forward Friday with two
more administration picks, as failed Green Party candidate Jill Stein took new
steps to force recounts across key Midwestern battlegrounds that could
complicate Trump's push for national unity.

Stein, who earned little more than 1 percent of the national vote, formally
requested a Wisconsin recount Friday afternoon, vowing to do the same in the
coming days in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Wisconsin officials confirmed Friday
evening they would move forward with the first presidential recount in state
history. There is no evidence of election tampering in the states where Trump
scored razor-thin victories, but Green Party spokesman George Martin insisted
"the American public needs to have it investigated to make sure our votes
count."

"We're doing this to ensure the integrity of our system," he said.

Trump's team ignored questions about the looming recounts. Set to assume the
presidency in 55 days, he was focused instead on the daunting task of building
an administration from scratch.

Gathered with family at his Mar-a-Lago Palm Beach estate for the holiday
weekend, the incoming president made two senior-level staff appointments and
scheduled meetings with several more prospective administration officials.

He tapped Fox News analyst Kathleen Troia "KT" McFarland to serve as deputy
national security adviser and campaign attorney Donald McGahn as White House
counsel. In a statement, Trump cited McFarland's "tremendous experience and
innate talent" and said McGahn "has a brilliant legal mind, excellent character
and a deep understanding of constitutional law."

Having faced criticism about the inexperience of his initial picks, Trump finds
in McFarland someone who previously worked under three presidents, although none
since Ronald Reagan. McGahn, a veteran Republican election lawyer, served as
Trump's attorney during the campaign.

Neither position requires Senate confirmation.

Trump transition spokesman Sean Spicer said the president-elect scheduled Monday
meetings with eight more prospective administration hires, a group that includes
several business leaders, Pennsylvania Rep. Lou Barletta, and David Clarke, the
Wisconsin sheriff who is an aggressive opponent of the Black Lives Matter
movement.

Facing external pressure from Stein, there were also signs of internal discord
within the president-elect's small inner circle as Trump weighed his choices for
secretary of state.

The options for the nation's chief diplomat include former New York City Mayor
Rudy Giuliani, who lacks foreign policy experience but was intensely loyal to
Trump, and 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who aggressively
opposed Trump's candidacy but is largely regarded as more qualified.

Trump spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway took the unusual step of shining light on the
controversy over the Thanksgiving holiday, tweeting that she had been "receiving
a deluge of social media & private concerns re: Romney Some Trump loyalists warn
against Romney as sec of state."

Meanwhile, Stein announced on her website she has raised enough money to fund
recounts in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and was pursuing additional funding to do
the same in Michigan.

Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2
million votes. Trump scored narrow victories in key battleground states,
however, giving him the necessary 270 electoral votes to assume the presidency.

He won in Pennsylvania. He won in Wisconsin, breaking a Democratic winning
streak dating back 32 years. He holds a slim lead in Michigan, where a
Republican presidential candidate hadn't won since 1988.

Wisconsin, where Trump leads by little more than 22,000 votes, has never before
conducted a presidential recount. It will this year, state administrator Michael
Haas announced Friday, citing recount requests by Stein and independent
candidate Rocky De La Fuente.

In Michigan, Trump's 10,704-vote lead is expected to be certified by the state
elections board Monday. The deadline to ask for a recount is Wednesday.

A statewide recount would cost Stein roughly $790,000, said Fred Woodhams, a
spokesman for the Michigan secretary of state. An opposing candidate would have
seven days to file objections to the recount petition, after which the board
would schedule a public hearing and later issue a ruling on the objections.

Trump's transition team indicated he was focused on the challenges of governing.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1125 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Fillon wins France's conservative primary

BYLINE: SYLVIE CORBET and ANGELA CHARLTON Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 428 words


PARIS  - Francois Fillon won France's first-ever conservative presidential
primary Sunday after promising drastic free-market reforms and a crackdown on
immigration and Islamic extremism, beating a more moderate rival who had warned
of encroaching populism.

"President! President!" chanted the former prime minister's supporters as he
declared victory over Alain Juppe in a nationwide runoff election.

Polls suggest the 62-year-old Fillon, prime minister from 2007-2012 under
ex-President Nicolas Sarkozy, would have a good chance of winning the French
presidency in the April-May election.

Fillon campaigned on promises of slashing public spending, capping immigration,
support for traditional family values and friendlier ties with Russian President
Vladimir Putin. Fillon enjoyed a surprise surge in popularity in recent weeks
over longtime front-runner Juppe, who also previously served as the country's
prime minister.

In a sober victory speech, Fillon promised to defend "French values" and said
France needs "a complete change of software."

Fillon, whom Juppe had accused of running a divisive campaign that catered to
the far right, struck a slightly more inclusive tone Sunday night.

Juppe, 71, congratulated Fillon on his "wide victory." During the primary
campaign, he expressed similar ideas as his rival on the French economy, but
tried to rally conservatives around a more tolerant attitude toward France's
ethnic, religious and social diversity.

Based on results from about 88 percent of polling stations, organizers of the
center-right Republicans party primary said Fillon led with 67 percent of the
vote compared to 33 percent for Juppe.

Fillon's toughest challenge ahead is likely to be far-right leader Marine Le
Pen. Le Pen is running an anti-establishment campaign that particularly targets
immigrants, France's large Muslim minority, and the European Union.

Socialist President Francois Hollande is expected to announce in the coming
weeks whether he will seek re-election, but the French left has been deeply
weakened by Hollande's extreme unpopularity.

Both Fillon and Juppe are high-profile leaders of the Republicans party who
knocked their former boss - former President Nicolas Sarkozy - out of the
primary's first round of voting a week ago. Sarkozy then threw his weight behind
Fillon.

Sunday's runoff came after a bruising and highly adversarial end phase to the
months-long primary contest, an American-style effort to end party infighting
and bolster support for the party's nominee. The conservatives previously chose
their candidate internally.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1126 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Electors pushed to switch, say they won't bend

BYLINE: John Hageman Forum News Service

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 253 words


GRAND FORKS -- John Olson's email inbox has been inundated lately with messages
about the election.

The details vary, but the overriding message is clear: Don't vote for Donald
Trump on Dec. 19.

As one of North Dakota's three electors, Olson is tasked with representing his
state in the Electoral College by casting a vote for one of the presidential
candidates. And even though Trump won North Dakota with 63 percent of the vote,
Olson said Monday he's received "hundreds" of messages asking him to vote
against the Republican president-elect.

"I'm not conflicted. I'll be voting for Trump," said Olson, a former Republican
state lawmaker.

That appears to be the case with the other two electors, Duane Mutch and Bev
Clayburgh. Both said they've received a few letters making similar requests.

"I wouldn't even consider making a change because a large percentage of my
fellow citizens voted for Trump," said Clayburgh, who lives in Grand Forks and
has received letters from both coasts. "I'd probably have to leave the state if
I voted otherwise."

The messages to North Dakota's electors appear to be part of a larger effort
across the country. A Change.org petition asking electors to vote for Democrat
Hillary Clinton had garnered more than 4.6 million supporters as of late Monday
morning.

The electors will meet at 1 p.m. Dec. 19 at the governor's office -- the public
could attend the event -- to cast secret and separate ballots for president and
vice president, said Jim Silrum, North Dakota's deputy secretary of state.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1127 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

BRIEFS

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 470 words


Donald Trump suggests any flag burners should receive 'consequences'

WASHINGTON (AP) - President-elect Donald Trump said Tuesday that anyone who
burns an American flag should face unspecified "consequences," such as jail or a
loss of citizenship. But the Supreme Court has held that flag-burning is a form
of speech protected by the First Amendment, and the Constitution forbids the
government removal of citizenship for a natural-born American.

Top congressional Republicans quickly distanced themselves from Trump's views.

Trump's words, expressed on Twitter early Tuesday morning, put him at odds with
the late Justice Antonin Scalia, who was in the majority in the 1989 decision
that protected flag burning. Trump has called Scalia, who died in February, a
great judge and said he would appoint someone to fill Scalia's seat who is much
like the conservative legal icon.

Some voters, stung by election result, stirred to new action

NEW YORK (AP) - Three weeks out from a presidential election result that left
them deeply dejected, many liberals now say they've been roused to action in new
ways, from making donations and volunteering to considering political runs
themselves.

Around the country, even as protests have waned, Democrats say the sting of loss
has left an impact unlike any past race, stirring previously passive citizens to
push beyond their initial tears and angry Facebook posts following Donald
Trump's win. Though post-election fervor has spurred conservatives to action as
well, the gut-punch of a presidential loss has particularly energized those on
the left.

Brad Goar, a 56-year-old from Jupiter, Florida, made a flurry of moves he saw as
constructive responses.He even invited a couple who voted for Trump to join him
and his husband at their home for drinks, appetizers and some airing of
electoral differences, which was mostly cordial all around.

As some, like Goar, reached out to understand the political opposition, others
have hoisted a sign in protest for the first time.

2nd day of homage to Fidel Castro to end with mammoth rally

HAVANA (AP) - Schools and government offices were closed Tuesday for a second
day of homage to Fidel Castro, with the day ending in a rally on the wide plaza
where the Cuban leader delivered fiery speeches to mammoth crowds in the years
after he seized power.

Hundreds of thousands of Cubans have been bidding farewell to Castro, pledging
allegiance to his socialist ideology and paying tribute before images of the
leader as a young guerrilla gazing out over the country he would come to rule
for nearly a half century.

On Tuesday they were joined by two of Castro's firmest ideological allies,
presidents Nicolas Maduro of Venezuela and Evo Morales of Bolivia, who spent
several moments paying their respects before a picture of Castro as a young,
bearded rebel.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1128 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

State electors asked to not vote for Trump

BYLINE: John Hageman Forum News Service

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 671 words


GRAND FORKS -- John Olson's email inbox has been inundated lately with messages
about the election.

The details vary, but the overriding message is clear: Don't vote for Donald
Trump on Dec. 19.

As one of North Dakota's three electors, Olson is tasked with representing his
state in the Electoral College by casting a vote for one of the presidential
candidates. And even though Trump won North Dakota with 63 percent of the vote,
Olson said Monday he's received "hundreds" of messages asking him to vote
against the Republican president-elect.

"I'm not conflicted. I'll be voting for Trump," said Olson, a former Republican
state lawmaker.

That appears to be the case with the other two electors, Duane Mutch and Bev
Clayburgh. Both said they've received a few letters making similar requests.

"I wouldn't even consider making a change because a large percentage of my
fellow citizens voted for Trump," said Clayburgh, who lives in Grand Forks and
has received letters from both coasts. "I'd probably have to leave the state if
I voted otherwise."

The messages to North Dakota's electors appear to be part of a larger effort
across the country. A Change.org petition asking electors to vote for Democrat
Hillary Clinton had garnered more than 4.6 million supporters as of late Monday
morning.

It's unclear how organized the effort is, although two of the letters sent to
Clayburgh and one of the emails Olson received are almost identical. That
message, posted online as a sample letter to electors, argues that Trump is not
qualified to be president. It also points to "an unprecedented level of
interference" during the election, including the hacking of private emails,
allegations of voter suppression in swing states, FBI Director James Comey's
actions over the investigation of Clinton's use of a private email server, and
incidents of voter intimidation.

Another email Olson received Monday morning argued Trump is unqualified and has
"no regard for the office, for the Constitution, or for the dignity and
greatness of our dear country." It also points out Clinton won the national
popular vote, with her lead growing to more than 2 million, according to
Reuters.

"Of course faithless electors are incredibly rare, which is as it should be --
this is a unique circumstance, which requires emergency measures," the email to
Olson states. "Not voting for Trump (or choosing to vote for another candidate)
would be patriotic."

Twenty-one states do not require members of the Electoral College to vote for
their party's designated candidate, according to the nonprofit organization
FairVote. The most recent case of the so-called "faithless elector" came in
2004, when an unknown person from Minnesota who had pledged to vote for Democrat
John Kerry voted instead for his running mate, John Edwards, according to
FairVote.

Jim Silrum, North Dakota's deputy secretary of state, said most people
contacting his office ask for contact information for the electors.

"But some do not understand the process and think that we have some authority to
make the electors change their vote, or that we are the electors," he said in an
email.

The electors will meet at 1 p.m. Dec. 19 at the governor's office -- the public
could attend the event -- to cast secret and separate ballots for president and
vice president, Silrum said.

The Electoral College push also comes as Clinton's campaign announced over the
weekend it would join Green Party candidate Jill Stein's efforts to seek a
recount in several states where Trump won by slim margins. Marc Elias, the
Clinton campaign's counsel, said they "intend to participate in order to ensure
the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides," but he noted they
had not found "any actionable evidence of hacking or outside attempts to alter
the voting technology."

Olson said everyone is looking with some "curiosity" as to how Trump will
perform as president, but he doesn't want to "relitigate" things that were said
during the campaign.

"I think now is the time ... to move forward," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1129 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Trump tapping Washington, Wall Street for top jobs

BYLINE: STEVE PEOPLES, RICARDO ALONSO-ZALDIVAR and JULIE PACE Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump is tapping a trio of nominees with
deep ties to Washington and Wall Street to fill out his Cabinet, including
former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as treasury secretary.

On Tuesday, Trump also chose Georgia Rep. Tom Price to oversee the nation's
health care system, picking a fierce "Obamacare" critic who has championed
efforts to privatize Medicare. And he selected another veteran Republican,
Elaine Chao, to lead the Department of Transportation.

Mnuchin's official announcement was expected as early as Wednesday.

Mnuchin, 53, led Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign and
become close with the president-elect and his family. But he has no government
experience, which could prove a hurdle in navigating the tricky politics of
Washington.

Price, picked to lead the Department of Health and Human Services after more
than a decade in Congress, helped craft House Speaker Paul Ryan's plan to
privatize Medicare - a position Trump opposed in the campaign. Chao, who was the
first Asian-American woman to serve in a president's Cabinet - she served under
George W. Bush - is married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.

The selections came as Trump spent Tuesday with advisers in his Manhattan
skyscraper, racing through meetings with prospective administration hires as
high-profile vacancies loom - none bigger than secretary of State. Former
Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, on the shortlist for the nation's chief
diplomat, was to have a private dinner with the incoming president.

At the same time, Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein delivered $3.5
million to the state of Wisconsin to guarantee a recount in one of the states
that fueled Trump's unexpected victory. Stein, who is also pursuing recounts in
Pennsylvania and Michigan, has raised concerns that the results may have been
hacked.

Trump has assailed the Green Party effort as a scam and separately has made
unsupported claims of voter fraud in other states.

Meanwhile, Price's selection raised questions about the incoming president's
commitment to Medicare, among other popular entitlement programs he repeatedly
vowed to preserve before the election. The Georgia congressman led GOP efforts
on Capitol Hill to transform Medicare into a voucher-like system, a change that
if enacted, would likely dramatically reduce government spending on the health
care program that serves an estimated 57 million people.

Trump did not address Price's position on Medicare in a statement released by
his transition team. The team did not respond to subsequent questions about it.

"Chairman Price, a renowned physician, has earned a reputation for being a
tireless problem solver and the go-to expert on health care policy, making him
the ideal choice to serve in this capacity," Trump said. "He is exceptionally
qualified to shepherd our commitment to repeal and replace Obamacare and bring
affordable and accessible health care to every American."

Trump, in a 2015 interview promoted on his campaign website, pledged not to cut
expensive entitlement programs that Republicans have fought for years to cut to
help reduce the federal deficit.

"I'm not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican. And I'm not
going to cut Medicare or Medicaid. Every other Republican's going to cut," Trump
told the Daily Signal.

He later changed his mind on Medicaid, embracing the GOP concept of turning the
program over to the states with a fixed amount of federal "block grant" funding.

Like any Cabinet official, Price would carry out the wishes of the president.
And a sweeping Medicare initiative would have to go through Congress with some
Democratic support, which would be unlikely.

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders charged that Price "has a long history of wanting to
do exactly the opposite of what Trump campaigned on."

"Rep. Price has a long history of wanting to cut Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid. What hypocrisy!" Sanders said in a statement.

Like Price, Chao is well-known in Washington, having led the Department of Labor
for several years.

Her record as labor secretary suggests she would bring a light hand to safety
enforcement as transportation secretary. Under Chao at Labor, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration didn't issue a single significant new safety
regulation for four years. Mine safety inspectors were cut and inspections
reduced.

Whether it's integrating drones into the national airspace, deploying
self-driving cars or "some other new technology, she's not going to be
especially inclined to second guess the industry when they say that this will be
safe," said Thomas McGarity, a University of Texas law professor and author of
"Freedom to Harm," a book about the Labor Department that includes Chao's
tenure.

Both Price and Chao would require Senate confirmation. Major Cabinet vacancies
remain.

The president-elect summoned Romney for dinner Tuesday night to discuss the
secretary of state job for a second time. He also met with Tennessee Sen. Bob
Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, having met with
former CIA director David Petraeus the day before.

After his meeting, Corker told reporters, "The world needs to know that the
secretary of state is someone who speaks fully for the president," a possible
jab at Romney, who aggressively opposed Trump's candidacy.

Transition aides said Trump was likely at least a few days away from a decision.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1130 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Green Party Stein makes Michigan third state for recount

BYLINE: DAVID EGGERT Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 415 words


LANSING, Mich. - Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein on Wednesday
requested a full hand recount of Michigan's presidential vote, making it the
third state narrowly won by Republican Donald Trump where she wants another look
at the results.

Stein previously asked for recounts of the votes in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

President-elect Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton by about 10,700 votes
out of nearly 4.8 million ballots cast in Michigan, or two-tenths of a
percentage point. But Stein alleges that irregularities and the possibility that
vote scanning devices could have been hacked call the results into question.
Elections officials in all three states have expressed confidence in the
results.

Michigan's recount could start as early as Friday, though a challenge to the
recount by Trump may delay it.

University of Michigan computer scientist Alex Halderman, who says voting
machines and optical scanners that count ballots are prone to errors and outside
manipulation, told reporters that the recount will show "for sure" whether
cyber-attacks have occurred.

Trump's victory is highly unlikely to be reversed in any of the states.

The GOP says a Michigan recount would cost taxpayers far more than the $973,000
Stein paid when filing her recount petition.

Secretary of State Ruth Johnson, a Republican, called Stein's request "unusual,"
especially since there is no evidence of fraud or "even a credible allegation of
any tampering.

"Nevertheless, county clerks have been gearing up to complete this recount under
a very challenging (Dec. 13) deadline," she said. "They'll be working nights and
weekends. I know they will do a great job because we have some of the best
clerks in the country here in Michigan."

Meanwhile in Wisconsin, where Trump defeated Clinton by roughly 22,000 votes,
Stein's campaign said it won't appeal a judge's ruling that Wisconsin's recount
can be done without counting every ballot by hand. Most counties plan to do hand
recounts anyway. That recount is due to start Thursday.

The Wisconsin Republican Party filed a complaint with the Federal Elections
Commission on Wednesday alleging that Stein's recount effort amounts to illegal
coordination with Clinton designed to circumvent the law and public scrutiny.

Stein's campaign manager, David Cobb, said in a statement that Stein isn't
coordinating with anyone and he dismissed the complaint as a "PR stunt to push a
false narrative that will ultimately have no impact on the recount in
Wisconsin."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1131 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

'Draining swamp' or diving right in?

BYLINE: JULIE PACE and JOSH BOAK Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 811 words


WASHINGTON - Donald Trump promised to "drain the swamp" in the nation's capital.
Instead, he's diving right in.

So far, the president-elect is tapping people with deep ties to Washington and
Wall Street as he fills out his Cabinet, turning to two power centers he
vilified as greedy, corrupt and out of touch with Americans during his White
House campaign. His choices have won praise from Republicans relieved by his
more conventional choices, but could risk angering voters who rallied behind his
calls for upending the political system.

Two of Trump's early picks are wealthy financial industry insiders with ties to
the kinds of institutions he railed against as a candidate. Elaine Chao, his
choice for transportation secretary and an accomplished political figure in her
own right, is married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell - blending
family and political power in a way Trump fiercely criticized campaign rival
Hillary Clinton for. Jeff Sessions, Trump's selection for attorney general, has
spent two decades in the Senate, and Tom Price, his health and human services
nominee, is a six-term congressman.

The gap between Trump's campaign rhetoric and his governing decisions is most
striking regarding his emerging economic team. On Wednesday, he announced that
he planned to nominate former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as his
Treasury secretary and billionaire investor Wilbur Ross to lead the Commerce
Department.

As a candidate, Trump said Wall Street had created "tremendous problems" for the
country. He included the CEO of Goldman Sachs in a television advertisement that
accused global financial powers of having "robbed our working class."

Mnuchin and Ross also have financial links to Trump's White House bid, with
Mnuchin having led the campaign's fundraising efforts. Trump repeatedly bragged
that his personal wealth - he mostly self-funded his campaign during the
primaries - meant he would not be beholden to donors who might expect their
financial contributions to be repaid with powerful jobs or insider access.

"I can't be bought," Trump said during the campaign. "I won't owe anybody
anything."

Trump's transition team brushed aside questions about whether there are
inconsistencies between the president-elect's campaign rhetoric and his Cabinet
picks.

"These are experts who know how to win," spokesman Jason Miller said Wednesday.

By picking billionaires, as well as a smattering of millionaires, for his
Cabinet, Trump is asking voters to trust that privileged insiders can help a
stressed and dispirited middle class - even though he, like past presidential
candidates, promised he would change that dynamic. Few of his choices have
outwardly displayed much of a common touch. Many live surrounded by a level of
wealth that most Americans struggle to fathom - and prospered in recent decades
as many Americans coped with stagnant incomes.

Not only did Mnuchin once work at Goldman Sachs, but so did his father. After
leaving the investment bank in 2002, the Yale graduate pivoted into hedge fund
management and producing blockbuster movies such as "Batman vs Superman: Dawn of
Justice." Mnuchin invested in the wreckage of the housing crisis, scooping up
the troubled bank IndyMac and turning a $1.6 billion profit in under a year as
millions of Americans endured foreclosure.

Ross orbits a similar world as Trump, as both of them have luxurious homes in
Manhattan and Palm Beach, Florida. The billionaire investor bought up many
struggling steel, auto and coal firms in the industrial Midwest at a steep
discount and sold them for steep profits, even as factory and mining jobs at the
core of American identity disappeared.

Chao is the offspring of a Chinese shipping magnate, in addition to serving on
the boards of Wells Fargo bank, Dole Food and News Corp., the parent of Fox
News. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, the wealthiest of Trump's Cabinet
nominees thus far, married into the family that started the sales company Amway.

Trump and other Republicans spent months warning voters that a possible Clinton
administration would be lined with Wall Street insiders, campaign donors and
other special interest hires. But GOP officials have raised no such concerns
about Trump's picks.

If anything, some Republicans appear relieved. Many of Trump's picks are cut
from a more traditional Republican mold and share the party's ideological
preferences, in some cases more so than Trump himself.

"The picks so far have been fantastic and well-received by Republicans and
conservatives of all stripes," said Cesar Conda, the former chief of staff for
Florida Sen. Marco Rubio. "Trump is unifying the party, which is essential to
getting his agenda enacted."

House Speaker Paul Ryan, a lukewarm Trump supporter for much of the campaign,
praised the economic picks Wednesday, saying he was "excited to get to work with
this strong team."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1132 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Election recount begins in Wisconsin

BYLINE: SCOTT BAUER Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 713 words


MADISON, Wis. - The tedious task of recounting Wisconsin's nearly 3 million
votes for president began Thursday, with scores of hastily hired temporary
workers flipping through stacks of ballots as observers watched their every
move.

The action in Wisconsin could soon be duplicated in Michigan and Pennsylvania,
where Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein was pushing for recounts.
Donald Trump narrowly beat Hillary Clinton in all three states, but recounts
were not expected to flip enough votes to change the outcome in any of them.

The Wisconsin recount marked the first time in 16 years there was a
candidate-driven recount for a presidential election. But it does not carry the
same drama as the Florida presidential recount of 2000, when the outcome of the
election between Al Gore and George W. Bush hung in the balance.

"This is certainly not Bush v. Gore," said Wisconsin's chief elections
administrator, Mike Haas.

Even so, the campaigns for Trump, Clinton and Stein all had observers spread
throughout the state to watch the process.

The recount will have to move quickly. The federal deadline to certify the vote
to avoid having the fate of Wisconsin's 10 electoral votes decided by Congress
is Dec. 13. If that were to happen, the votes would almost certainly go to
Trump, since Republicans control both chambers of Congress.

Most counties will manually recount the ballots, although Stein lost a court
challenge this week to force hand recounts everywhere. The state's largest
county, Milwaukee, was recounting the ballots by feeding them through the same
machines that counted them on election night. In Dane County, where Clinton won
71 percent of the vote, the ballots were being counted by hand.

Workers in Dane County are being paid $20 an hour and will work two shifts over
about 12 hours a day to get the recount done by the deadline, said County Clerk
Scott McDonell. He didn't expect much change in the results.

"I think we will be very close to what was reported on election night," McDonell
said Thursday.

Clinton lost to Trump by about 22,000 votes in Wisconsin -- less than a
percentage point.

Stein has argued, without evidence, that irregularities in the votes in all
three states suggest that there could have been tampering with the vote, perhaps
through a well-coordinated, highly complex cyberattack.

"Verifying the vote through this recount is the only way to confirm that every
vote has been counted securely and accurately and is not compromised by machine
or human error, or by tampering or hacking," Stein said in a statement Thursday.

Stein's critics, including the Wisconsin Republican Party, contend that she is
merely trying to raise her own profile while raising millions of dollars. Stein
has taken in nearly $7 million for the recounts, which is about twice as much as
her long-shot presidential campaign raised.

The Wisconsin recount was estimated to cost about $3.9 million. Stein paid
$973,250 for the requested recount in Michigan.

Trump on Thursday objected to a recount of Michigan's presidential votes, at
least delaying the planned Friday start of the recount there until next week.

The Board of State Canvassers will meet Friday to hear arguments. The Michigan
Bureau of Elections said the recount cannot proceed until two business days
after the four-member, bipartisan board resolves the objection.

Trump's attorneys said Stein, who finished fourth in Michigan, is not
"aggrieved" by any alleged election fraud or mistake, that a recount could not
be finished on time and that her petition was not properly signed. They said
Stein is asking for an expensive, time-consuming recount "on the basis of
nothing more than speculation."

Stein countered that Trump's "cynical efforts to delay the recount and create
unnecessary costs for taxpayers are shameful and outrageous."

In Pennsylvania, a hearing is scheduled for Monday on Stein's push to secure a
court-ordered statewide recount, a legal maneuver that has never been tried,
according to one of the lawyers who filed it.

Stein's attorneys want a forensic analysis of electronic voting machines in
Pennsylvania to see if there any evidence that their software was hacked. But
counties where Green Party-backed voters have sought a recount are refusing to
do such forensic examinations.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1133 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday

Kucinich, Quinault tribe to visit protest

BYLINE: LAUREN DONOVAN Bismarck Tribune

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 266 words


In addition to 2,000 armed forces veterans coming in support of the anti-Dakota
Access Pipeline camp this weekend, the months-long protest gathering will be
visited by a former Democratic presidential candidate, Dennis Kucinich, as well
as the Quinault Indian Nation Tribal Council.

Kucinich, who also served eight terms in the U.S. House of Representatives, will
arrive Sunday and spend several days at the camp.

"We believe our Native American brothers and sisters are birthing a new civil
rights movement, with powerful implications for our nation and the planet," he
said.

His arrival will coincide with the veterans' show of support Monday, the day the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers had set as a deadline for people to leave the Oceti
Sakowin camp, occupied from late summer and now into winter, by as many as 5,000
protesters. People at the camp have said they have no intentions of leaving, at
the same time the corps says it will not enforce an eviction.

The Washington Quinault tribe said in a statement it is returning to the camp
for the third time, after staging a symbolic canoe journey from Bismarck to the
camp in October and establishing a winter camp at Oceti Sakowin in November.

Quinault Tribal President Fawn Sharp said her tribe is fighting to keep Bakken
oil from coming into its shipping ports.

"We realize this country will continue to need oil for years to come. But
priority must be placed on the protection of natural resources, treaty rights,
cultural resources and the pursuit of clean energy. Water is life," she said.

(Reach Lauren Donovan at 701-220-5511 or lauren@westriv.com)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1134 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday

'Two Trumps' begin to surface during transition

BYLINE: JULIE PACE and JONATHAN LEMIRE Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 752 words


NEW YORK - Donald Trump's skeptics hope the presidency will reveal a serious
side of the brash businessman. His supporters want him to keep the freewheeling
style that rattled Washington.

In true Trump fashion, so far he's doing both.

Trump has soothed some Republican establishment anxieties with many of his early
Cabinet picks, including the respected retired Gen. James Mattis to lead the
Pentagon and Georgia Rep. Tom Price, an orthopedic surgeon tapped to head the
Department of Health and Human Services. He's hinted that he's open to shifting
some of his most controversial policies, including his rejection of climate
change and support for torture. He's been full of praise for President Barack
Obama and largely respectful of Hillary Clinton, his vanquished campaign rival.

But Trump is also refusing to abandon the raucous, stream-of-consciousness
rallies and Twitter tirades that defined his presidential campaign. He's
continued to level false statements, claiming without evidence that millions of
people voted illegally in the election. And he's infused the normally staid
Cabinet selection process with reality television drama, inviting cameras into
his dinner with Mitt Romney, a leading candidate for secretary of state, and
announcing the secretary of defense pick in an arena, seemingly off the cuff.

"He was a very unconventional candidate," House Speaker Paul Ryan said. "He's
going to be an unconventional president."

Despite his tell-it-like-it-is reputation, Trump is fueled by a deep need to be
liked, according to long-time associates. He often modulates his tone to his
setting and frequently tries to curry favor with his audience by telling them
what he thinks they want to hear. He often speaks in vague generalities, his
policy plans short on details, and that allows supporters to read in what they
wish.

And sometimes he seems to move in contradictions, as when he made simultaneous
appointments of Reince Priebus - a nod to the Washington establishment - and
Stephen Bannon - a shot across the establishment's bow - to fill two key roles
in his administration, giving opposing factions of his coalition something to
cheer.

People who meet with the president-elect personally talk about there being "two
Trumps" - the self-promoting celebrity that's seen in public and the amiable and
courteous grandfather who emerges in private.

"He's charming in person," said John Allison, the former CEO of BB&T, who
recently met with Trump. "He absolutely has a lot of personal charisma."

Indeed, Trump has appeared to win over some of his toughest Republican critics
since defeating Clinton. GOP lawmakers have praised all of his Cabinet nominees,
some of whom hold more traditionally conservative views than Trump himself.
Romney, who was one of Trump's fiercest critics during the campaign, emerged
from their dinner this week with warm words for a man he'd only recently called
a "phony."

"He continues with a message of inclusion and bringing people together and his
vision is something which obviously connected with the American people in a very
powerful way," Romney said in a stunning turnabout for the 2012 GOP nominee.

But Trump appears acutely aware that the enthusiastic supporters who propelled
him to the White House are watching carefully to see if he'll back away from his
pledges to shake up the political system. Supporters shouted their opposition to
Romney being in the Cabinet Thursday as Trump stood on stage in Cincinnati for
the kickoff of a "thank you" tour for voters.

Trump gave them plenty else to cheer about, fully re-embracing his firebrand and
raucous campaign persona.

He took the stage full of swagger and as focused on score-settling as he was
during the campaign. He spent more than 10 minutes bashing the press, recounting
how the media doubted his chances of winning.

"These are very, very dishonest people," said Trump, one of several times during
the night when he incited the crowd to jeer the press gathered in the pen at the
back of the arena. "Ok, I love this stuff. Should I go on with this just a
little bit longer? I love it." Shifting to how he broke Clinton's so-called
Midwest firewall, he said, "We didn't break it, we shattered that sucker. We
shattered it, man. That poor wall is busted up."

Trump did hit some of the right notes in terms of unifying the nation when he
managed to stick to the script rolling down the teleprompter. He called for a
"truly inclusive society, where we support each other, love each other, and look
out for each other."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1135 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday

Commission urges better cybersecurity

BYLINE: TAMI ABDOLLAH and DARLENE SUPERVILLE Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 814 words


WASHINGTON - A national commission on Friday delivered urgent recommendations to
improve the nation's cybersecurity, weeks before President-elect Donald Trump
takes office. The report follows the worst hacking of U.S. government systems in
history and accusations by the Obama administration that Russia meddled in the
U.S. presidential election by hacking Democrats.

The Presidential Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity, which was
expected to spell out actions the U.S. can take over the next 10 years, instead
urged more immediate actions within two to five years. It suggested the Trump
administration consider some items "deserving action" within the first 100 days.

It recommended that Trump create an assistant to the president for
cybersecurity, who would report through the national security adviser, and
establish an ambassador for cybersecurity, who would lead efforts to create
international rules. It urged steps to end the threat of identity theft by 2021
and said Trump's administration should train 100,000 new cybersecurity workers
by 2020.

Other ideas included helping consumers to judge products using an independent
"nutritional label" for technology products and services.

The White House requested the report in February and intended it to serve as a
transition memo for the next president. The commission included 12 of what the
White House described as the brightest minds in business, academia, technology
and security. It was led by Tom Donilon, Obama's former national security
adviser.

The panel studied sharing information with private companies about cyber
threats, the lack of talented American security engineers and distrust of the
U.S. government by private businesses, especially in Silicon Valley. Classified
documents stolen under Obama by Edward Snowden, a contractor for the National
Security Agency, revealed government efforts to hack into the data pipelines
used by U.S. companies to serve customers overseas.

One commissioner, Herbert Lin of Stanford University, said some senior
information technology managers distrust the federal government as much as they
distrust China, widely regarded as actively hacking in the U.S.

President Barack Obama said in a written statement after meeting with Donilon
that his administration will take additional action "wherever possible" to build
on its efforts to make progress before he leaves office next month. He urged
Trump and the next Congress to treat the recommendations as a guide.

It was not immediately clear whether Trump would accept this recent report, much
less act on its recommendations. Trump won the election on promises to reduce
government regulations, although decades of relying on market pressure or asking
businesses voluntarily to make their products and services safer to use have
been largely ineffective.

Trump is a prolific user of online social media services, especially Twitter,
but he is rarely seen using a laptop or other computer. His campaign manager,
Kellyanne Conway, tweeted a photograph Monday of Trump working on an Apple
laptop inside his office at Trump Tower. Trump testified in a deposition in 2012
that he did not own a personal computer or smartphone, and earlier this year in
another deposition said he deliberately does not use email. "We've figured that
out," Trump said. "Took a lot of people a long time to figure that out."

Trump has already promised his own study by a "Cyber Review Team" of people he
said he will select from military, law enforcement and private sectors. He said
his team will develop mandatory cyber awareness training for all U.S. government
employees, and he has proposed a buildup of U.S. military offensive and
defensive cyber capabilities that he said will deter foreign hackers.

The new report suggested that the government should remain the only organization
responsible for responding to large-scale attacks by foreign countries.

Obama has a mixed legacy on cybersecurity.

Under Obama, hackers stole personal data from the U.S. Office of Personnel
Management on more than 21 million current, former and prospective government
employees, including details of security-clearance background investigations for
federal agents, intelligence employees and others. The White House also failed
in its efforts to convince Congress to pass a national law - similar to laws
passed in some states - to require hacked companies to notify affected
customers.

But the Obama administration also became more aggressive about publicly
identifying foreign governments it accused of hacking U.S. victims, arrested
some high-profile hackers overseas, successfully shut down some large networks
of hacked computers used to attack online targets, enacted but never actually
used economic sanctions against countries that hacked American targets and used
a sophisticated new cyberweapon called Stuxnet against Iran's main nuclear
enrichment facilities.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1136 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday

House passes $611B defense policy bill

BYLINE: RICHARD LARDNER Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 791 words


WASHINGTON - The Republican-led House on Friday overwhelmingly backed a $611
billion defense policy bill that rejects a number of President Barack Obama's
key proposals for managing the nation's vast military enterprise.

Lawmakers passed the legislative package, 375-34. The bill now goes to the
Senate where a vote is expected early next week.

The bill, crafted after weeks of talks between House and Senate negotiators,
prohibits Obama from following through on his longstanding campaign pledge to
close the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The bill also bars the Pentagon from
reducing the number of military bases even though senior U.S. defense officials
said there is excess capacity, and it awards U.S. troops their largest pay raise
in six years. Obama had recommended a smaller pay increase.

The bill would prevent the Pentagon from forcing thousands of California
National Guard troops to repay enlistment bonuses and benefits they received a
decade after they signed up to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan. Soldiers would
have to return a bonus only if a "preponderance of the evidence" shows they knew
they weren't eligible to receive the money.

Even at $611 billion, the Republican chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee lamented that more money is needed in the defense budget to restock
the U.S. arsenal worn down by 15 years of conflict. Rep. Mac Thornberry of Texas
said he is hopeful President-elect Donald Trump, who pledged during the campaign
to spend more on the military, will ask Congress early next year to boost fiscal
year 2017 military spending even further.

During his 2008 bid for president, Obama pledged to close the detention facility
at Guantanamo, which he called a recruiting tool for extremist groups. But
Republicans and a number of Democrats repeatedly thwarted his goal over the
ensuing years, arguing the prison was badly needed for housing suspected
terrorists. The ban on closing the prison also includes a prohibition on moving
Guantanamo detainees to secure facilities in the U.S.

Trump has not only pledged to keep Guantanamo open, he said during the campaign
that he wants to "load it up with some bad dudes."

The defense legislation also authorizes a 2.1 percent pay raise for the troops -
a half-percentage point higher than the Pentagon requested in its budget
presentation. The Republican chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Sen. John
McCain of Arizona, said it's the largest military pay increase since 2010.

The White House Office of Management and Budget objected to the larger raise,
telling lawmakers earlier this year that the lower amount would save $336
million this fiscal year and $2.2 billion through 2021. A bigger increase, the
budget office said, would upset the careful balance between competitive pay and
acquiring cutting-edge equipment and training.

The bill blocks the Pentagon's planned reductions in the number of active-duty
troops by prohibiting the Army from falling below 476,000 active-duty soldiers -
16,000 more than Obama's defense budget had proposed. The bill also adds 7,000
service members to the Air Force and Marine Corps.

House and Senate negotiators dropped a House plan to shift $18 billion from the
emergency wartime spending account to pay for additional weapons and combat gear
the Pentagon didn't include in its budget request. They elected instead to boost
the wartime account, which isn't constrained by mandatory budget limits, by $3.2
billion to help halt a decline in the military's ability to respond to global
threats.

The decision may have been motivated by Trump's assurances that he would
increase defense spending dramatically, allowing the armed forces to add tens of
thousands more troops and acquire new weapons.

The defense bill contains $5.8 billion in additional war-related funding Obama
requested last month primarily for operations in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan.
That includes $2.5 billion to maintain elevated U.S. troop levels of 8,400 in
Afghanistan as announced over the summer. About $383 million would pay for air
strikes against Islamic State militants.

Lawmakers avoided wading more deeply into social policy issues by stripping two
contentious provisions from the bill. One, opposed by Democrats, would have
allowed federal contractors to discriminate against workers on the basis of
sexual or gender orientation. Another, opposed by Republicans, would have
required for the first time in U.S. history that young women sign up for a
potential military draft.

The Obama administration on Thursday declared its support for requiring women to
register for the military draft, a symbolic but significant shift that reflects
the U.S. military's evolution from a male-dominated force to one seeking to
incorporate women at all levels.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1137 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

New life between the extremes

SECTION: C; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 830 words


Over the past few decades, party loyalty has been the defining feature of
national politics. Especially in the House but even in the Senate, members
deferred to their party leaders. Congress as a whole deferred to the presidency.
Members of the president's own party acted as his foot soldiers. Members of the
other party acted as his opposition.

But Donald Trump's victory smashes all that. He is hostile to the Republican
establishment. His proposals cut across orthodox partisan lines.

As Bill Kristol told me, the coming Congress may not look like the recent
Congresses, when party-line voting was the rule. A vote on an infrastructure
bill may look very different from a vote on health care or education or foreign
policy. This may be a Congress with many caucuses - floating coalitions rather
than just follow-the-leader obedience.

Meanwhile, as Christopher DeMuth wrote recently in The Wall Street Journal,
committee chairmen may reassert authority against the executive branch. Trump's
authoritarian style represents an assault on the traditional separation of
powers. He may end up energizing all those constitutional forms and practices he
stands against.

What's about to happen in Washington may be a little like the end of the Cold
War - bipolarity gives way to multipolarity. A system dominated by two
party-line powers gives way to a system with a lot of different power centers.
Instead of just R's and D's, there will be a Trump-dominated populist
nationalism, a more libertarian Freedom Caucus, a Bernie Sanders/Elizabeth
Warren progressive caucus, a Chuck Schumer/Nancy Pelosi Democratic old guard.

The most important caucus formation will be in the ideological center. There's a
lot of room between the alt-right and the alt-left, between Trumpian
authoritarianism and Sanders socialism.

Until now, people in that space have been slow to create donor networks, slow to
form think tanks, slow to build coalitions of moderate legislators. But suddenly
there's a flurry of activity between the extremes.

For example, Bill Kristol and Bill Galston have worked in the White Houses of
different parties and had voted for the opposite presidential candidates in
every election for four decades. But Trump has reminded them how much they agree
on the fundamentals.

The two Bills have now issued a joint statement calling for "a New Center." It's
a defense of the basic institutions and practices of our constitutional order,
which now seem under assault. It's an attempt to learn from the election results
and craft a governing philosophy that people of different parties can rally
around.

That's in the realm of ideas. In the realm of organization there's also a flurry
of activity. David Burstein's group, Run for America, is recruiting a new
generation of political candidates.

The most active centrist organization, No Labels, began six years ago in
opposition to polarized, cutthroat politics. The problem with the group back
then was that there was no future to a political movement whose first name is
"No." You have to be for something.

But under the leadership of its undeterrable co-founder, Nancy Jacobson, No
Labels has evolved. It created a package of reform ideas to make Congress and
the executive branch work together. It created an active congressional caucus,
called the Problem Solvers Caucus, which now has 80 members, divided roughly
evenly between both parties.

It has been building grass-roots activities, which have so far engaged 1 million
people. It created a "super PAC" so that members of Congress who vote as
centrists can get some political protection. It recently published a policy
playbook with 60 proposals to create jobs, reform the tax code, balance the
budget and secure entitlement programs.

Going forward, moderates face four big challenges. First, deepen a positive
national vision that is not merely a positioning between left and right. Second,
elevate a new generation of political leaders so the movement is not just a
retread of retired establishment types.

Third, build a mass movement of actual voters, not just financiers and
think-tank johnnies. Fourth, have the courage to stand together as a swing
legislative caucus, when the pressure from the party leaderships becomes
intense.

It's an uphill climb, but this is a fertile moment. The Trump/Sanders era is
going to create new opposition blocs, filled with people who never thought they
would be working together.

Moreover, the future of this country is not going to be found in protecting jobs
that are long gone or in catering to the fears of aging whites. There is a
raging need for a movement that embraces economic dynamism, global engagement
and social support - that is part Milton Friedman on economic policy, Ronald
Reagan on foreign policy and Franklin Roosevelt on welfare policy.

The new center will probably start as a legislative caucus with members of both
parties. Where it goes from there is anybody's guess.

David Brooks writes a syndicated column for the New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1138 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

Leader promises 'a new Gambia'

BYLINE: CARLEY PETESCH Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 566 words


YUNDUM, Gambia - Gambia's newly elected president on Saturday vowed to free all
political prisoners and urged exiles who fled the 22-year reign of Yahya Jammeh
to return from abroad and help him reform the tiny West African country.

"A new Gambia is born," Adama Barrow said in an interview the day after his
upset election win. "We want everybody on board now. This is Gambia. Politics is
over."

A former businessman and now real estate mogul who became the unlikely head of a
formidable opposition coalition, Barrow, 51, said he plans to preside during a
three-year transition before another presidential election is held.

He also said he planned to reverse Jammeh's decisions to pull out of both the
Commonwealth, a group made up mostly of former British colonies, and the
International Criminal Court, which prosecutes atrocities and other human rights
abuses.

South Africa, Burundi and Gambia all previously announced plans to withdraw from
the ICC, saying the court unfairly singles out African nations.

"The ICC is advocating for good governance. If you want to be part of that, I
think there is no need for you to withdraw from the ICC," Barrow said.

Raucous celebrations erupted Friday after Gambia's election commission announced
Barrow had won the Thursday vote, earning 45 percent of the total compared with
Jammeh's 36 percent.

The streets were calmer on Saturday, but Gambians still were clearly excited
about the pending transfer of power, marveling at the fact that Jammeh had
conceded defeat in a phone call aired on state television Friday night.

Barrow, too, is optimistic about the future.

"I'm very happy because everybody thought that it was impossible, and the
impossible became possible," he said in the interview at his modest home east of
the capital, Banjul.

On Saturday, relatives, friends and coalition leaders gathered under trees out
on the lawn, and Barrow was greeted with cheers, hugs and a local prayer singer.
He said his two wives, five children and mother would join him in Gambia's State
House when he assumes office in January.

While officially elected to a five-year term, Barrow noted that he has agreed to
serve only three years with a goal of repairing Gambia's democracy before making
way for new leadership.

"When we get that done, then the foundation is there; and myself, I will not be
in the political scene," he said.

Barrow said he would prioritize reviving the country's stagnant economy and
improving its relationships within the international community.

The United States was among the many countries critical of the human rights
situation under Jammeh, who stood accused of heading a government that tortured
opponents and silenced all dissent.

On Saturday, Secretary of State John Kerry congratulated Barrow on his win and
noted that his inauguration as president would mark Gambia's first democratic
transfer of power.

"We call for unity and calm during this transition period," Kerry said.

In addition to recommitting Gambia to the International Criminal Court, Barrow
said his government would examine abuses under Jammeh while following due
process and administering justice that would not be "personal."

He also promised reforms to the security forces, which were accused of many
abuses under Jammeh.

"We will improve their training to give them the professionalism to do their
job," Barrow said. "With our government, they will be distanced from politics."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1139 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

New life between the extremes

SECTION: C; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 830 words


Over the past few decades, party loyalty has been the defining feature of
national politics. Especially in the House but even in the Senate, members
deferred to their party leaders. Congress as a whole deferred to the presidency.
Members of the president's own party acted as his foot soldiers. Members of the
other party acted as his opposition.

But Donald Trump's victory smashes all that. He is hostile to the Republican
establishment. His proposals cut across orthodox partisan lines.

As Bill Kristol told me, the coming Congress may not look like the recent
Congresses, when party-line voting was the rule. A vote on an infrastructure
bill may look very different from a vote on health care or education or foreign
policy. This may be a Congress with many caucuses - floating coalitions rather
than just follow-the-leader obedience.

Meanwhile, as Christopher DeMuth wrote recently in The Wall Street Journal,
committee chairmen may reassert authority against the executive branch. Trump's
authoritarian style represents an assault on the traditional separation of
powers. He may end up energizing all those constitutional forms and practices he
stands against.

What's about to happen in Washington may be a little like the end of the Cold
War - bipolarity gives way to multipolarity. A system dominated by two
party-line powers gives way to a system with a lot of different power centers.
Instead of just R's and D's, there will be a Trump-dominated populist
nationalism, a more libertarian Freedom Caucus, a Bernie Sanders/Elizabeth
Warren progressive caucus, a Chuck Schumer/Nancy Pelosi Democratic old guard.

The most important caucus formation will be in the ideological center. There's a
lot of room between the alt-right and the alt-left, between Trumpian
authoritarianism and Sanders socialism.

Until now, people in that space have been slow to create donor networks, slow to
form think tanks, slow to build coalitions of moderate legislators. But suddenly
there's a flurry of activity between the extremes.

For example, Bill Kristol and Bill Galston have worked in the White Houses of
different parties and had voted for the opposite presidential candidates in
every election for four decades. But Trump has reminded them how much they agree
on the fundamentals.

The two Bills have now issued a joint statement calling for "a New Center." It's
a defense of the basic institutions and practices of our constitutional order,
which now seem under assault. It's an attempt to learn from the election results
and craft a governing philosophy that people of different parties can rally
around.

That's in the realm of ideas. In the realm of organization there's also a flurry
of activity. David Burstein's group, Run for America, is recruiting a new
generation of political candidates.

The most active centrist organization, No Labels, began six years ago in
opposition to polarized, cutthroat politics. The problem with the group back
then was that there was no future to a political movement whose first name is
"No." You have to be for something.

But under the leadership of its undeterrable co-founder, Nancy Jacobson, No
Labels has evolved. It created a package of reform ideas to make Congress and
the executive branch work together. It created an active congressional caucus,
called the Problem Solvers Caucus, which now has 80 members, divided roughly
evenly between both parties.

It has been building grass-roots activities, which have so far engaged 1 million
people. It created a "super PAC" so that members of Congress who vote as
centrists can get some political protection. It recently published a policy
playbook with 60 proposals to create jobs, reform the tax code, balance the
budget and secure entitlement programs.

Going forward, moderates face four big challenges. First, deepen a positive
national vision that is not merely a positioning between left and right. Second,
elevate a new generation of political leaders so the movement is not just a
retread of retired establishment types.

Third, build a mass movement of actual voters, not just financiers and
think-tank johnnies. Fourth, have the courage to stand together as a swing
legislative caucus, when the pressure from the party leaderships becomes
intense.

It's an uphill climb, but this is a fertile moment. The Trump/Sanders era is
going to create new opposition blocs, filled with people who never thought they
would be working together.

Moreover, the future of this country is not going to be found in protecting jobs
that are long gone or in catering to the fears of aging whites. There is a
raging need for a movement that embraces economic dynamism, global engagement
and social support - that is part Milton Friedman on economic policy, Ronald
Reagan on foreign policy and Franklin Roosevelt on welfare policy.

The new center will probably start as a legislative caucus with members of both
parties. Where it goes from there is anybody's guess.

David Brooks writes a syndicated column for the New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1140 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                            December 5, 2016 Monday

Nazi card is on the table again

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 856 words


Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn., the odds-on favorite to become the Democratic
National Committee's chairman, had a long association with the anti-Semitic
Nation of Islam. He compared then-President George W. Bush and 9/11 to Adolf
Hitler and the destruction of the Reichstag, the German parliament building:
"9/11 is the juggernaut in American history and it allows ... it's almost like,
you know, the Reichstag fire," Ellison said. "After the Reichstag was burned,
they blamed the Communists for it, and it put the leader of that country
(Hitler) in a position where he could basically have authority to do whatever he
wanted."

Comparing Republicans to Nazis has long been a national pastime of the
Democratic Party.

During the 1964 Goldwater/Johnson presidential race, Republican presidential
candidate Barry Goldwater accepted an invitation to visit an American military
installation located in Bavaria, Germany. On "CBS Evening News," hosted by
Walter Cronkite, correspondent Daniel Schorr said: "It is now clear that Sen.
Goldwater's interview with Der Spiegel, with its hard line appealing to
right-wing elements in Germany, was only the start of a move to link up with his
opposite numbers in Germany." The reaction shot - when the cameras returned to
Cronkite - showed the "most trusted man in America" gravely shaking his head.
When Goldwater accepted the Republican nomination, Democratic California Gov.
Pat Brown said, "The stench of fascism is in the air."

About Ronald Reagan, Steven F. Hayward, author of "The Age Of Reagan" wrote:
"Liberals hated Reagan in the 1980s. Pure and simple. They used language that
would make the most fervid anti-Obama rhetoric of the Tea Party seem like, well,
a tea party. Democratic Rep. William Clay of Missouri charged that Reagan was
'trying to replace the Bill of Rights with fascist precepts lifted verbatim from
Mein Kampf.'"

After Republicans took control of the House in the mid-'90s, Rep. John Dingell,
D-Mich., compared the newly conservative-controlled House to "the Duma and the
Reichstag," referring to the legislature set up by Czar Nicholas II of Russia
and the parliament of the German Weimar Republic that brought Hitler to power.

About President George W. Bush, billionaire Democratic contributor George Soros
said, "(He displays the) supremacist ideology of Nazi Germany," and that his
administration used rhetoric that echoes his childhood in occupied Hungary.
"When I hear Bush say, 'You're either with us or against us,'" Soros said, "it
reminds me of the Germans." He also said: "The (George W.) Bush administration
and the Nazi and communist regimes all engaged in the politics of fear. ...
Indeed, the Bush administration has been able to improve on the techniques used
by the Nazi and communist propaganda machines."

Former Vice President Al Gore said: "(George W. Bush's) executive branch has
made it a practice to try and control and intimidate news organizations, from
PBS to CBS to Newsweek. ... And every day, they unleash squadrons of digital
brown shirts to harass and hector any journalist who is critical of the
president."

Actor/singer and activist Harry Belafonte, who marched with Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr., called Bush a racist. When asked whether the number and prominence of
blacks in the Bush administration perhaps suggested a lack of racism, Belafonte
said, "Hitler had a lot of Jews high up in the hierarchy of the Third Reich."

NAACP Chairman Julian Bond played the Nazi card several times. Speaking at
historically black Fayetteville State University in North Carolina in 2006, Bond
said, "The Republican Party would have the American flag and the swastika flying
side by side."

Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, who dared to rein in excessive public employee
compensation packages, received the full Nazi treatment. The hard-left blog
Libcom.org posted in 2011: "Scott Walker is a fascist, perhaps not in the
classical sense since he doesn't operate in the streets, but a fascist
nonetheless. ... He is a fascist, for his program takes immediate and direct aim
at (a sector of) the working class."

After the 2012 Republican National Convention, California Democratic Party
Chairman John Burton said, "(Republicans) lie, and they don't care if people
think they lie. As long as you lie, (Nazi propaganda minister) Joseph Goebbels -
the big lie - you keep repeating it."

The chairman of the South Carolina Democratic Party, Dick Harpootlian, in 2012,
compared the state's Republican governor to Hitler's mistress. When told that
the Republicans were holding a competing press conference at a NASCAR Hall of
Fame basement studio, Harpootlian told the South Carolina delegation: "(Gov.
Nikki Haley) was down in the bunker, a la Eva Braun."

If not the Nazi card, it's the race card or the sexist card or the homophobic
card. This "I'm right; you're evil" brand of politics has a lot to do with why
voters elected Donald Trump, rather than Hillary "basket of deplorables"
Clinton, to serve as our next president.

Larry Elder is a best-selling author and nationally syndicated radio talk-show
host. Thomas Sowell, whose column normally appears Mondays, is on vacation.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2016 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1141 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 21, 2016

Michael Barone: The Not-Yet-Emerging Democratic Majority

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARONE

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 825 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Baronephoto.jpg

What is to become of the Democratic Party? The world's oldest political party,
which traces its roots to 1792, is in as dire straits as it has ever been.

It has lost a presidential election most of its followers expected to win. It
failed to win a Senate majority, gaining just two seats in a year when it had
nearly a dozen plausible targets. Its minimal gain in the House leaves it with
just about as few House seats as it has controlled since the 1920s. It holds
only 18 governorships and fully controls, through governorships and legislative
majorities, only five state governments -- giant California, midsize Oregon and
small Hawaii, Delaware and Rhode Island. The total party strength index
calculated by Sean Trende and David Byler at RealClearPolitics has them at their
lowest point since 1930.

Its congressional leaders are able but getting on in years. House leaders Nancy
Pelosi and Steny Hoyer have held party or elective office since the 1970s and
interned in Sen. Daniel Brewster's office in the 1960s. Senate leader Chuck
Schumer was elected to the New York Assembly in 1974, when whip Dick Durbin was
already a congressional staffer.

The Democrats' plight is all the more poignant because up to election night,
many of them believed that the future would be forever theirs -- and with some
reason.

Ruy Teixeira and John Judis' 2002 book, "The Emerging Democratic Majority,"
pointed the way, predicting that blacks, Hispanics and single women would
produce increasing Democratic margins over time. National Journal's Ronald
Brownstein and Democratic pollster Stanley Greenberg, in his 2015 book, "America
Ascendant," thoughtfully elaborated on this theme.

But a vulgarized version of this idea got many Democrats -- apparently including
the high command of Hillary Clinton's campaign in Brooklyn, New York -- thinking
that an eternal Democratic majority would be a dead certainty. Between 9 and 10
o'clock Eastern time on election night, it became clear that this was, in the
title of Trende's shrewd analysis, "the god that failed."

Now it's beginning to seem possible that Barack Obama's two electoral majorities
were an exception to the rule. In 2008, when Republican foreign and domestic
policies seemed in ruins, Obama gave Americans the chance to do something many
had been longing to do for years: elect a black president, a landmark in our
history.

But the Obama coalition turned out to be too heavily clustered to be easily
replicated in an election decided by electoral votes and much too heavily
clustered to make the party competitive in congressional and legislative
elections conducted in equal-population districts.

Clinton's campaign blithely assumed that rallying "people of color" and
millennials would produce victory. They didn't figure that Midwestern
non-college-educated whites, who had long voted Democratic as a bloc, wouldn't
be dazzled by Lady Gaga concerts.

The Democrats' initial reflex seems to be to lurch further left. Schumer joined
Bernie Sanders in backing Rep. Keith Ellison as Democratic national chairman.
Ellison may be articulate and charming, but he's also a Muslim representing a
Minneapolis district that went 73% for Obama in 2012. Back in 2007, he said the
9/11 attacks were "almost like the Reichstag fire" in that they enabled a leader
to "have authority to do whatever he wanted." That sounds uncomfortably close to
9/11 trutherism and equating George W. Bush to Adolf Hitler.

It's not likely to win votes for Democrats in Wright County, 40 miles outside
Ellison's district, where Hubert Humphrey had a lakefront home and Donald Trump
beat Hillary Clinton 62-29%. A party with a leftist national chairman and
congressional leaders from Brooklyn and San Francisco is not ideally positioned
to appeal to voters where Clinton fell short.

Exit polls showing Republican improvement among blacks, Hispanics and Asians
suggest regression to the mean -- with people considered minorities behaving
more like the national average. The results also suggest that when you keep
telling white Americans that they soon will become a minority -- a message that
sometimes sounds like "hurry up and die" -- then many non-college-educated
"deplorables" may start acting like members of a self-conscious minority and
vote more cohesively against your side.

The election results certainly don't guarantee an eternal Trump Republican
majority. Trump's margin was thin, and it's reversible if events turn out badly
or policies fail. But the results also suggest that the arrival of a leftist
"ascendant" Democratic majority is not inevitable, either. The polarized
partisan patterns familiar for two decades have been shaken up this year -- and
not, so far, to Democrats' advantage.

     ·    Barone is a senior political analyst for the Washington Examiner,
          resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and longtime
          co-author of The Almanac of American Politics.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1142 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 21, 2016

Apple, FANGs Joining Trump Market Rally Full Speed

BYLINE: MICHAEL KREY

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 467 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/IT22-fang-112116-iStock.jpg

The biggest tech stocks, which initially fell after Donald Trump's surprise
election victory because the incoming president has criticized some of the
companies individually while championing nontech areas, are joining the rally.

Apple stock retook a 110.33 buy point in early trading in the stock market
today, as the stock neared its 50-day moving average line, another bullish sign.
Apple stock hit a two-month low of 104.28 on Nov. 14, and at that point was down
6.5% since the election. It's since rebounded.

The FANG stocks -- Facebook (FB), Amazon (AMZN), Netflix (NFLX) and Google owner
Alphabet (GOOGL), also were all up Monday afternoon. Facebook stock retook its
200-day moving average line for the first time since the election, while Netflix
and Alphabet got above their 10-day lines for the first time since then, and
Amazon had a second day above its 10-day line.

IBD'S TAKE: The IBD 50 ranks the very best-performing stocks over the past 12
months. The tech giants have made the list, but not currently. Quite a diverse
group of tech stocks do make the current rankings, though, which can give
investors clues on hot stocks and sectors.

Trump has criticized Apple over the encryption issue that pitted the company
against the FBI this year, and he also has said the company should move iPhone
manufacturing back to the U.S. Analysts say it would be unrealistic for Apple to
make iPhones in the U.S., but China media has reported that Apple is looking
into the idea of moving some of its manufacturing back to this country.

Trump's anti-immigration stance also is seen as a shot at big techs, which rely
on the H-1B visa program to bring skilled workers to the U.S. But other Trump
policies favor tech companies, including his hope to cut taxes on cash that U.S.
companies repatriate to the U.S. to 10% from 35%. Apple has by far the most cash
outside the U.S. and so could be the biggest beneficiary of such a move.

Apple CEO Tim Cook was a big supporter of Hillary Clinton, but most U.S. tech
companies and their CEOs were pro-Clinton in the divisive presidential race.

FANG stock Amazon.com also got specific Trump criticism during the campaign, for
its tax breaks, but Amazon -- as well as Apple and Facebook -- had been falling
in the week ahead of the election, all slipping below their 50-day averages
ahead of Election Day.

Apple stock rose 1.5% Monday to 111.75, while Facebook led the FANGs, rising
4.1%, its biggest up day in seven months. Netflix stock rose 2.4%. Amazon stock
rose 2.6% and it is closing in on its 50-day line. Alphabet stock rose 1.1%
Monday.

RELATED:

Sell-Off Of Big Tech Stocks A Buy Opportunity: Jefferies

Do Tech Stars Face Trump Bump

Apple iPhone Manufacturing In U.S. Called 'Unrealistic'

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1143 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 22, 2016

Dow Hits 19,000, But Stocks Pare Gains

BYLINE: SCOTT LEHTONEN

SECTION: STOCK MARKET TODAY

LENGTH: 530 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/SMT1015-112216-adobe.jpg

The major market averages hit record highs for a second straight session, led by
metal and mining stocks, but then pared gains.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 0.2%, topping 19,000 for the first time,
but is now up 0.1%.

The Nasdaq outperformed its counterparts and advanced 0.2%. The S&P 500 rose
less than 0.1%.

Metals And Miners Forge Ahead; Nucor, Freeport New Highs

Mining and metal stocks led the way in the stock market today.

Cliffs Natural Resources (CLF) and Vale (VALE) were leading the Mining-Metal
Ores industry group advancing nearly 8% and 6%, respectively. Cliffs is emerging
from a cup-with-handle base on the daily chart. The stock boasts a 99 RS Rating;
however, earnings growth is volatile. Analysts expect the company's fiscal 2016
earnings to grow 213%, but decline 34% in fiscal 2017.

Nucor and Freeport-McMoRan (FCX) were up 3.5% and more than 2%, respectively.
Steelmaker Nucor's uptrend continued after the surge from the U.S. presidential
election results. Freeport notched another new 52-week high today after trading
tightly after a breakout two weeks ago.

Earnings Reports: Palo Alto, Jack In The Box Fall; Dollar Tree Jumps

Earnings season continued to produce a mixture of results. Palo Alto Networks
(PANW) and Jack in the Box (JACK) are both trading lower in early morning trade
after reporting earnings late Monday.

Palo Alto, an option play on IBD Leaderboard, reported disappointing results
Monday, after the close. The company reported sales that fell short of analysts'
expectations and projected that decelerating sales growth would continue into
the current quarter. Shares tumbled 14%. Over the past two weeks, the stock has
had difficulty breaking out of a potential flat base.

Jack in the Box, an IBD 50 member, also failed to meet estimates on key
fundamental metrics. Despite topping the Q4 EPS estimate and increasing its
quarterly dividend, shares still fell 2% on weak same-stores sales figures at
company-owned locations. While analysts expected a 1.6% in same-stores sales,
Jack reported a 0.5% increase instead. The stock is still consolidating within
its flat base.

Despite missing its revenue estimates, Dollar Tree (DLTR) positively revised its
forward guidance sparking a buying wave. The stock is now up 10%. The stock has
retaken its 40-week moving average and is building the right side of a cup base.


Oil Volatile, Dollar Reverses Higher

Oil prices vacillated between gains and losses as headlines continued to fuel
volatility ahead of OPEC's meeting next week. OPEC officials were optimistic
that all countries would be in agreement to continue cutting production. The
dollar reversed earlier losses and was flat on the session.

October existing-home sales rose 2% to their highest level since February 2007,
the National Association of Realtors said. But higher mortgage rates in recent
weeks, especially after the presidential election, could chill future demand.

Related:

Palo Alto Networks Revenue, Billings Miss; Stock Falls Late

OPEC Cuts Set To Exempt Nigeria, Libya; Iraq Says It's 'Special'

Dollar Tree Sees Strong Holiday-Quarter Sales After Mixed Q3

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1144 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 22, 2016

Got Fake News? Biased Press Continues To Misinform Public About Trump

BYLINE: EDIT5

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 672 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/POLL-Trump-12-AP.jpg

Media Bias: When the Pew Research Center asked the public who conducted
themselves worst during the presidential campaign, the answer was .... the
press. But after promising to shape up after the election, the mainstream media
are already back to their old games.

The Pew survey found that 38% gave the press a failing grade for "the way they
conducted themselves in the campaign." By comparison, 35% gave Donald Trump a
failing grade, and 21% gave Clinton an F.

Just 22% said the press deserved an A or a B grade for their performance during
the election, compared with 30% for Trump and 43% for Clinton.

This is the worst rating the public has given the news media since Pew started
tracking this in 1988. Arguably, they deserved an even lower grade this year,
after being caught red-handed colluding with the Clinton campaign when not busy
inventing damaging stories about Trump. But that's beside the point.

In the immediate aftermath of Trump's victory, the press did a lot of public
hand-wringing about how badly they'd botched the election coverage and promised
to change their ways. So far, we're not seeing it.

Case in point is a New York Times article from last week claiming that
President-elect Trump's transition was in "a state of disarray." That set off a
spate of stories in other media outlets about how the transition was off to a
"rocky start," had "stalled," was in "turmoil," "scrambling," "causing real
panic," etc.

But just a week after getting elected, Trump named Sen. Jeff Sessions as his
attorney general, putting him ahead of most recent presidents on the transition
schedule. President Obama didn't name his first cabinet pick until three week's
after his 2008 victory. Reagan and Clinton didn't name anyone until week six.

Trump has since announced his picks for CIA director, chief of staff, national
security advisor and chief strategist.

So that "disarray" story? It looks like another bit of mainstream media fake
news.

The press hasn't done much better in covering Trump's picks. CNN reported that
Sessions was being "dogged by old allegations of racism." Others picked up on
this theme. The key words are "old" and "allegations." The claim dates back to
1986, when Democrats successfully sabotaged Sessions' appointment to be a
federal judge. But the allegations were flimsy and unproved.

When the Weekly Standard examined Sessions' actual record, it looked like
someone who's anything but racist. As a U.S. attorney, for example, he filed
several cases to desegregate schools in Alabama, and made sure a Ku Klux
Klansman he prosecuted got the death penalty.

Then there were those fake mainstream media stories about how Trump was going to
create a "Muslim registry." There is no truth to that.

And how about the media outcry after Trump dodged the press to have dinner with
his family? NBC News concluded that "the Trump administration is shaping up to
be the least accessible to the public and the press in modern history."

Apparently NBC News was asleep over the past eight years, when Obama was busy
investigating the press, stonewalling FOIA requests and denying press
photographers access to most events. Just a few months ago, the Washington Post
called the Obama administration "one of the most secretive" in history.

On Monday, Donald Trump invited top news media brass in for a meeting, and they
cluelessly thought they were getting a chance talk about insider access to his
administration. Instead, Trump gave them a much-deserved dressing down.

Trashing the media is supposed to be a big no-no for politicians, particularly
Republican politicians. But Trump has succeeded by defying conventional wisdom
ever since he threw his hat into the presidential ring. By refusing to kowtow to
a biased and corrupt press, maybe Trump can make journalism great again, too.

RELATED:

Media Malpractice? Media Bias And The 2016 Election

The Real Reason the Media Got This Election All Wrong

Media To Voters: Drop Dead, We're Getting Hillary Elected

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1145 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 23, 2016

Clinton Scandals: Let The Investigations Continue

BYLINE: EDIT2

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 666 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/EDIT_Clinton_112216_newscom.
jpg

Clinton Scandals: Donald Trump now says he won't pursue Hillary Clinton on
criminal charges for her email and Clinton Foundation scandals -- despite
pledging during the campaign to name a special prosecutor to investigate her
possible crimes and, if she were found guilty, to "lock up" the Democratic
nominee.

It's a smart move by the president-elect. In a sharply divided America, a
personal vendetta is no way to start a presidency.

During the second presidential debate in October, Trump was blunt about what he
intended to do: "If I win, I am going to instruct my attorney general to get a
special prosecutor to look into your situation because there has never been so
many lies, so much deception."

Now, he's having second thoughts. Just a week ago, he hinted on "60 Minutes"
that he wouldn't pursue an investigation: "I don't want to hurt them. They're
good people," he said of the Clintons.

He virtually repeated that Tuesday to the New York Times, saying, "I don't want
to hurt the Clintons, I really don't. She went through a lot and suffered
greatly in many different ways."

He also said a possible prosecution would be "very, very divisive for the
country."

Very statesmanlike and generous, though the media won't treat it that way.
Besides Trump, as Hillary Clinton's opponent in the last election, would be
unwise to spearhead an investigation of her. It's inappropriate for an elected
official to pursue charges against a vanquished political foe who is now a
private citizen, especially for what could be construed as political reasons.

Doing so would set a nasty precedent of victors in presidential elections
charging their political foes with crimes -- which is Banana Republic kind of
stuff, not worthy of a great republic such as our own, which has prided itself
on over 200 years of mostly smooth presidential transitions.

But that said, that doesn't mean we think Hillary and Bill Clinton should go
scot-free if crimes are found to have been committed. We have written
extensively about the possible criminality in both Hillary's email server
scandal and the Clinton Foundation's own scandal. There is ample evidence of
criminal wrongdoing in both.

Yet, while we agree Trump shouldn't himself do it, there are already
investigations ongoing -- and they definitely should not be halted.

The FBI and several U.S. Attorneys are looking into the possibility that former
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the Clinton Foundation engaged in a kind
of pay-for-play arrangement, in which those who gave money to the foundation got
access and favors from Hillary's State Department. If true, that's called graft,
and it's a felony.

So, yes, it would be unseemly and frankly foolish for Trump to enter office and
immediately focus on a criminal investigation when there's far more important
stuff on his agenda, ranging from tax and regulatory reform to the repeal of
ObamaCare and closing our porous borders. He'll have his hands full.

As we noted, there's already an ongoing investigation into the Clintons. It
began under President Obama, not Trump, and it should not be shut down. Just
because you run for president doesn't give you a get-out-of -jail free card.
Meanwhile, Congress has also pledged to look into the allegations against the
Clintons, which at minimum warrant a far deeper investigation, even if no
criminal charges are forthcoming. Those who sell access to the federal
government, no matter who they are, do not deserve clemency.

As of now, however, neither Bill nor Hillary Clinton has been charged with a
crime. They deserve, as all citizens do, the presumption of innocence. Still,
the investigations already underway should be allowed to take their course --
and when they're completed, let the chips fall where they may.

RELATED:

Hillary Clinton Email Scandal Explained

Clinton Foundation Scandal

Is The Clinton Foundation Doomed?

Email Scandals: Clinton Foundation's Ties To Terrorist Financers

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1146 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 23, 2016

Fed Officials Ready To Hike Soon, November Meeting Minutes Show

BYLINE: BLOOMBERG NEWS

SECTION: ECONOMY

LENGTH: 622 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/ECON03_fed_112316_adobe.jpg

Federal Reserve officials saw a strengthening case to raise interest rates as
the labor market tightened, with some saying a hike should happen in December,
according to minutes of their November gathering released Wednesday in
Washington.

"Some participants noted that recent committee communications were consistent
with an increase in the target range for the federal funds rate in the near term
or argued that to preserve credibility, such an increase should occur at the
next meeting," the record of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting showed.
Many officials said a rate rise could be appropriate "relatively soon," data
permitting, it said.

Fed officials will hold their final meeting of the year on Dec. 13-14.
Uncertainties surrounding what economic policies President-elect Donald Trump
will pursue haven't shaken expectations that officials will raise rates next
month for the first time in a year. Investors see a 100 percent probability of a
move, according to pricing in federal funds futures contracts.

The minutes showed diverse views on the amount of labor-market slack and the
risks surrounding their 2 percent inflation goal.

The November minutes also showed officials emphasized that near-term changes in
the benchmark borrowing cost would be dependent on economic data, with the
expectation that "only gradual increases" would be warranted. FOMC members noted
that labor market conditions had improved "appreciably."

"It was noted that allowing the unemployment rate to modestly undershoot its
longer-run normal level could foster the return of inflation to the FOMC's 2
percent objective over the medium term," the minutes said.

Stronger Economy

Since officials last met Nov. 1-2, the week before the U.S. presidential
election, they've seen strength in domestic consumption with retail sales in
September and October showing the biggest back-to-back gains since 2014, and new
records in stock indices, boosting household wealth. U.S. central bankers have
held the federal funds rate target range at 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent since
December. Two officials dissented earlier this month in favor of higher rates.

The unemployment rate last month stood at 4.9 percent, only slightly above Fed
officials' median estimate of full employment. Core inflation measures are just
below the Fed's 2 percent target. The personal consumption expenditures price
index, minus food and energy, rose 1.7 percent in the 12 months through
September.

'Good Progress'

At the same time, rates on a 30-year mortgage have jumped to 3.94 percent versus
3.54 percent at the start of the month, and the dollar is 4 percent stronger
against major currencies, according to the Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index, possibly
making U.S. exports less competitive.

Fed Chair Janet Yellen told the Joint Economic Committee of Congress on Nov. 17
that the economy "is making very good progress" toward the central bank's goals,
and "the judgment the committee reached in November still pertains."

At the November meeting, Fed officials discussed the longer-term operating
framework for monetary policy, concluding that the matter warranted further
discussion, the minutes showed.

"A number of policy makers stated that they continue to view expansion of the
balance sheet through large-scale asset purchases as an important tool to
provide macroeconomic stimulus" when interest rates are stuck at zero, the
minutes showed. "Most participants did not indicate support for using the
balance sheet as an active tool in other situations or for other purposes."

The minutes noted that Yellen said the Fed would "proceed cautiously" and
communicate in advance any changes to its operations.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1147 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 23, 2016

Clinton Foundation Scandal

BYLINE: EDIT5

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 341 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/SILO_foundation_092116_ap-1.
jpg

When Hillary Clinton agreed to be Secretary of State during President Obama's
first term, she promised her distance from the Clinton Foundation. The
foundation also agreed to limit foreign donations.

Both agreements were for good reasons. Foreign officials and governments were
big donors to the Clintons' family foundation, and there were concerns in the
Obama administration about conflicts of interest between the foundation and
Hillary Clinton's work at Secretary of State.

But over the past year, evidence has emerged that both Clinton and the
foundation failed to live up to those promises. Clinton and her top officials
continued to have a cozy relationship with the foundation throughout her tenure
at State, and evidence strongly suggest that Clinton was granting access and
favors to major Clinton Foundation donors.

In addition, the Clinton Foundation accepted millions of donations from foreign
governments while Hillary was at State, including one that violated an ethics
agreement it had with the Obama administration.

The story came to light after the release of a groundbreaking book by Peter
Schweizer -- called "Clinton Cash" -- which uncovered a serious of State
Department decisions that appeared to favor big Clinton Foundation donors.

Emails that emerged more recently made it clear that donors received special
access and attention from Clinton and her top aides. An AP story found that more
than half the private visitors Clinton received at State were donors to her
family foundation.

[ibd-display-posts title="Clinton Foundation Scandal: Latest Commentary"
title_link="http://www.investors.com/tag/clinton-foundation-scandal/"
posts_per_page="18" image_size="thumbnail" include_content="true"
content_length="30" category="" tag="171871" ]

RELATED:

Clinton Vs. Trump: IBD/TIPP Presidential Election Tracking Poll

What's The Latest News On The Hillary Clinton Email Scandal?

Election 2016 Coverage And Commentary

Read More IBD Editorials And Commentary

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1148 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 24, 2016

Larry Elder: Democrats Play The Shopworn Nazi Card

BYLINE: LARRY ELDER

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 884 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/larry-elder-1.jpg

Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn., the odds-on favorite to become the Democratic
National Committee's chairman, had a long association with the anti-Semitic
Nation of Islam. He compared then-President George W. Bush and 9/11 to Adolf
Hitler and the destruction of the Reichstag, the German parliament building:
"9/11 is the juggernaut in American history and it allows ... it's almost like,
you know, the Reichstag fire," Ellison said. "After the Reichstag was burned,
they blamed the Communists for it, and it put the leader of that country
(Hitler) in a position where he could basically have authority to do whatever he
wanted."

Comparing Republicans to Nazis has long been a national pastime of the
Democratic Party.

During the 1964 Goldwater/Johnson presidential race, Republican presidential
candidate Barry Goldwater accepted an invitation to visit an American military
installation located in Bavaria, Germany. On "CBS Evening News," hosted by
Walter Cronkite, correspondent Daniel Schorr said: "It is now clear that Sen.
Goldwater's interview with Der Spiegel, with its hard line appealing to
right-wing elements in Germany, was only the start of a move to link up with his
opposite numbers in Germany." The reaction shot -- when the cameras returned to
Cronkite -- showed the "most trusted man in America" gravely shaking his head.
When Goldwater accepted the Republican nomination, Democratic California Gov.
Pat Brown said, "The stench of fascism is in the air."

About Ronald Reagan, Steven F. Hayward, author of "The Age Of Reagan" wrote:
"Liberals hated Reagan in the 1980s. Pure and simple. They used language that
would make the most fervid anti-Obama rhetoric of the Tea Party seem like, well,
a tea party. Democratic Rep. William Clay of Missouri charged that Reagan was
'trying to replace the Bill of Rights with fascist precepts lifted verbatim from
Mein Kampf.'"

After Republicans took control of the House in the mid-90s, Rep. John Dingell,
D-Mich., compared the newly conservative-controlled House to "the Duma and the
Reichstag," referring to the legislature set up by Czar Nicholas II of Russia
and the parliament of the German Weimar Republic that brought Hitler to power.

About President George W. Bush, billionaire Democratic contributor George Soros
said, "(He displays the) supremacist ideology of Nazi Germany," and that his
administration used rhetoric that echoes his childhood in occupied Hungary.
"When I hear Bush say, 'You're either with us or against us,'" Soros said, "it
reminds me of the Germans." He also said: "The (George W.) Bush administration
and the Nazi and communist regimes all engaged in the politics of fear. ...
Indeed, the Bush administration has been able to improve on the techniques used
by the Nazi and communist propaganda machines."

Former Vice President Al Gore said: "(George W. Bush's) executive branch has
made it a practice to try and control and intimidate news organizations, from
PBS to CBS to Newsweek. ... And every day, they unleash squadrons of digital
brown shirts to harass and hector any journalist who is critical of the
President."

Actor/singer and activist Harry Belafonte, who marched with Dr. Martin Luther
King Jr., called Bush a racist. When asked whether the number and prominence of
blacks in the Bush administration perhaps suggested a lack of racism, Belafonte
said, "Hitler had a lot of Jews high up in the hierarchy of the Third Reich."

NAACP Chairman Julian Bond played the Nazi card several times. Speaking at
historically black Fayetteville State University in North Carolina in 2006, Bond
said, "The Republican Party would have the American flag and the swastika flying
side by side."

Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, who dared to rein in excessive public employee
compensation packages, received the full Nazi treatment. The hard-left blog
Libcom.org posted in 2011: "Scott Walker is a fascist, perhaps not in the
classical sense since he doesn't operate in the streets, but a fascist
nonetheless. ... He is a fascist, for his program takes immediate and direct aim
at (a sector of) the working class."

After the 2012 Republican National Convention, California Democratic Party
Chairman John Burton said, "(Republicans) lie, and they don't care if people
think they lie. As long as you lie, (Nazi propaganda minister) Joseph Goebbels
-- the big lie -- you keep repeating it."

The chairman of the South Carolina Democratic Party, Dick Harpootlian, in 2012,
compared the state's Republican governor to Hitler's mistress. When told that
the Republicans were holding a competing news conference at a Nascar Hall of
Fame basement studio, Harpootlian told the South Carolina delegation: "(Gov.
Nikki Haley) was down in the bunker, a la Eva Braun."

If not the Nazi card, it's the race card or the sexist card or the homophobic
card. This "I'm right; you're evil" brand of politics has a lot to do with why
voters elected Donald Trump, rather than Hillary "basket of deplorables"
Clinton, to serve as our next president.

     ·    Elder is a best-selling author and nationally syndicated radio
          talk-show host.




RELATED:

Why Hillary Clinton Lost: An Election Post-Mortem

Outside California, Clinton Is A Big-Time Popular Vote Loser

Left-Wing Bigotry And Hatred Is On Full Display After Trump Win

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1149 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 25, 2016

L. Brent Bozell: The Hilarious 'Hamilton' Hubbub

BYLINE: L. BRENT BOZELL And TIM GRAHAM

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 598 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Bozell_Brent-1.jpg

Vice President-elect Mike Pence was in New York during the transition, and he
took his family to Broadway to see "Hamilton," the hot hip-hop Founding Fathers
musical that people are overpaying to see. What resulted wasn't exactly
surprising -- rude and obnoxious, but not surprising.

Pence entered the Richard Rodgers Theatre to both cheers and boos, which is
unsurprising for national politicians at public events, especially sporting
events. But during the curtain call, Pence was singled out from the stage.

Actor Brandon Victor Dixon, who plays Vice President Aaron Burr, lectured the
vice president-elect, saying: "We, sir, we are the diverse America who are
alarmed and anxious that your new administration will not protect us -- our
planet, our children, our parents -- or defend us and uphold our inalienable
rights, sir. But we truly hope this show has inspired you to uphold our American
values and work on behalf of all of us."

Can anyone imagine Broadway actors singling out a Democrat after a show to
proclaim their alarm and anxiety over an election result? That's why you dismiss
the absurdity that this "diverse America" of hard-left theater people represents
anyone outside of the ZIP code in which they perform.

Then it came out that Dixon and other "Hamilton" stars haven't voted in years.
So much for the alarm and anxiety they've been feeling about the country. It's
yet another reason to reject the pleadings of the elites who cannot conduct even
the most basic exercise in the democratic process -- voting -- and yet demand
their voices be respected.

Pence knew going in that "Hamilton" has become some kind of a "Rocky Horror
Picture Show" crowd-participation event for Trump-hating liberals who cheer
wildly at the musical's lyrics that boast about how much immigrants can do.
Pence knew going in that the "Hamilton" folks hosted a fundraiser for Hillary
Clinton's presidential campaign in July -- touted by "news" media as a "boost of
Tony-winning star power" -- with ticket prices ranging from $2,700 to $100,000.

So who was reflecting a tolerance of diverse views, and who was ranting inside a
bubble?

The controversy took off when Donald Trump tweeted that Pence was "harassed" in
the lecture and deserves an apology. "Hamilton" fans insisted the lecture was
polite. It wasn't.

Then The New York Times lectured from a half-mile away that this protest speech
represented "American principles like free speech, respect and the ability to
challenge authority in the Trump era." Now that is just hilarious. Lecture or
heckle Pence, and you represent free speech. Lecture or heckle President Barack
Obama, and the Times insists you represent white people's rancid failure to
accept a black president.

It's going to be a long four (or eight) years of the usual arrogant liberal
mockery from the entertainment elite. On the American Music Awards, 21-year-old
supermodel Gigi Hadid was hailed by liberal media elites for a bad Melania Trump
impression in which she repeating the tired Michelle Obama-plagiarism joke.

Liberals couldn't imagine that a large chunk of red-state America is tired of
multimillionaire supermodels and Broadway starts telling them that they
represent the common people. Earth to the elites: You don't represent the common
people. The election was not just a dismissal of your candidate but a rejection
of your condescension.

     ·    Bozell is the president of the Media Research Center. Graham is
          director of media analysis at the Media Research Center and executive
          editor of the blog NewsBusters.org.


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1150 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 25, 2016

Is China Entering A Golden Age Of Education?

BYLINE: ELAINE LOW

SECTION: INDUSTRY SNAPSHOT

LENGTH: 1599 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/SNAPpic-112516-iStock.jpg

The fight to get accepted into college -- particularly a top-notch college -- is
fierce, to say the least. In the U.S., after-school shops like Sylvan, Kaplan
and The Princeton Review capitalize on families' desires for their children to
succeed, offering prep programs for Advanced Placement tests, SATs and then
some.

But helicopter parents around the world speak the same language. In China, the
preparatory education industry is in a "golden age," according to a recent
Deloitte report, with early childhood, K-12 and vocational education
cumulatively highlighted as the "major growth point in the future."

And the firm's deep-dive report, issued in May, projects the sector will expand
in China at a 12.7% compound annual growth rate to generate revenue of nearly
$440 billion in 2020.

Investors have not missed their cues. The largest among China's for-profit
education league, New Oriental Education & Technology (EDU), has seen its
American depositary receipts rise more than 64% since the start of the year. The
company booked nearly $1.5 billion in revenue last year, and that's expected to
grow 18% for the year ending in May.

TAL Education (XRS) reported $620 million in 2015 revenue, and that's projected
to soar 55% this year (ends in February) and an additional 40% in fiscal 2018.
TAL shares are up 67% since Dec. 31.

At $188 million in 2015 revenue, Tarena International (TEDU) is the smallest
among China's big-league school stocks traded in the U.S. Consensus views place
revenue growth at 26% this year, and the ADRs have climbed 62% year to date.

In a Nov. 9 research note following the U.S. presidential election, JPMorgan
analyst Leon Chik said that "we also believe that the education sector is the
most insulated from U.S. election-related risks. Education is a defensive sector
and is purely domestic (so no impact from any changes in U.S. trade policies)."

That action and sudden, recent gains from U.S. school plays including Capella
Education (CPLA) and Grand Canyon Education (LOPE) combined to drive IBD's
25-stock Consumer Services-Education group 30% higher since the start of
October. The advance sent the group to a powerful No. 6 ranking on Friday among
the197 industry groups tracked by IBD, up from a No. 32 rank four weeks earlier.

IBD'S TAKE: Research shows as much as 50% of the strength of a leading stock's
run derives from the position of its industry group and sector at the time of
the breakout. IBD's industry group rankings and SMART NYSE & Nasdaq Tables are
an easy way to monitor group and sector strength.

China's K-12 Market Getting "Bigger and Better"

Deloitte's study points to four major factors that have spurred China's
educational golden age. Those include favorable governmental policies,
technological innovation, a "rapid increase of social capital flowing into the
education industry" and noneducation industries investing in the sector.

A good portion of those education benefits go to Chinese students heading for
overseas schools. Deloitte said in a separate report that the number of outbound
international students from China rose to 520,000 in 2015, up from 280,000 just
five years earlier.

Of the publicly traded names, New Oriental, TAL Education and China Distance
Education Holdings Limited (CDEL) are generally regarded as key players in
China's after-school tutoring market, along with privately held Xueda Education.
(Xueda was taken private earlier this year.)

Most of these private education institutions -- over four in 10 -- are focused
in larger cities in the eastern part of the country, but working to extend their
reach.

New Oriental, which calls itself the biggest private-education provider in
China, offers classes for little ones as young as three years old, including
language, math, music and art. Enrollment in its Pop Kids program alone shot up
49% in its most recently reported quarter, with revenue rising 39% in U.S.
dollars during the August-ended period.

Total enrollment grew 31% to over 1.3 million students, though earnings growth
slowed sharply to 7% -- just meeting analyst expectations. The network operates
771 learning centers, up from 609 centers in 2011. It employs 19,700 teachers
across 56 cities, according to the company.

JP Morgan's Chik noted on Oct. 26 that summer promotions did not weigh on New
Oriental's results too heavily, but he prefers TAL Education "for its higher
focus on K-12 operations and faster sales and earnings growth."

JPMorgan rates New Oriental a neutral and TAL Education overweight.

TAL's enrollment figures are also climbing. Management said in its Q2 conference
call with analysts on Oct. 27 that enrollment growth of 77% enabled a 56% rise
in revenue during the period.  As of the August-ended quarter, it tended to over
1.1 million students.

Unlike New Oriental, TAL -- an acronym for "Tomorrow Advancing Life" --
concentrates exclusively on K-12 after-school tutoring. Its network spans 25
Chinese cities.

The K-12 market is "getting better and better," said TAL Chief Financial Officer
Rong Luo during the call with analysts, adding that the company is increasing
capacity, hiring more teachers and adding more cities to its roster. (As an
aside, TAL Education said its NYSE ticker symbol will shift to TAL from XRS as
of the start of December.)

Just as U.S. institutions Kaplan (owned by Graham Holdings (GHC)) and Princeton
Review (a subsidiary of IAC/Interactive (IAC)) offer adult education classes in
areas such as computer programming and finance, their China-based counterparts
offer courses for working adults, particularly online.

New Oriental has a segment catering to young professionals. Tarena International
focuses primarily on professional education services, with a specialty in
information technology. Tarena's model weaves together in-person and remote
online teaching.

Positive School Rule Changes

One regulatory change in China that is seen as benefiting after-school tutoring
providers: A revised law preventing for-profit private schools from
participating in the compulsory, nine-year early education system --
essentially, kindergarten through ninth grade. The policy goes into effect on
Sept. 1, 2017, according to Chinese news agency Xinhua.

The change sent a shudder through China's swelling network of private schools.
But Credit Suisse analysts called TAL and New Oriental "almost immune to the
revision," since their offerings are after-school, extracurricular and outside
compulsory system.

In addition, students attending private schools receive higher-quality
educations. That means that private school students do not usually need
after-school tutoring, said JPMorgan's Chik, and are not a significant portion
of New Oriental and TAL's student market.

"With less competition from private schools (and more students in regular public
school), the potential marketplace for tutorial operators should be larger," he
wrote on Nov. 9.

And as the industry consolidates, some experts point to TAL and New Oriental as
having good growth prospects.

"Big institutions like TAL and EDU will enjoy strong growth in the next three to
five years," Qingteng Education founders Cui Kai and Wang Chen told Credit
Suisse analysts Zoe Zhao and Evan Zhou, according to a Nov. 14 note from the
bank. "They will be even more powerful if their system can own students' data
throughout their learning curve, and customize their study plan accordingly."

As they expect big establishments to at some point collectively occupy 50% of
the market, Kai and Chen added that midsize institutions in smaller cities face
the most pressure, though small vendors with differentiating qualities "could
still survive."

U.S. Education Peers Spiking

Shares of New Oriental topped a 48.51 flat-base buy point on Oct. 24. They were
just above buy range this week, but have had trouble gaining altitude, although
the action fits largely in the stair-step style of the 13-month advance.

TAL put together a six-day advance through Wednesday, receiving some nice volume
support as it rebounds from support at its 50-day moving average. The stock is
just out of buy range on the rebound.

Tarena snapped out of a short consolidation to new highs on Tuesday. The pattern
was too short to be a base pattern, and the pullback was too deep to qualify as
a rebound from support, so the move did not provide a technical buying
opportunity.

Other players in IBD's Consumer Services-Education industry group include Nord
Anglia Education (NORD), an operator of international schools with 43 schools
around the world -- including China, Europe and North America -- with almost
37,000 full-time students.

The thinly traded stock was up 17% this year in the past week, and taking a
52-week high as it climbs up from an 18-month correction.

In the U.S., Grand Canyon and thinly traded Capella Education have posted the
largest recent gains and are up 42% and 85%, respectively, so far this year.
Most of those gains occurred over the past two months.

Bright Horizons (BFAM) is also a major player, with 940 company-operated child
care centers that have a capacity of 108,000 children and families, said the
company.

William Blair downgraded the stock to market perform from outperform at the
start of November, "based on our view that expectations for earnings growth and
upside are full at the current price." The company missed Street estimates on
both the top and bottom lines.

RELATED:

China's TAL Education Enters Profit-Taking Zone

New Oriental Breaks Out On Strong Revenue, Guidance

The Tough Go Shopping: China's Online Retail Shows Chart Strength



LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1151 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 25, 2016

Milton Friedman Can Help Trump Make America Grow Again

BYLINE: JON HARTLEY and GLENN HUBBARD

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 1113 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/GUEST_hubbard_112516_newscom
.jpg

This month marks 10 years since the death of Milton Friedman, the famous
free-market economist who became one of the 20th century's greatest economists.
Since his death, the world has witnessed the worst recession since the Great
Depression along with a massive expansion of federal regulations on commerce,
government spending and taxation under President Obama.

This period of time has also marked one of the weakest economic recoveries
measured by GDP growth, something Milton Friedman would argue is no coincidence.
Real GDP growth has stalled between 1% and 2% in recent years, below its
postwar, pre-crisis trend of 3%. Not to mention that wage growth among the
poorest Americans has remained stagnant and labor force participation remains
close to all-time lows among prime working age individuals.

As President-elect Trump and a stronger Republican majority will take office in
January, they are presented with a substantial opportunity to carry on Milton
Friedman's free-market, pro-growth legacy in designing what American economic
policy will look like over the coming years.

First, helping "the forgotten man and woman," a chief message in the 2016
Trump-Pence presidential campaign, can best be accomplished by promoting faster
economic growth. Doing so requires putting tax reform first, including expanding
the earned income tax credit and lowering the corporate tax rate.

Some unfounded ideas about economic policy arose during the recent election
cycle, such as doubting the net benefits of free trade and blaming the 2003 tax
cuts enacted under President George W. Bush for the 2008-2009 Great Recession.
We hope that as political rhetoric settles after the election, policymakers can
turn to the more rigorous data-driven policy analysis that was championed by
Friedman.

While we would discourage the use of tariffs or renegotiating trade agreements,
which could send consumer prices skyrocketing (and which would
disproportionately hurt the poorest Americans), there can and should be a role
for tax credits, wage subsidies and retraining programs targeted at those who
have had their jobs displaced by globalization or automation.

Milton Friedman was not opposed to ideas like wage subsidies, which resemble the
"negative income tax" he endorsed in his best-selling 1962 book "Capitalism and
Freedom."

An expansion of the earned-income tax credit (EITC), a form of wage subsidy,
could dramatically assist those who have taken low-paying jobs, after being
displaced by the phenomena of globalization and automation, in addition to
helping strengthen labor-force participation

Similarly, lowering the corporate tax rate from 35%, currently the highest rate
among OECD countries, is arguably the biggest economic policy opportunity to
foster job creation, particularly among low-wage workers. Such an action could
help stem the tide of tax inversions whereby companies reincorporate abroad
through acquisition --  taking jobs and tax dollars with them.

Furthermore, the gains from lowering tax rates for small businesses and
simplifying the regulatory costs of entrepreneurship could reinvigorate the
small business economy which comprises the largest number of American jobs.

Second, there is ample opportunity to spur labor market activity and efficiency
through reforming the regulatory state.

One instance is the ability to overhaul the new Obama mandatory overtime rules
that will raise the salary threshold from $23,600 to about $47,476 to qualify
for overtime pay, which, if still implemented, could have a distortionary impact
on businesses, incentivizing employers to reduce hours and reclassify salaried
workers to hourly workers.

Moreover, the Obama White House further estimates that 81.8% of workers affected
by expanding the mandatory overtime threshold to $47,476 would have some
college, a bachelor's degree or some advanced degree.

Such an initiative is welfare for wealthier educated individuals, who could
better be assisted through middle class individual tax relief which does not
interfere directly with businesses.

Reforming occupational licensing, a topic to which Milton Friedman dedicated an
entire chapter in "Capitalism and Freedom," could help improve the labor market
efficiency of thousands of jobs, from those spending unnecessary hours training
to be hair stylists to nurse practitioners who are outlawed from doing routine
low-risk procedures in primary care.

Easily the greatest example of relaxed occupational licensing laws is the growth
of Uber, Lyft and other ride-sharing companies, which have rapidly grown and
created thousands of jobs and billions in consumer surplus following the
relaxation of taxicab licensing laws.

Finally, a long-run pro-growth agenda could be fostered by the newfound ability
for Republican policymakers to temper government spending through reforming the
Affordable Care Act and other entitlement spending.

There are huge opportunities to restore fiscal balance by increasing the
retirement age, reducing Social Security benefit growth for nonpoor individuals,
transforming Medicare into premium support, and reducing the burden of the
health care law on businesses, such as relaxing the ObamaCare employer mandates
which encourage reductions in labor hours.

Education reform that improves the efficiency of our public investments in
education is another fix that could help promote long-run economic growth. The
idea that educational attainment could be improved through a voucher system was
championed by Friedman throughout his lifetime and has been embodied in the
continued work of the Friedman Foundation for Educational Choice, which Friedman
and his wife, Rose Friedman, co-founded in 1996.

Thanks to their work, voucher systems have successfully been implemented in
Florida, Mississippi and Tennessee, with strong positive results.

In the wake of the recession and the absence of Friedman's intellectual
presence, there have been several new trends in economic thinking that have
strayed from the rigorous level of policy that Friedman applied in analyzing the
economy and policy prescriptions.

We hope that President-elect Trump, his economic team and the Republican
Congress look to the ideas of Milton Friedman and his intellectual descendants
who have applied such rigor in their thinking. We believe that could very well
be the best path to "make America grow again" and promote inclusive economic
growth.

     ·    Hartley is an economics contributor for Forbes and a co-founder of
          Real Time Macroeconomics.
     ·    Hubbard, dean of Columbia Business School, was chairman of the Council
          of Economic Advisers under President George W. Bush.


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1152 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 29, 2016

Democrats Are Starting Down Their Own Populist Road

BYLINE: J.T. YOUNG

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 903 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/Guest-Young-112916-newscom.j
pg

Now it is Democrats' turn to face populism. November's presidential outcome
points Democrats down the populist path, just as 2012 did for Republicans.
However, Democrats' journey is potentially more politically perilous.

Just weeks ago, Democrats' establishment candidate proved unable to defeat an
opponent whom Democrats felt was fatally flawed. Hillary Clinton had the money,
organization and ardent support of a popular sitting president and mainstream
media ... and she still lost. The Democrat establishment that thrust her on a
relatively ambivalent party shares in her defeat. Now the Democratic populist
challenge has begun.

Four years ago, Republicans encountered the same thing. The Republican
establishment's candidate was unable to exploit sizable opportunities to defeat
a weakened Obama. Four years later, the Republican establishment collectively
finished third in the nomination contest that populist Donald Trump won handily.

Democrats confidently thought they had avoided Republicans' revolution. They saw
the Republican Party irreparably fracturing. Meanwhile, Obama had scratched
their populist itch in 2008 by upsetting their establishment's favorite, Hillary
Clinton.

Obama had proved a fortuitous detour for Democrats too. The first Democrat to
twice win the presidency with popular vote majorities since FDR, Obama appealed
particularly to their liberal wing. He also had created a powerful political
organization and made peace with the Democratic establishment by ordaining
Clinton his successor.

Obama's support, and that of Democrats' superdelegates, guaranteed that the
populist Sanders could not win. Safely united behind Clinton, Democrats would
win easily -- perhaps overwhelmingly -- their establishment would return to
power, and the party could enjoy watching Republicans turn themselves into a
permanent minority. Or so Democrats thought.

When Clinton was stunningly upset, the Democratic establishment crashed too. Now
the populist road runs to Democrats' doorstep after all. And there are
compelling reasons for taking it -- just as there were for the Republicans
following 2012.

For one, it is already strong among Democrats. Sen. Sanders proved that,
frequently winning and consistently pulling 40%-plus of the votes throughout the
primaries.

For another, it works. What Sanders proved in the primaries, president-elect
Trump did to even greater effect in November.

Another reason for Democrats' populist potential is the weakened Democratic
establishment that it would face. Simply, their bench is weak. Hillary Clinton
was their consensus candidate because they had few from whom to choose.

While populism will not have problems winning over Democrats, Democrats may have
considerable ones winning with their brand of populism.

By its nature, populism is a divisive exercise. This fractious experience is
trying under any circumstances, but for the Democrats it would be particularly
challenging in the next four years.

As Republicans demonstrated, infighting does not wait for presidential
elections. It begins immediately in Congress, where Democrats are particularly
vulnerable.

In the Senate, they will defend a disproportionate number of seats in 2018 --
just as Republicans did this year. The Democrats' problem is even larger:
Republicans defended 24 seats in 2016, vs. 10 for Democrats. Democrats will
defend 25 to Republicans' 8 in 2018. So many vulnerable members will make unity
difficult, especially with additional populist pressure.

In the House, Democrats also remain a minority -- unlike Republicans who
controlled that body following Obama's first midterm. While the Senate offers
the minority ample opportunity for expressing their own positions and exerting
some control over the agenda, in the House the majority rules. Being the
minority there means taking the agenda that the majority puts before you. Again,
that is a difficult position for Democrats who are simultaneously seeking to
deal with an internal populist challenge.

Most serious of all, Democrats' brand of populism is likely to pull them away
from America's political center of gravity.

The establishment of both parties by necessity resides as close as possible to
the political center, where America's presidential elections are decided. Since
populism is an uprising against the establishment, each party's version pulls it
toward its prevailing ideological pole.

Republicans' version worked because it pulled toward the right and America
remains a center-right country. According to CNN exit polling, conservative
voters outnumbered liberals by 35% to 26% (with moderates making up 39%). Trump
won by holding 90% of Republicans and beating Clinton 48% to 42% among
independents.

Democrats' version of populism, as Sanders showed, will pull to the left -- away
from America's political center of gravity. It would reinforce the dynamic that
just cost Clinton the election.

Establishment Democrats who thought their party had escaped populism are likely
to be proved wrong over the next four years, and to be proved even more so if
they imagine their trip down the populist path will go as well as the
Republicans'. If anything, their party's dynamics stands to make it even worse.

     ·    Young served in the Treasury Department and the Office of Management
          and Budget from 2001 to 2004 and as a Congressional staff member from
          1987 to 2000.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1153 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                               November 30, 2016

Midcap And Small-Cap Stock Bets Pay Off For NorthCoast ETF Retirement Portfolios

BYLINE: BILLY FISHER

SECTION: ETFS

LENGTH: 565 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/NORcoast_trump_113016_newsco
m.jpg

NorthCoast Asset Management saw major equity holdings in its ETF retirement
holdings surge on the heels of the U.S. presidential election.

The firm had built midcap and small-cap positions in recent months, which paid
off in a big way. Investor optimism for future U.S. economic growth and higher
inflation weighed on fixed-income holdings in November. Here are highlights from
the portfolios for the month:

Postelection Rally

NorthCoast held significant positions in iShares Core S&P Mid-Cap ETF (IJH) and
iShares Core S&P Small-Cap ETF (IJR) heading into November. Both holdings spiked
following the election. "Republican control of the White House and Congress will
increase chances of reverting to previous years of less regulation," said
Patrick Jamin, chief investment officer for NorthCoast. "There are also
expectations for looser fiscal policies and increased infrastructure spending."

Shares of IJH and IJR rallied 9% and 14% in November and are up 19% and 23% for
the year to date.

Jamin says having low international exposure could favor midcap and small-cap
companies. "It is uncertain whether the new administration will pursue more
restrictive international trade policies," he said. "Since midcaps and small
caps are less reliant on international trade, the uncertainty has had less of an
impact on IJH and IJR."

NorthCoast saw its iShares Core S&P 500 ETF (IVV) positions hit new highs in
November. The firm is weighing mixed signals going forward. "Overall, our model
is telling us to be heavily invested in IVV," Jamin said. "We are seeing bullish
macro, technical and sentiment indicators, but bearish valuation indicators."

IVV climbed 4% during the month and is up 10% year to date.

Jamin and his team are closely monitoring how policy development of the Trump
administration could impact U.S. companies. "The new president-elect hasn't
really been that explicit about the economic measures he is going to try to
implement," he said. "There has been a strong anti-immigration stance, which
could be a problem for technology companies which have attracted a lot of
talented foreign workers."

Fixed-Income Headwinds

Fixed-income ETFs have not experienced the same enthusiasm as equity ETFs since
the election. In November, iShares 10+ Year Credit Bond ETF (CLY) gave back some
of its outsized gains from earlier in the year. "It has pulled back less than
other bonds of similar duration," Jamin said. "Since the decline, it is yielding
4.4%, which is a very attractive yield."

Shares of CLY fell 5.4% in November, but are up 4.4% for the year.

NorthCoast remains overweight CLY, but has lightened up its stake. "Valuation
indicators from our models have been strong, but sentiment indicators have
turned negative," Jamin said. "This has led us to trim our position slightly."

Jamin is sticking to NorthCoast's position in iShares J.P. Morgan USD Emerging
Markets Bond ETF (EMB) for the time being. The holding also encountered
resistance in November. "We are currently overweight EMB because there is a very
strong yield of about 5%," he said. "Potential appreciation of the U.S. dollar
from higher interest rates could negatively impact EMB, which is denominated in
local currency, so that is a risk we are looking at."

RELATED:

NorthCoast ETF Retirement Portfolios Focus On Earnings And Interest Rates



LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1154 of 1299 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                                December 2, 2016

Vox Populi: Italy's Constitution Heads For The Polls

BYLINE: ALAN R. ELLIOTT

SECTION: GLOBAL LEADERS

LENGTH: 515 words


http://www.investors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/GLOBAL_milan_120116_istock.j
pg

While U.S. news consumers eat up the endless banquet of tweets served by the
incoming Trump administration, Europe nervously awaits a Sunday referendum that
could remake Italy's system of government.

The vote will determine whether Italy maintains a bicameral government, or
alters its constitution to strip power from its Senate. The result would allow
Prime Minister Matteo Renzi and the country's lower house of government to ram
through reforms seen as necessary to keeping the country's financial system
solvent. Renzi has said he would step down if voters reject the reforms.

It is considered by many analysts to be the third and possibly most vital
nationalist vote of the year, following the U.K.'s Brexit referendum and the
U.S. presidential election.

The outcome, either yea or nay, is likely to stir market action across Europe,
and potentially much further, on Monday. If voters reject the reforms, analysts
expect an international response potentially heavier than that seen after the
U.K.'s June 23 Brexit vote, which sent global markets into a two-day sell-off.

IBD'S TAKE: The M in the CAN SLIM trading strategy reminds investors to always
be aware of the market's behavior. It is a task that often requires being alert
to key political and economic events on international markets.

A "yes" vote would leave Renzi in office and empower his government to enact
financial reforms, with possible elections occurring later in the year. It would
free the European Central Bank to begin trimming its $85 billion per month in
bond purchases. The ECB meets on Thursday to determine whether to continue the
initiative beyond its slated March termination.

A "no" vote in Italy -- which many believe is the most likely outcome going into
the weekend -- would probably mean Renzi's resignation and a period of political
instability as the country decides when to hold elections. The referendum has
largely become a vote for or against Renzi, who many see as attempting to impose
harsh austerity policies to please EU lenders.

Those lenders have helped prop up Italy's banks, which Reuters reported are
holding $377 billion in bad loans, and are the weak link in Italy's
deteriorating chain of events.

Investors have reportedly stacked up short bets against the banks, assuming the
worst in the case of a "no" vote. Reuters on Thursday quoted the chief executive
of Milan's Borsa Italiana, Raffaele Jerusalmi, saying "There are colossal short
positions on Italy from the U.S. and other countries where big investors are
based."

Projections on the potential impact of a "no" vote on Sunday start with a
serious weakening of Italy's banking sector. Worst-case scenarios forecast bank
failures and bond, currency and stock market reactions that could open a new
phase of the eurozone's economic crisis.

Italy's FTSE-MIB index rose 3.5% this week through Thursday, but is down more
than 25% so far this year.

RELATED:

Despite Market Turmoil, Britain Was Right To Brexit

Brexit Fears Weren't Overblown -- They Were Flat Out Wrong



LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1155 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

DOLLAR PARITY IS IN SIGHT FOR EURO

BYLINE: MIKE BIRD, IRA IOSEBASHVILI

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 42 words

ABSTRACT

Euro's 10-day losing streak against US dollar again raises debate about whether
and when it could reach parity with dollar, particularly in light of outcome of
US presidential election and possibility that Fed will raise interest rates;
graph (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphs and Charts

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1156 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

NURSE PLANS FOR A LIFE OUTSIDE US

BYLINE: MIRIAM JORDAN

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 45 words

ABSTRACT

Many people such as South Korean nurse Eli Oh who were brought to US illegally
as children saw prospects open for them under Pres Obama's presidential
directive, only to fear for their future under Pres-elect Donald Trump;  Oh says
he may go to Canada if deported (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1157 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

THE ELECTION'S MESSAGE FOR THE DEMOCRATS

BYLINE: GERALD SEIB

SECTION: R; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 39 words

ABSTRACT

Gerald Seib article in Journal Report: CEO Council column offers interview with
Sen Elizabeth Warren, who discusses her views on what happens to Democratic
party in wake of Pres-elect Donald Trump's election victory; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1158 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

UNIONS SEE NEVADA AS A BRIGHT SPOT

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA BERZON

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 41 words

ABSTRACT

Nevada has become bright spot for unions after Unite Here's Culinary Workers
Union helped Democrats flip two House seats, win close Senate race and gain
control of state government, in large part because of its efforts on ground;
photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1159 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

MIDWEST UNION VOTE WAS TILTED MORE TOWARD THE GOP

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA BERZON

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 44 words

ABSTRACT

Union households in some of Midwest made up just over 20% of electorate but 54%
of them backed Pres-elect Donald Trump during election campaign, compared with
just 37% for Republican nominee Mitt Romney in 2012;  union support for Trump
nationwide was 43% (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1160 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

HOPE FOR CHANGE: REBIRTH OF CLINTON-FREE DEMOCRATS?

BYLINE: FIAMMA TRUUVERT

SECTION: A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 19 words

ABSTRACT

Fiamma Truuvert letter responds to William McGurn's Nov 15 Main Street column on
Democrats' election collapse

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1161 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

HOPE FOR CHANGE: REBIRTH OF CLINTON-FREE DEMOCRATS?

BYLINE: WALTER S WEINSTEIN

SECTION: A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 20 words

ABSTRACT

Walter S Weinstein letter responds to William McGurn's Nov 15 Main Street column
on Democrats' election collapse

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1162 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

TRUMP PULLS BACK ON CALL FOR CLINTON INVESTIGATION

BYLINE: DAMIAN PALETTA, BYRON TAU

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 58 words

ABSTRACT

Pres-elect Donald Trump says does not 'feel very strongly' about further
investigation of his former Democratic rival Hillary Clinton over her use of
private email server during her tenure as secretary of state or work of Clinton
Foundation, backing away from election campaign pledge to appoint prosecutor to
investigate Clinton; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1163 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

DEMOCRACY'S VERDICT ON CLINTON

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 43 words

ABSTRACT

Editorial contends Pres-elect Donald Trump is making right decision in not
pursuing his former Democratic rival Hillary Clinton over her ethical issues,
arguing that voters rendered their own verdict when they rejected her in Nov 8
presidential election

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1164 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

DEMOCRATS ARE OBSESSED WITH RACE. TRUMP ISN'T

BYLINE: JASON L RILEY

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 41 words

ABSTRACT

Jason L Riley Upward Mobility column contends Pres-elect Donald Trump won
election by turning voters who had supported Pres Obama, not by fake news
stories, voter suppression or bigotry; contends that race is Democrats'
organizing principle

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1165 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

MEMOIRS BY KELLY, SANDERS SELL BRISKLY

BYLINE: JEFFREY A TRACHTENBERG

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 40 words

ABSTRACT

Fox News star Megyn Kelly's memoir, Settle for More, sold 64,000 copies in its
first six days on shelves, while former Democratic presidential candidate Sen
Bernie Sanders's Our Revolution: A Future to Believe In, sold 45,000 copies (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1166 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

US WATCH

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 27 words

ABSTRACT

Pres Obama in his Thanksgiving message says America has emerged from divisive
campaign season but holiday should remind Americans that they are one people (S)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1167 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

NRA PREPARES GUN-FRIENDLY AGENDA

BYLINE: MICHELLE HACKMAN

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 49 words

ABSTRACT

NRA spent big to help Pres-elect Donald Trump win election; plans to build on
momentum of Republicans' election victories, starting with focus on Trump's
Supreme Court appointment and push for law that requires all states to recognize
concealed-carry permit granted by one; graph; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Combination

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1168 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

DEMOCRATS TRY TO REGROUP AFTER LOSS

BYLINE: JANET HOOK

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 32 words

ABSTRACT

Democrats are divided among competing power centers since their heavy election
losses, hindering efforts to regroup and plot new strategy as Republicans did
after their 2012 loss; photo (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1169 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

TRUMP WIN WAS AN OWN-GOAL FOR DEMOCRATS

BYLINE: D L CUDDY

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 19 words

ABSTRACT

D L Cuddy letter responds to Arthur C Brooke's Nov 10 commentary on Pres-elect
Donald Trump's election victory

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1170 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

HOW DEMOCRATS CAN WIN AGAIN

BYLINE: TED VAN DYK

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 41 words

ABSTRACT

Ted Van Dyk commentary contends Democrats lost elections because of concerns
about security and economic wellbeing;  lays out steps for Democrats to take in
recovering, including showing willingness to address country's big problems;
photo

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1171 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

WHERE REPUBLICANS GO FROM HERE

BYLINE: JEB BUSH

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 46 words

ABSTRACT

Jeb Bush commentary urges Republicans to remember that past election turned on
votes against establishment, changing culture and other issues more than votes
for something; contends Republicans must deliver on state and federal levels and
restore US leadership in world

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1172 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

HOW TWO PARTIES CHANGED IN 2016

BYLINE: AARON ZITNER

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 41 words

ABSTRACT

Aaron Zitner US News article discusses how Democratic and Republican Party
demographics changed in 2016 election, with women making up a greater proportion
of Democratic voters and men making up larger share of Republican voters; graph
(M)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphs and Charts

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1173 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

TRUMP ALLEGES THAT 'MILLIONS OF PEOPLE' VOTED ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: BYRON TAU, BRODY MULLINS

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 45 words

ABSTRACT

Pres-elect Donald Trump lashes out at critics who say his Democratic rival
Hillary Clinton won popular vote, saying he would have won that except for
illegal voters; three swing states where Trump won are reviewing numbers amid
allegations of fraud to his benefit (M)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1174 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

THE RECOUNT HAIL MARY

SECTION: A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 38 words

ABSTRACT

Editorial on Democrat's desperate attempt at recount after Hillary Clinton's
election loss to Pres-elect Donald Trump, despite lack of evidence of any
Russian rigging;  urges Democrats to accept that Trump won fair and square

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1175 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

DEMOCRATS FACE A CHILLY WINTER OF DISCONTENT

BYLINE: ED GRYSAVAGE

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 20 words

ABSTRACT

Ed Grysavage letter responds to Nov 19 page-one article on Democratic efforts to
regroup after their election losses

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1176 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

DEMOCRATS FACE A CHILLY WINTER OF DISCONTENT

BYLINE: SHERRIE MENGHINI

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 21 words

ABSTRACT

Sherrie Menghini letter responds to Nov 19 Page One article on Democratic
efforts to regroup after their election losses

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1177 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

DEMOCRATS FACE A CHILLY WINTER OF DISCONTENT

BYLINE: ALLEN QUENICHET

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 21 words

ABSTRACT

Allen Quenichet letter responds to Nov 19 Page One article on Democratic efforts
to regroup after their election losses

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1178 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

NAME CALLING AND IDENTITY POLITICS HAVE THEIR LIMITS

BYLINE: DAVID P CARTER

SECTION: A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 31 words

ABSTRACT

David P Carter letter responds to Jason L Riley's Nov 23 Upward Mobility column
contending Pres-elect Donald Trump won election by winning over voters who had
supported Pres Obama

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1179 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

NAME CALLING AND IDENTITY POLITICS HAVE THEIR LIMITS

BYLINE: ELISE MATICH

SECTION: A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 30 words

ABSTRACT

Elise Matich letter responds to Jason L Riley's Nov 23 Upward Mobility column
contending Pres-elect Donald Trump won election by winning over voters who had
supported Pres Obama

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1180 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

DO ILLEGAL VOTES DECIDE ELECTIONS?

BYLINE: HANS VON SPAKOVSKY, JOHN FUND

SECTION: A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 38 words

ABSTRACT

Hans von Spakovsky and John Fund commentary suggests real possibility that
significant numbers of people did vote illegally in elections, noting Obama
Justice Dept's refusal to act on issue and reports of noncitizens voting

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1181 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

GUN-SALE CHECKS SETTING RECORD PACE

BYLINE: DOUG CAMERON

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 40 words

ABSTRACT

FBI reports background checks for gun purchases rose adjusted 16% to record 2.56
million in November from year-earlier 2.24 million;  sales continued to rise
despite Republican election victories easing concerns about new controls (M)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1182 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                         Wall Street Journal Abstracts

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

TRUMP, CLINTON TEAMS TRADE BARBS ON ELECTION

BYLINE: AARON ZITNER

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 42 words

ABSTRACT

Members of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's campaign team
accuse rival Pres-elect Donald Trump's team of running campaign that gave
platform to white supremacists;  Trump's team says they won by focus on security
and prosperity (M)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company: Abstracts
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1183 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 466 words

ABSTRACT

-

FULL TEXT


TRANSITION

Sources cite potential national security picks

Two new names have emerged as possible candidates for Department of Homeland
Security secretary under President-elect Donald Trump, people familiar with the
selection process said Monday.

Marine Gen. John F. Kelly, who retired this year as chief of U.S. Southern
Command, is under consideration for the critical post, the people said. Kelly, a
widely respected military officer who served for more than 40 years, opposed the
administration's failed plans to close Guantanamo and has strongly defended how
the military treats detainees. He also publicly expressed concerns over the
Pentagon's order in December that for the first time opened all jobs in combat
units to women, including the most elite forces such as the Navy SEALs.

Also under consideration is Frances Townsend, a top homeland security and
counter-terrorism official in the George W. Bush administration, they said.
Townsend also held senior positions during 13 years at the Justice Department.

CABINET

Perry status unclear after visit with Trump

Rick Perry's tango with the Trump administration is lasting longer than his
appearance on "Dancing with the Stars."

The former two-time presidential candidate and Texas governor met with
President-elect Donald Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence at the Trump
Tower on Monday, but he still hasn't been offered a Cabinet position.

Perry did not address reporters after arriving at Trump Tower just after 11 a.m.
local time or after departing at 12:30 p.m. He is reportedly under consideration
for Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of Agriculture and Secretary of Energy, the
latter a position he once wanted to disband while running for president.

ENERGY

EPA chief: Shift from fossil fuels to endure

The head of the Environmental Protection Agency on Monday gave an impassioned
defense of the Obama administration's energy and environmental policies and
insisted the nation's shift from fossil fuels will continue no matter who
occupies the White House.

"The inevitability of our clean energy future is bigger than any one person or
one nation," Administrator Gina McCarthy said in a speech at the National Press
Club that was twice interrupted by protesters. "We don't have to choose between
economy or environment. We can and we must choose both."

McCarthy mostly deflected specific questions about worries over President-elect
Donald Trump, who has been a blistering critic of the EPA. Trump has vowed to
scrap what he sees as onerous regulations the agency has put in place in recent
years. He also has vowed to end the "war on coal," expand oil and gas leasing
across federal lands and waters, and "cancel" U.S. participation in an
international climate agreement aimed at reducing carbon emissions.

- IJ news services

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1184 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Black Friday looks like boon for retailers;
Positive economic signs say consumers ready to spend

BYLINE: Lindsey Rupp and Sarah Very; Bloomberg

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 851 words

ABSTRACT

BLACKFRIDAY

FULL TEXT

Now that Election Tuesday is over, retailers are counting on Americans turning
their attention to Black Friday.

The National Retail Federation projects that about 137.4 million consumers will
make purchases in stores or online over the four-day weekend that started on
Thanksgiving, marking the kickoff to the holiday shopping season. The amount
Americans have spent has declined in the last three years, slipping 26 percent
from 2013 to an average of $299.60 per person last year, according to the trade
group.

By most accounts, this holiday season is expected be a boon for retailers.
Unemployment, gasoline prices and inflation are low, while wages, home

values and the stock market continue to rise. Shoppers have the wherewithal to
spend, and now retailers are hoping the holiday season will give them a reason
to. Companies such as Kohl's Corp., Gap Inc. and Barnes & Noble Inc. have said
the U.S. presidential election was a major cause of consumers' recent reluctance
to open their wallets. With the outcome settled, they're expecting the dollars
to finally flow.

"We've had some, we believe, pent-up demand - just based on the economics of our
consumer," J.C. Penney Co. Chief Executive Officer Marvin Ellison said in an
interview this month. "We're anticipating we'll see pent-up demand released, and
it being post-election will only help that."

U.S. retail spending is expected to rise 3.6 percent to $655.8 billion in
November and December, the Washington-based NRF estimates. Retailers are poised
to take full advantage of the Thanksgiving holiday period, now known by some as
Black Week, which accounts for about 15 percent of holiday spending, according
to the trade group.

J.C. Penney opened its doors at 3 p.m. on Thursday to reach shoppers before they
tucked into their Thanksgiving feasts. EBay Inc. tried to push the selling even
earlier: It rebranded the day before Thanksgiving as Mobile Wednesday, using
discounts to target traveling Americans. The sales will stretch through the
weekend, with online and brick-and-mortar companies offering deals for Cyber
Monday.

Investors hopeful

Investors are confident that the retail industry will see strong sales. The
Standard & Poor's 500 Retail Index has risen 4.9 percent so far in November and
is on pace for its best monthly return since July. Retail stocks have outpaced
the broader market since the U.S. presidential election, with the index up 4.7
percent since Nov. 8, compared with the broader S&P 500's 3 percent rally.
Historical studies indicate that elections affect the timing of retail sales
rather than the overall volume, said Jerry Storch, CEO of Saks Fifth Avenue
owner Hudson's Bay Co.

"Hopefully, when we get to Black Friday, which really tolls the bell of holiday
shopping, then the consumer will start looking forward to Christmas," Storch
said.

That would be a welcome development for merchants that have yet to see a sales
bump materialize. Dollar sales in the second week of November were 8 percent
lower than in the same period a year earlier, according to research firm NPD
Group. The decline was broad-based, too, with drops in apparel, toys,
technology, athletic footwear and perfumes, the firm said.

For shoppers who are ready to spend, they have more ways than ever to do so,
with retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. offering
exclusive deals to customers who download their mobile applications. Non-store
sales may increase 7 percent to 10 percent this year, reaching as much as $117
billion, according to the NRF. Online sales account for the bulk of this
measure, the group said.

"If Amazon had everything, like everything you need in the world, I would buy
everything from there," said Oscar Viral, a 58-year-old chef in New York. "I
wanted something from Macy's, and I got on the internet because they didn't have
it available in the store."

Seeking bargains

With shoppers able to go online any time for deals, some malls bucked the trend
of opening earlier on the Thanksgiving holiday and staying closed that day. The
country's largest shopping mall, the Mall of America in Minneapolis, will remain
closed, reopening at 5 a.m. on Friday. But the 520 stores inside have the option
to open on Thursday. CBL & Associates, a developer, said it would keep 72 of its
malls closed that day, as well.

Still, the largest mall operators, Simon Property Group Inc. and General Growth
Properties Inc. didn't make  plans to close on Thanksgiving, nor did major
department-store anchors that typically drive early traffic.

No matter when they shop, customers will be hunting for bargains. While a survey
of about 1,000 U.S. consumers by AlixPartners indicated that 83 percent of
shoppers expect to spend about the same or more this holiday season, mobile
phones are making price comparisons simpler than ever.

"We like to scope it out in person, then we go online," said Natalie Kelly, a
hospitality worker in Florida who was shopping at a mall in Manhattan earlier
this week. "To get me to go into the department store, things would have to be
discounted more than they are online."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1185 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 427 words

ABSTRACT

-

FULL TEXT


SOUTH CAROLINA

Man ruled competent in church slaying case

A federal judge ruled Friday ruled that Dylann Roof, the 22-year-old accused of
killing nine parishioners in a Charleston, South Carolina, church last year, is
competent to stand trial. Jury selection will resume in the case on Monday.

Roof is charged with federal hate crimes in connection with the June 2015
shooting at the Emanuel AME Church. Prosecutors have alleged he carefully
planned the attack, which was motivated by his animosity toward African
Americans.

WISCONSIN

Green Party leader hits recount deadline

An election recount will take place soon in Wisconsin, after former Green Party
presidential candidate Jill Stein filed a petition Friday with the state's
Elections Commission, the first of three states where she has promised to
contest the election result.

The move from Stein, who raised millions since her Wednesday announcement that
she would seek recounts of Donald Trump's apparent election victories in
Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan, came just 90 minutes before Wisconsin's 5
p.m. Friday deadline.

Had Hillary Clinton won those three states, she would have secured enough votes
in the Electoral College to win the election.

Wisconsin has until Dec. 13 to complete the recount. Trump secured 1,404,000
votes in Wisconsin; Clinton, 1,381,823; Stein, 31,006.

ARIZONA

Grandmother honors accidental invitation

An Arizona woman who accidentally texted a stranger an invitation to
Thanksgiving dinner has made good on her offer after it spread through social
media.

The mix-up happened after Wanda Dench included what she thought was her
grandson's number on a group text last week, but he had changed his number and
never told her, the Arizona Republic reported.

Instead, the text went to 17-year-old Jamal Hinton. They realized the mistake
after the two exchanged pictures, but Hinton asked if he could "still get a
plate." Dench responded, "Of course you can. That's what grandmas do."

The exchange gained attention after Hinton posted it on Twitter.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Panda cub recovering from intestine surgery

The Panda cub Bei Bei is recuperating from emergency surgery at the Smithsonian
National Zoo to alleviate a life-endangering blockage of his intestine.

A spokeswoman said the 1-year-old cub is conscious and recovering at the zoo's
panda facility after the Friday morning surgery. The blockage, which is a rare
ailment for Giant Pandas, was a dense mass of partially-digested bamboo about
the size of a lemon located at the top of his small intestine.

- IJ news services

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1186 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Republicans now have to prove that they can govern

BYLINE: Todd L. Hooper

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 670 words

ABSTRACT

Marin IJ Opinion page for Saturday, Nov. 26

FULL TEXT


Election Day dawned with two flawed presidential candidates topping our ballots,
both of whom had disqualified themselves, in his or her own way. While we may be
shocked at which poor nominee won, no one should be surprised that we now have a
dubious president-elect.

For Democrats and liberals now wandering in the political desert, there is
little to look forward to for two years at least.

Conversely, Republicans and conservatives - even those harboring grave concerns
about Mr. Trump - see breath-taking opportunities. To make the most of these
opportunities, Republicans must also recognize their historic win brings
challenging responsibilities.

First among the opportunities is the Supreme Court. Republicans can ensure a
conservative majority for the next four years, and maybe much longer depending
on the stamina and lifelines of older justices.

Hillary Clinton promised to name justices who would "represent" and "stand up"
for one cause or another. Unfortunately, that is not the job of the Supreme
Court. Its role is to stand up for the Constitution. Representation is the work
of the elected branches of government.

Republicans can also nullify many Barack Obama initiatives. The easiest will be
the manifold, often suffocating executive orders, presidential memoranda and
regulations promulgated by the out-going administration.

President Obama's "pen-and-phone" governance was akin to building houses out of
straw or sticks - all are easily blown down by the big, bad wolf.

Repealing or reforming Obamacare will be much more complicated.  This is where
Republican responsibility starts to become evident. Managing and financing the
high cost of health care will challenge us for decades to come. The program
needs to be overhauled or replaced, but in ways that avoid whipsawing the
American people yet again.

And in ways that are enduring, which will necessitate bipartisan support.

Democrats who like to blame Republicans for the partisan animosity in Washington
conveniently forget Obama's famous 2009 response to then-House Majority Leader,
Republican Eric Cantor, who was arguing for bipartisan ideas: "Eric, I won."

This dismissive modus operandi doomed Obama's administration. Obamacare passed
without one Republican vote and without a single human being actually knowing
what the 1,000-plus page law meant. So now the GOP-dominated Congress will
dismantle it.

Republicans must learn from Obama's mistake and engage Democrats to develop
approaches to health care, economic growth, tax reform, immigration, and other
critical issues that a portion of Democrats will support. The 10 Democratic
senators up for re-election in 2018, who hail from states that Mr. Trump won,
may include willing partners.

Republicans also have a duty to step up and play important roles in the Trump
administration.

Many talented members of the GOP distanced themselves from Trump during the
campaign. Some of these same people, though, will need to put their personal
dislikes aside to work for a better country and a better Republican Party. Corny
as it sounds, there is patriotic duty.

Lastly, Republicans in Congress have a responsibility to act as a check on
Donald Trump and his administration. The Constitution's checks and balances at
the national level are among the branches of government, not between political
parties.

The American pendulum has been swinging to the right for the last six years.
Republicans have secured huge gains in state legislatures and governors' offices
during this time.

Our state bucked this trend and most Californians were oblivious to it, which
compounded the shock here at the resounding Republican win at the national
level.

Republicans can't excessively celebrate their ascension. Rather they must focus
on the hard work of governing and uniting.

Success will be good for the country and grand for the GOP.

Todd Hooper of Greenbrae is a business consultant. He was the GOP nominee for
Marin's seat in the House of Representatives in 2006.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1187 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

film imagines world with true equality;
Documentary explores history of women's struggle for power

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 826 words

ABSTRACT

Tiffany Shlain doc.

FULL TEXT

Emmy-nominated filmmaker Tiffany Shlain's new documentary, "50/50: The Past,
Present & Future of Women + Power," was inspired by this question: How many
women have been elected presidents and prime ministers throughout the world?

The answer, she says, "blew my mind."

When she was researching "50/50," a 20-minute romp through the 10,000-year
history of women in positions of power, she asked 100 people, including women
CEOs and leaders of feminist organizations, that question. Like her, no one even
came close to getting it right. According to Laura Liswood, secretary general of
the Council of Women World Leaders, the answer is 50, many more than most people
think.

"I was disappointed in myself for not knowing there were that many," she says,
noting that since "50/50" premiered in October at the TEDWomen 2016 Conference
at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, the number of women
heads of state had grown to 62. There would have been 63 if the U.S.
presidential election had turned out the way most so-called experts and pundits
had predicted.

Election night

On election night, the 46-year-old founder of the Webby Awards confidently put
on a white pantsuit (in honor of Hillary Clinton and the suffragettes) and did
some phone-banking for the Democratic party with her husband and two daughters,
ages 13 and 7. Afterward, they joined a group of friends to watch the returns on
the big screen at Sweetwater Music Hall in Mill Valley with a couple hundred
other like-minded people.

"We were so excited," she recalls, sitting behind a desk in the office of her
home in Mill Valley. "I ordered a mar

garita, saying to our daughters, 'This is our moment, this is history, girls.'
Then I remember that sinking feeling as the evening wore on, thinking this can't
be happening."

Because Americans did not elect their first woman president, Shlain, one of
Newsweek's "women shaping the 21st century," believes the question she poses in
"50/50" becomes even more relevant: What's it going to take for men and women to
reach true equality, not just in politics and board rooms, but throughout
society?

"We want to really go deep about where we are, what just happened, and how do we
get to a 50/50 world," she says, pointing out that Clinton may have lost the
election, but she won the popular vote. "The majority of people in this country
did want it. They were ready."

'Place of equality'

She hopes that those voters find some solace in the grand sweep of her film,
which uses her cinematic-thought-essay style to take viewers along with her on a
journey through history, going all the way back to the females in the Neolithic
age who held equal status with men.

"It really changes the story for a lot of women who have seen the film to
understand that we did come from a place of equality," she says. "It's not like
we've never had it."

She cites the advent of agriculture and the conquest of land through military
might for a "dark turn" that favored the physical strength of men and silenced
the voices of women.

"Patriarchy had arrived and was literally chiseled in stone," she says.

Using archival footage, news reports, humor and animation (she climbs into the
cockpit of a little plane and travels through time), Shlain reminds us of the
centuries of "bad ass" women leaders in ancient history whose stories have been
forgotten or, more often, erased by the men who succeeded them.

"It's sad that no one knows these amazing women," she says. "The history books
were written by men, so it's empowering to link them altogether and show them to
our daughters."

Women's march

On another leg of her cinematic voyage, she presents a montage of modern women
heads of state, from Sri Lankan Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike in the
1960s to current leaders like Germany's Angela Merkel, and she imagines what
women might accomplish over the next 50 years.

With 2.5 million hits, "50/50" is the most viewed of the 12 short films in a
female anthology collected by Refinery29, a digital media company focused on
women's issues. It's available for viewing at50-50project.org\x{200b}.
Refinery29 says Shlain "embarks on the true history of powerful women around the
world." And radio host Lauren Schiller, in her blog "Inflection Point," says
Shlain "tells the story of what the world used to look like and what it could
look like with true equality."

With her daughters, Shlain plans on carrying on the fight, joining the Million
Women March Jan. 21 in Washington, D.C., and showing the film to women gathered
there.

"Since the election, understanding the power of courageous women in history -
political leaders, scientists, artists - gives a bigger historical context that
lets us come at this from a place of strength," she says.

"In the longer arc of history, there's something really powerful in seeing the
waves, the setbacks and the steps forward, showing we're moving in the right
direction. It gives people renewed hope."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1188 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Clinton joins Green Party Wisconsin vote recount

BYLINE: Matt Zapotosky; The Washington Post

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

ABSTRACT

CLINTON

FULL TEXT

Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign has been quietly exploring whether there
was any "outside interference" in the election results and will participate in
the election recount in Wisconsin initiated by Green Party presidential
candidate Jill Stein, a Clinton campaign lawyer said Saturday.

Clinton campaign lawyer Marc Elias said in a Medium post that the campaign has
received "hundreds of messages, emails, and calls urging us to do something,
anything, to investigate claims that the election results were hacked and
altered in a way to disadvantage Secretary Clinton," especially in Michigan,
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, where the "combined margin of victory for

Donald Trump was merely 107,000 votes."

Elias said the campaign has "not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or
outside attempts to alter the voting technology." But because of the margin of
victory - and the degree of apparent foreign interference during the campaign -
Elias said that Clinton officials had "quietly taken a number of steps in the
last two weeks to rule in or out any possibility of outside interference in the
vote tally in these critical battleground states."

He said that the Clinton campaign will participate in the Stein-initiated
recount in Wisconsin by having representatives on the ground monitoring the
count and having lawyers represent them in court if needed. And if Stein makes
good on efforts to prompt similar processes in Pennsylvania and Michigan, Elias
said, the Clinton campaign would do so there, as well.

"The campaign is grateful to all those who have expended time and effort to
investigate various claims of abnormalities and irregularities," Elias said.
"While that effort has not, in our view, resulted in evidence of manipulation of
results, now that a recount is underway, we believe we have an obligation to the
more than 64 million Americans who cast ballots for Hillary Clinton to
participate in ongoing proceedings to ensure that an accurate vote count will be
reported."

Trump's reaction

The recount effort is somewhat unusual in that it comes weeks after Clinton
conceded - and at the request and with the financial backing of a third-party
candidate, Stein, who has no chance of winning, said election-law expert Richard
Hasen, a law professor at the University of California at Irvine. Clinton, too,
has virtually no chance of altering the result, given that she would have to
reverse not just Wisconsin but also Michigan and Pennsylvania to become
president, Hasen said.

In a statement, Trump said the recount was "just a way for Jill Stein, who
received less than one percent of the vote overall and wasn't even on the ballot
in many states, to fill her coffers with money" and said the election results
should be "respected instead of being challenged and abused, which is exactly
what Jill Stein is doing."

"The people have spoken and the election is over, and as Hillary Clinton herself
said on election night, in addition to her conceding by congratulating me, 'We
must accept this result and then look to the future,' " Trump said.

For her part, Stein took to Twitter to question Clinton's motives for
participating in the recount effort.

"Why would Hillary Clinton - who conceded the election to Donald Trump - want
#Recount2016?" Stein wrote. "You cannot be on-again, off-again about democracy."

Change doubtful

Recounts can change outcomes. Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., famously defeated Norm
Coleman for the seat he now holds after a months-long recount and legal battle,
even though Coleman seemed initially to have a lead. But the margins are usually
in the hundreds, not thousands, and typically recounts are initiated by
candidates in close races refusing to accept defeat, as is the case in the North
Carolina gubernatorial race between incumbent Pat McCrory (R) and Democrat Roy
Cooper, Hasen said.

"I don't think there's any realistic chance whatsoever that even if recounts are
done in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, that's going to change the outcome
in the states, or in the presidential election generally," Hasen said.

Trump won 1,404,000 votes in Wisconsin, according to the state's election
commission, while Clinton had 1,381,823. The Wisconsin recount will be conducted
by county boards of canvassers, who must move quickly to meet a mid-December
deadline to ensure the state's electoral votes are counted. Stein has to file by
Monday to prompt a recount in Pennsylvania, and by Wednesday to trigger a
recount in Michigan. The results in that state are not technically certified
until Monday.

The presidential campaign was marked by fears that Russian hacking might affect
the outcome, especially after the hackers penetrated the computer network of the
Democratic National Committee and were found to have attempted intrusions on
voter registration databases. The Washington Post also recently reported, citing
researchers who tracked the phenomenon, that Russians created and spread fake
news about the election with the apparent goal of helping Trump.

Questions raised

During the campaign, Clinton criticized Trump for refusing to say that he would
accept the election results if she won. Asked during an October debate whether
he would do so, Trump responded that he would "keep you in suspense." Clinton
called that answer "horrifying" and said Trump was "talking down our democracy."

In recent days, though, it is Clinton's supporters who have raised questions
about the outcome of the election. A viral post spread by some Clinton backers,
including actress Debra Messing, suggested - falsely - that the Justice
Department was "tallying calls" from people who wanted an audit of the 2016
election and urged people to make their displeasure known.

"Even if it's busy, keep calling," one version said. "We should not back down
from this."

New York magazine reported that Clinton was being urged "by a group of prominent
computer scientists and election lawyers" to call for a recount in Wisconsin,
Michigan and Pennsylvania, and the group had some evidence of possibly unusual
activity. That fueled more skepticism and calls for action by Clinton
supporters.

The evidence of possible malfeasance, though, was limited. According to New York
magazine, the group found that Clinton "received 7 percent fewer votes in
counties that relied on electronic-voting machines compared with counties that
used optical scanners and paper ballots," and that based on that "statistical
analysis, Clinton may have been denied as many as 30,000 votes; she lost
Wisconsin by 27,000."

Clinton probe

J. Alex Halderman, one of the academics reportedly involved, later wrote on
Medium that the deviations were "probably not" the result of a cyberattack, but
that "the only way to know whether a cyberattack changed the result is to
closely examine the available physical evidence - paper ballots and voting
equipment in critical states like Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania."

Posting a link to a New York Times story about Clinton supporters calling for a
recount, senior Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway said, "Look who 'can't accept the
election results.' "

Elias's post might fuel similar criticism. Notably, though, Clinton did not
initiate the recount herself; Stein did, after raising millions of dollars to
fund the effort and claiming this had been a "hack-riddled election." Elias said
that the campaign had not planned to ask for a recount itself because it had
found no actionable evidence of hacking.

The Clinton campaign had investigated the matter extensively. Elias said the
campaign had "lawyers and data scientists and analysts combing over the results
to spot anomalies" and had also "monitored and staffed the post-election
canvasses - where voting machine tapes are compared to poll-books, provisional
ballots are resolved, and all of the math is double-checked from election
night." He said the campaign also met with outside experts and "attempted to
systematically catalogue and investigate every theory that has been presented to
us within our ability to do so."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1189 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 426 words

ABSTRACT

-

FULL TEXT

ISRAEL

Troops kill ISIS allies in the Golan Heights

Israeli forces engaged in a brief but deadly fight Sunday against Syrian
militiamen allied with the Islamic State, killing four militants in the fraught
borderlands of the Golan Heights.

It was the "first substantial fight" between Israeli soldiers and ISIS
affiliates in the long-running Syrian war, an Israel military spokesman said. No
Israelis were injured.

Israel has pledged to stay out of the Syrian conflict but has also vowed that it
will respond to any threats made against Israelis in the Golan Heights. Israel
essentially annexed the Golan Heights in 1981 when it extended Israeli civil
law, as opposed to military rule, to the territory it seized from Syria during
the 1967 Six Day War.

The international community, including the United States, has never recognized
Israel's annexation of the heights and views the area as Syrian territory
occupied by Israel.

FRANCE

Fillon seals victory in Republican primary

Francois Fillon declared victory in France's conservative primary on Sunday,
trouncing his more moderate rival Alain Juppe to become Les Republicains party
candidate for president next year.

Fillon is a former prime minister under Nicolas Sarkozy, whom he eliminated in
an earlier round last week.

During the campaign, Fillon proposed deep cuts to public spending, looser labor
regulations, a hgher retirement age and the abolition of the 35-hour work week.
He also advocated cultivating an alliance with Russia.

With the Republican candidate in place, attention will now turn back to the
ruling Socialist Party and the future of Francois Hollande, the least popular
French president in half a century. Also in the race is the anti-immigration,
anti-euro Marine Le Pen.

ENERGY

OPEC pushing for deal to cut output of crude

OPEC is embarking on a last-ditch diplomatic push to reach an agreement for a
cut in crude production, with the oil ministers of Algeria and Venezuela heading
to Russia to get the group's biggest rival on board.

The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet on Wednesday in
Vienna to finalize the terms of its first production decrease in eight years.
OPEC's three biggest producers - Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Iran - remain divided
about how to allocate the planned output reduction. Russia has so far resisted
OPEC's request that it join the cut.

Failure to reach a deal could lead oil prices to drop below $40 a barrel,
according to the state news agency Algerie Presse Service, citing Algerian
Energy Minister Noureddine Boutarfa.

- IJ news reports


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1190 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 441 words

ABSTRACT

-

FULL TEXT


election

Trump adviser dings Romney on loyalty

Kellyanne Conway, Donald Trump's senior adviser and former campaign manager,
publicly criticized the possibility of Mitt Romney becoming secretary of state
on Sunday.

On ABC's "This Week," Conway said Romney had taken special steps to question
Trump's character and intellect - in her eyes a major detriment because the
primary quality of a secretary of state should be loyalty to the president, she
said.

"There was the 'Never Trump' movement and then there was Gov. Mitt Romney,"
Conway said. "He went out of his way to hurt Donald Trump."

She added that it was unclear whether Romney had even voted for Trump.

Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 GOP presidential candidate,
was a fierce and vocal critic of Trump throughout his campaign. In a memorable
speech from March, Romney said Trump was "playing the members of the American
public for suckers."

NEW ORLEANS

1 killed amid shooting in the French Quarter

One person was fatally shot and nine were injured during the Bayou Classic
weekend in a crowded tourist location in New Orleans, authorities said.

The shooting occurred before 1:30 a.m. Sunday near the intersection of Bourbon
and Iberville streets in the city's French Quarter. New Orleans Police Chief
Michael Harrison said at least 30 officers were patrolling the French Quarter at
the time because of the annual college football game.

Police do not know whether the victims - two women and eight men, all in their
20s or 30s - were targeted or what precipitated the shooting, Harrison said.

ECONOMY

Per-person dip seen in holiday spending

About 154 million shoppers made purchases at stores or on e-commerce sites this
holiday weekend, the National Retail Federation reported Sunday, a bump up from
the 151 million people who last year participated in the annual barrage of Black
Friday deals.

Though it is encouraging for the retail industry that more consumers opened
their wallets this time around, it wasn't all good news: Average spending per
person was down to $289.19 from $299.60 in 2015.

Matt Shay, the chief executive of the National Retail Federation, attributed the
decline in spending to just how deep and broad the discounts were over the
four-day weekend.

But other factors could have contributed to the decline in per-person spending:
Retailers have been spreading their Black Friday deals out over a longer
stretch, so it's possible that many people pounced on offers several days before
Thanksgiving even arrived. And the federation's survey found that about 122
million people plan to shop on Cyber Monday, up from 121 million last year.

- IJ news reports

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1191 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Financial pros eye Trump's economy;
Rising post-election stocks grab attention

BYLINE: Adrian Rodriguez; arodriguez@marinij.com @adrianrrodri on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

ABSTRACT

One thing a Trump presidency is apparently good for, is the stock market. A
Trump presidency and a Republican Congress will likely flush taxes for the
wealthy, spend on infrastructure, run up the deficit and cut environmental
regulations, all of which boost growth -- and make a whole lot of money for the
1 percent. Marin wealth advisers weigh in on what this means for the economy,
locally, at the state and for the nation. Get balance.

FULL TEXT

Financial advisers in Marin say it's a good time to review investments, as
Donald Trump's victory in the U.S. presidential election appears to be signaling
a strong stock market.

"If you're not investing, you should be putting your toe in," said Neil
Hennessy, CIO of Hennessy Funds in Novato.

Since Nov. 8, the stock market has seen some ups and downs, rising to record
numbers last week. Investors nationwide have been betting that with Trump in
office, and with a Republican-led Congress, there will be a push to deregulate
energy and banking, cut taxes and increase government spending on
infrastructure, making it the opportune time to invest and buy stock in the
financial and commodities sectors.

However, Hennessy said investors should pay less attention to what might happen
in a Trump administration and focus on the fact that "business is very
resilient," and that "everything points to a higher market" because of that.

"The most important thing is there is no euphoria in the market place today,
either on the greed side or the fear side," he said. "As that continues,
business will continue to do well."

Hennessy recommends that investors trade out of fixed-income investments and
focus on high-quality dividend-paying stocks, which he thinks will be rewarding.
If there are tax cuts, the benefits could be greater, he said.

Robert Eyler, chief economist for the Marin Economic Forum, said it makes sense
in the short-term to invest in commodities, such as energy, specifically oil,
and in finances.

"That's where you've seen all the activity in the past three weeks," he said,
"because those are the kind of industries that got a boost."

Shifting strategy

Stocks have slowed since hitting record numbers

just before Thanksgiving. Stocks moved mostly lower Wednesday as gains in
blue-chip energy companies and banks were not enough to make up for losses in
the broader market.

The bond market took heavy losses, with the 10-year U.S. Treasury note rising to
its highest level in a year and a half. The higher yields sent bond substitutes
like utilities, telecommunications and real estate stocks sharply lower.

Oil stocks climbed after OPEC nations, which collectively produce more than
one-third of the world's oil, agreed to trim production for the first time in
eight years.

Trump's election has sent investors fleeing out of safe-play assets like bonds,
gold and dividend-paying stocks this month and into riskier investments like
small companies, which would benefit the most from a growing domestic economy.

The Russell 2000 index, which is made up of mostly small- to mid-sized
companies, soared 11 percent in November. That's the biggest one-month gain for
that index in five years.

Investors believe Trump's promises to cut taxes, invest heavily in
infrastructure and cut back regulation will help grow the economy and might even
cause inflation, which has been almost non-existent since the financial crisis.
U.S. government bonds quickly become less appealing to investors in a healthy,
growing economy and in an inflationary environment.

Drastic changes

"We have elected a pro-growth president who is going to move very quickly to
make some drastic changes, and investors are trying to figure out what to do
with that," said Tom di Galoma, head of Treasury trading at Seaport Global
Holdings.

Di Galoma said he sees the 10-year note's yield hitting 3 percent by year end, a
level not seen in nearly three years.

But for those investing for the long term, classic technology and biotechnology
could be the way to go, Eyler said.

He warned that some of the potential for profit in the commodities and financial
sectors may have already been eaten up with the excitement since the November
election. He also advised investors to note that the economy has been on a
demand-side growth pattern for nearly seven years, which he says "is almost the
longest economic recovery in the last 100 years," and that the economy is still
waiting for a "supply-side boost."

James E. Demmert, founder and managing partner at Main Street Research, a
Sausalito-based investment and wealth management firm, said "Trump came along at
the right time," because "his presidency coincides with the beginning of a new
business cycle or a re-acceleration of corporate profits."

Demmert agrees that investment in materials and the financial sector - including
local banks - is wise, adding that industrial and health care would be good
strategies as well.

"One thing I think investors should think about is what they do about interest
rates and bonds," he said. "Interest rates are headed up and investors should be
very careful when that happens - as they will teeter-totter. If you own bond
funds, that can be devastating on maturity dates."

Bond holdings

Bob Hunter, principal and founder of Marin Wealth Advisors in San Rafael, said
in an email on behalf of his firm that expectations of a more favorable
corporate regulatory and tax environment should be an incentive for companies to
invest in plants and equipment, further boosting the economy, and again helping
jobs and wages.

"Given our sense that economic activity could accelerate, resulting in higher
wages and commodity prices, we are reviewing our bond holdings, especially
maturities, as increased inflation usually leads to lower bond prices," he
wrote. "Regarding equities, we feel stocks in general are historically in the
fully valued range on an earnings basis, but expectations of higher earnings and
money flowing out of bonds should help to support current stock prices. It's a
good time for investors of all sizes to review their investments, including
401(k) plans, for under performers and duplication."

Geoff Hakim, founder of Marin Capital Management, a Novato-based firm
specializing in alternative investments, is skeptical of the recent stock market
activity.

"The stock market is rarely based on reality and it's always based on
expectations," he said. "What we're seeing from this last month or so is
basically people hoping that having Trump in there will improve the economy. We
are going to have to wait and see."

Hakim argued that the bond market is in the worst place it's been for years and
that "instead of being subject to all of the massive volatility that stocks go
through," he and his firm recommend hedge fund investment.

"The client ends up with a lot more money in their pocket when they go that
route," he said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1192 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Rep. Becerra nominated for state attorney general

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 800 words

ABSTRACT

Gov. Jerry Brown has tapped U.S. Rep. Xavier Becerra to succeed Kamala Harris as
California attorney general

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> California Gov. Jerry Brown on Thursday named U.S. Rep. Xavier
Becerra as state attorney general, succeeding newly elected U.S. Sen. Kamala
Harris and ending speculation about whether he would appoint a caretaker or an
ambitious Democrat for the second-highest statewide office.

Becerra, 58, a rising star in the party who served as a high-profile Latino
surrogate for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's campaign this
year. He was widely discussed as a potential cabinet appointee if Clinton won.

But with the election of Trump and a Republican sweep of both houses of
Congress, his 24-year tenure in the House is no longer as appealing. In the
attorney general's position, Becerra could serve through 2018 then seek another
eight years after that.

Trump's election upended his path to influence, said Thad Kousser, Political
Science Department chair at the University of California, San Diego.

"Washington, DC is now red territory, so if he wants to have an impact on
policy, California's the place to do it," Kousser said.

The Democratic governor noted Becerra's service in Congress, in the state
Legislature and as a deputy attorney general. The nomination is subject to
confirmation by the state Assembly and Senate. It will be officially submitted
after Harris resigns.

"I'm confident he will be a champion for all Californians and help our state
aggressively combat climate change," the Democratic governor said in a
statement.

If confirmed, Becerra will be the state's chief law enforcement officer and will
oversee the legal defenses of California's aggressive efforts to control
greenhouse gases. He'll also preside over likely skirmishes between the state's
liberal lawmakers and the administration of Republican President-elect Donald
Trump.

Becerra said in a statement that Brown had presented him with an opportunity he
can't refuse.

"As a former deputy attorney general, I relished the chance to be our state's
chief law enforcement officer to protect consumers, advance criminal justice
reform and, of course, keep our families safe," Becerra said. He noted that he
traveled to 15 states as he campaigned for congressional candidates in
battleground districts this year.

"But California right now is ahead of the country when it comes to clean energy,
commonsense treatment of immigrants, real health security and so much more," he
said.

As Democratic caucus chairman, Becerra is the highest ranking Latino in
Congress, where he has served since 1992. Brown's announcement noted that he was
the first in his family to graduate from college, obtaining both bachelor of
arts and law degrees from Stanford University.

Kousser noted that going to battle in the courtroom with the Trump
administration over climate change and immigration will raise his profile both
in California and nationally, which would help him if he wants to run for
governor in 2018 or to replace Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., when she decides
to retire.

It also gives him a leg up against other rising Latino officials with ambition
for higher office, including state Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon, D-Los
Angeles, and former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa.

Becerra's replacement in his solidly Democratic district in Los Angeles would be
picked via special election. His expected departure immediately set off
speculation about his potential replacement. Former Assembly Speaker John Perez
quickly announced he would seek the seat representing areas including downtown,
Boyle Heights, Chinatown and Highland Park.

Becerra is likely to face easy confirmation in the Democratically controlled
Legislature. De Leon and Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon, D-Paramount, both
released effusive statements praising Becerra as someone who will stand up to
Washington and defend the rights of Californians.

Michael Rushford, president of the conservative Criminal Justice Legal
Foundation, doesn't expect major changes in criminal justice policy with Becerra
atop the state Department of Justice.

"The governor has done a lot of things with regards to criminal justice policy
that I suspect he wants to have kept in place," Rushford said. "So I would be
surprised if you were going to get an attorney general who was going to look at
his policies unfavorably."

Becerra was a deputy attorney general for three years before he began his
political career in 1990. The experience should help ensure a smooth transition,
said Steve Wagstaffe, San Mateo County's top prosecutor and president of the
California District Attorneys Association.

"I look forward to meeting him soon and establishing a relationship with him and
the district attorneys," Wagstaffe said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1193 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday

Marin voter turnout reaches 89 percent; some records set

BYLINE: Adrian Rodriguez; arodriguez@marinij.com @adrianrrodri on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 319 words

ABSTRACT

Election certified Dec. 2. Mill Valley win? What was final countywide voter
turnout?

FULL TEXT

The historic presidential battle between Hillary Clinton and President-elect
Donald Trump sent Marin voters to the polls in record numbers this year with
160,795 registered and 143,041 ballots cast, according to unofficial counts
Friday.

Although this represents an 89 percent voter turnout, which is lower than the 91
percent turnout in 2012, "we broke some records compared to the last two
presidential elections," said Lynda Roberts, county registrar of voters. The
results will be certified Tuesday.

This year 90,320 Democrats registered to vote in the county, compared with
26,599 Republicans and 37,326 no-party-preference voters. Registered Republicans
decreased from more than 28,000 in 2012 and more than 31,000 in 2008. There were
about 6,000 more registered Democrats than the past two years.

Numbers overall were up.

There were 5,770 more voters registered this year than in 2012, and 5,155 more
than in 2008. As for those who actually voted, there were 7,603 more ballots
cast this year than in 2012, and 1,720 more than in 2008.

Vote-by-mail ballots were also up by about 18,000 from 2008. More than 2,800
military and overseas votes were cast this year, up nearly 2,300 from 2008.

The closest race in the county, Measure E, the Mill Valley School District's
extension of its parcel tax, needed a two-thirds vote to survive and passed on a
slim margin with 66.8 percent approval.

"We feel incredibly thankful that the Mill Valley community supported our
schools once again," said Emily Uhlhorn, chairwoman of the Measure E campaign.

Property owners pay $933.46 this year. The tax, which will increase by 5 percent
each year, will go toward maintaining academic programs, library hours and class
sizes.

In place since 2008, the parcel tax provides 20 percent of the school district's
$42 million annual budget.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1194 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

Sanders blames party's leaders;
Says Democratic elites opened door for Trump

BYLINE: Richard Halstead; rhalstead@marinij.com @HalsteadRichard on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 804 words

ABSTRACT

SANDERS SPEECH

FULL TEXT

Speaking in San Rafael on Friday night, Bernie Sanders told a crowd of more than
850 people that they shouldn't blame many of the people who voted for Donald
Trump for his presidential victory.

The Vermont senator said they should blame instead the elite leadership of the
Democratic Party, which for years did too little to address the economic pain of
an increasingly large segment of the nation.

"I look at this election not as a victory for Mr. Trump, who wins the election
as the most unpopular candidate in perhaps the history of our country," Sanders
said. "But as a loss for the Democratic Party."

The event, held in Dominican University's Angelico Hall in conjunction with
Corte Madera's Book Passage, was designed to promote Sanders' new book, "Our
Revolution: A Future to Believe In." Sanders barely mentioned the book, however.
As he did during his bid for the Democratic presidential nomination, Sanders
concentrated instead on the issue that has energized him throughout his
political career: economic inequality. He said he doesn't believe that all of
the people who voted for Trump are racists or sexists or homophobes.

"I don't believe that at all,"

Sanders said. "I think a lot of people ended up holding their noses and voting
for Trump because they are in pain."

He provided a few choice examples of that pain. For example, he noted the fact
that millions of Americans still lack health insurance and that many people with
insurance have high deductibles that discourage them from seeing a doctor and
can't afford the medicine they're prescribed if they do consult a physician.

Sanders said that half of people age 55 have no money saved for retirement, that
on average men in West Virginia's affluent Fairfax County live 18 years longer
than men in the state's economically disadvantaged McDowell County, and that
tens of thousands of people living in Baltimore, Maryland, are addicted to
heroin.

"There are a lot of people in our country who are hurting and they are hurting
very, very badly," Sanders said." The political establishment is not hearing
their pain; the financial and economic establishment could care less about their
lives; and the media establishment is not dealing with the reality of their
lives; and along comes Mr. Trump."

But Sanders said voters who believed Trump when he told them he was going to
make their lives better are going to be disappointed.

"It appears we're going to be governed by tweets, a new form of government, 140
characters or less, and there we go," Sanders said.

For people who are distressed by Trump's election, Sanders had some disturbing
news: things could get worse if campaign finance laws are weakened further.

"The reality is that this country both politically and economically is moving
toward an oligarchic form of society where a small number of very wealthy and
powerful people control our economy and our political life," Sanders said.

"So what we have to do," Sanders said, "is create a strong grassroots movement
where we bring people together to fight not only for social justice, not only
for environmental justice, but for economic justice as well. But here is where
it becomes difficult.

"It is very easy for many Americans to say, I hate racism, I hate homophobia, I
hate sexism," Sanders said, "but it is a little bit harder for people in the
middle or upper middle class to say, maybe we do have to deal with the greed of
Wall Street.

"One of the things I'm trying to do," Sanders said, "is to figure out a way to
radically transform the Democratic Party from a party led by a liberal elite to
a party led by working people and young people and people who really want to
transform society."

If attendance at Sanders' book tour appearances is any indication, he will have
no trouble recruiting foot soldiers in his bid to revamp the Democratic Party.

Karen West, Book Passage's events director, said tickets to the San Rafael event
sold out in six hours and the store stopped adding names to the waiting list
when it reached 700. Earlier Friday, Sanders spoke to about 2,000 people during
a sold-out appearance at UC Berkeley's Zellerbach Auditorium.

"He's the guy I find that is speaking the truth. He really cares about the
people," said Richard Ehret of Sausalito, 70, who attended the San Rafael event
with his daughter and a group of her friends.

"I'm a supporter of Bernie's, and I voted for him. I like how he's really for
the people," said Analisa Duharte, 18, a Dominican University freshman.

"I wanted to find out how we're going to survive the age of Trump and maintain a
progressive agenda," said Rendell Bower of San Rafael, who attended the event
with his partner, Lisa Haydon, who said she supported Hillary Clinton.

"I supported the person who was most likely to win," Haydon said.
"Unfortunately, I guessed wrong."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2016 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1195 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

California group files petition in secession effort

BYLINE: Juliet Williams; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 524 words

ABSTRACT

A group calling for California to secede from the United States has submitted a
new petition asking voters to start the process

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> A group calling for California to secede from the United States
submitted a proposed petition Monday seeking a ballot measure that would strip
the state constitution of language that says California is an inseparable part
of the nation.

The Yes California Independence Campaign hopes to put a question on the November
2018 ballot authorizing a vote on independence in spring 2019.

The group proposed the secession idea more than two years ago, but the so-called
"CalExit" movement gained serious traction on social media after Republican
Donald Trump won the presidential election.

Group Vice President Marcus Ruiz Evans said the organization now has 15,000
Twitter followers, 30,000 Facebook followers and 13,000 volunteers who have
signed up to collect signatures for the effort.

He said the election of Trump proved proponents' point that working within the
current electoral system is not sufficient to generate serious change.

The attorney general's office will review the request and submit language for a
title and summary that would allow the group to begin collecting signatures for
an initial referendum.

The final results of the election earlier this month will determine how many
signatures the group will need to place its measure on the 2018 ballot.

The U.S. Constitution does not provide for state secession.

Experts say the only way to legally secede would be to change the federal
Constitution, which requires the approval of Congress and 38 states.

But Ruiz said if 55 percent of voters approved a referendum on the issue,
proponents hope to make their case to the United Nations under its treaty on
self-determination. He said that threshold would constitute an internationally
recognized threshold requiring the governor to apply to the U.N. for "the
Republic of California" to become a member of the U.N.

"We know that you don't just vote and that it happens. This would be to start
the conversation," he said. "You have to have something where you say this is
what the public wants."

The group tried unsuccessfully to put several initiatives on the ballot this
year, including a proposal to declare California a separate nation, to rename
the governor the "president" of California, and to fly the California state flag
atop the United States flag. Those signature-gathering efforts fizzled.

Repeated attempts to create a 51st state in Northern California, named the State
of Jefferson, have also failed. That movement generally draws more conservative
supporters who are dissatisfied with California's dominance by Democrats.

Still, Ruiz said State of Jefferson supporters are welcome in the CalExit
movement, which would also shift many powers to county-level governments that he
said are more in line with local residents' wishes.

The group moved up its original plan to ask voters to approve a referendum in
2020 because of the interest following Trump's election over Hillary Clinton,
Ruiz said.

Backers expect to begin collecting signatures after Trump's January
inauguration.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1196 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Trump's great con creates the first fake news presidency

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 668 words

ABSTRACT

Milbank column 11/20

FULL TEXT

WASHINGTON >> BuzzFeed reported recently that fake news stories about the
election generated more engagement on Facebook than the top election stories
from 19 major news outlets - combined.

And that's not the half of it.

Not only is fake news getting more attention than actual news but the leading
purveyor of fake news in the United States is now the president-elect.

For 17 months, Donald Trump treated the nation to a series of outlandish
promises. He'll eliminate the $19 trillion federal debt in eight years. He'll
balance the budget without cutting Social Security, Medicare and other
entitlements. He'll bring back lost coal jobs. He'll make Mexico pay for a
border wall. He'll deport 11 million illegal immigrants while growing the
economy by at least 6 percent.

Now Trump is the president-elect, and it's time to deliver on the impossible. No
wonder his transition is racked with chaos and infighting. Scripture tells us
you can't serve both God and mammon. Yet Trump proposes to be served by both
Reince Priebus and Stephen Bannon - one a chief of staff who is a paragon of the
establishment and the other a top adviser who is a leading voice for white
supremacists. The array of impossible promises and false claims has all the
appearances of a Ponzi scheme, with the $18 trillion U.S. economy in the
balance. Bernie Madoff's scheme lost only $50 billion.

Early indications are that Trump plans to continue to fake it. On Thursday
night, he tweeted that as a result of his work with Ford, the automaker would
keep a plant that makes Lincoln SUVs "in Kentucky - no [sic] Mexico."

But Ford had never planned to close the Kentucky plant. It was merely planning
to make more Ford Escapes instead of Lincolns there - a change that would have
resulted in no job losses. Ford is proceeding with its previously announced plan
to build a new factory in Mexico.

We see the Ponzi scheme unraveling in the substance of what Trump is proposing,
too. One of Trump's surrogates, Carl Higbie, caused a furor last week by saying
the infamous internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II provided a
legal "precedent" for Trump's plan to create a Muslim registry. But for all the
outrage Higbie caused, the actual policy being floated - reinstatement of a
George W. Bush-era policy - is far more modest than Trump's proposed ban on
Muslim immigration and threat to register American Muslims.

This is the best-case scenario - that Trump's fake-news presidential campaign
really was all a con. Preposterous promises give way to modest proposals. This
would disappoint his supporters, but perhaps save the country.

Many of Trump's absurd promises will come due soon. Trump spoke of abolishing
the Education Department and the Environmental Protection Agency, said he would
rebuild American roads for one-third the current price, monitor mosques,
prosecute Hillary Clinton and never take a vacation. He said he would "bomb the
s--- out of" the Islamic State, kill the relatives of terrorists, shut down
parts of the internet, reinstate waterboarding, dramatically increase tariffs,
eliminate Wall Street reforms, cut the budget 20 percent and end birthright
citizenship.

No surprise that the transition is chaotic. Lobbyists are in, then out. Chris
Christie and Mike Rogers are in, then out. Frank Gaffney is in, or perhaps not.
Eliot Cohen withdraws his cooperation, predicting "ugly" things ahead.

And Trump says everything is proceeding "so smoothly."

Trump plays cat-and-mouse with the national press corps and continues to tweet
like an internet troll, complete with bad spelling. Qualified candidates are
rejected in favor of loyalists.

You can't make this stuff up. Or maybe you can. Paul Horner, the leading
purveyor of fake news on Facebook, told The Washington Post's Caitlin Dewey he
was stunned by Americans' gullibility: "I mean, that's how Trump got elected. He
just said whatever he wanted, and people believed everything."

But surely you can't fool all the people all the time.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1197 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1567 words

ABSTRACT

Sunday 11/20 letters

FULL TEXT

Demagogue in the White House

Thank you, Jack F.K. Bungart, for your well-worded and courageous column
regarding Donald Trump's election. As an old man, I never dreamed that I would
live to see my country taken over by an overt racist, demagogue (for you Trump
supporters, a demagogue is a politician who panders to the fears and prejudices
of the electorate to win office). I thought we had left the Joe McCarthys and
George Wallaces in the waste dump of history where they belong. Sadly, we may
now find out if Hamilton was correct when he prophesied in the  Federalist
Papers that the only thing that can destroy the Republic is the election of a
demagogue to the presidency.

We have a sizable portion of this country who believe that civil rights laws
should be repealed. They call President Obama a "sub-human mongrel" and claim
that the Holocaust never happened ... Hitler was simply misunderstood. There is
a billboard in Arkansas that succinctly expresses some of their opinions:
"Anti-racism is a code word for anti-white." Pogo was right - "I have seen the
enemy and he is us." With the appointment of Bannon to the White House staff, it
is official. On Jan. 20, 2017, Nazis have control of the United States.

For those who think I am being overly dramatic, I suggest you Google the
alt-right and read what they think. Then click on other racist websites like
Stormfront (they claim to be the voice of "the embattled white minority"). If
you want to know what living under a government that supports racism is like,
read about Emmett Till and that will lead you to other sites discussing the
white terrorism that left schools and churches burned and thousands murdered,
all without any governmental interference.

To those who think we should get behind Trump and wish him the best, I simply
say "sieg heil."

- Lloyd Hummert/Vallejo

Keeping America Great - Vision 2020

The recent presidential election result has caused us all - Democrats,
Republicans and independents -  to ask "what just happened" ?

For Democrats, just like the Cleveland Indians, the answer is that no lead is
insurmountable. For Republicans, the answer is the same, only they are the
Chicago Cubs. For independents they need to remember that decisions are made
only by those who show up. I am an independent, and I did vote.

I voted for Hillary Clinton because I believe she is the most qualified person
in recent history to run for the office. The historical significance of being
the first female president of the United States of America was an added benefit.
So why did she lose?

The other candidate did an excellent job of portraying her as "crooked Hillary,"
although she has neither been indicted, nor convicted, for any crime. Her use of
a private email server as Secretary of State was a mistake, which she has
acknowledged, and undoubtedly cost her a lot of credibility with voters. Her use
of the term "basket of deplorables" in referring to Trump supporters was an
error in judgment. It is universally acknowledged that you can attack the
candidate but never attack the electorate. She failed to follow Michelle Obama's
advice of "when you go low, we go high."

The challenge for the Democratic Party in the future is rather obvious. The
first is to remember that many voters cross party lines and you should not make
any assumptions about groups or states. Second, that the party is historically
the  "protector of the unprotected," and must return to those roots. As you
watch high school students leave class to demonstrate, consider now that those
same people will be of voting age in 2020. The time to consider "Vision 2020" is
now.

On March 30 1912, Teddy Roosevelt made a speech in New York in which he said:
"We here in America hold in our hands the hopes of the world, the fate of the
coming years; and shame and disgrace will be ours, if in our eyes the light of
high resolve is diminished; if we trail in the dust the golden hopes of men."
Those words are even more important today.

Perhaps our current situation is best described by John Steinbeck in his book
"America and Americans": "We have failed sometimes, taken wrong paths, paused
for renewal, filled our bellies, and licked our wounds; but we have never
slipped back - NEVER." We do not need to "make America great again." We do need
to help all Americans to pursue and achieve the American dream.

Trump said what he believed his supporters wanted to hear, despite the fact that
they were offensive to most Americans. Time will tell whether they were true
beliefs or campaign rhetoric.

Other than his immediate family, most of whom deserve respect, I am concerned by
the background of those who surround him. Several have made a career of
inflammatory comments about ethnic and religious groups in America. In the movie
"8 Millimeter" there is a line as follows: "If you spend time with the devil,
the devil does not change."

We do need to support him as president by being the "loyal opposition," and
remind him that getting fewer votes than your opponent is not exactly a mandate.
Those who demonstrate against his offensive rhetoric should continue to do so
but also emulate the methods of people like Martin Luther King Jr. and Ghandi.

Violence in the streets is never the answer.

In the final analysis, our job as the loyal opposition is to help Mr. Trump be a
one-term president!

- Jim Mahern Sr./Vallejo

Bungart nails it

Jack F.K. Bungart, your piece on Sunday, Nov. 13 ("Trump's win: What does it
mean?") was outstanding. A comprehensive and heartfelt indictment of the
dangerous jackass who has just been elected President of the United States of
America. Did his supporters, on election day, forget all of the disqualifying
characteristics, actions and statements of this man, did they overlook them, or
did they celebrate those things?

Should anyone have harbored any hope that Trump would become more measured and
rational in office, his choice of Stephen Bannon as his chief consigliere will
dash that hope. Bannon, a self-described "Lenninist" who wants to "destroy the
state," wears his hatred and paranoia on his sleeve. Bannon's appointment was
cheered by David Duke and neo-Nazis.

You are sure to get hate mail for your editorial. Truth-telling is never
universally popular. I for one thank you.

- Gary K. Heppell/Vallejo


Brilliant column

I am a lifelong Vallejoan and read the Times-Herald daily. I must comment on the
column by Jack F.K. Bungart in the Nov. 13 Times-Herald.

Brilliant!

I couldn't agree more with Mr. Bungart's assessment of the unfortunate election
results. In my opinion, there has never been another candidate as qualified to
serve as Mrs. Clinton, a first lady, senator and secretary of state, or as
unqualified as Mr. Trump, with no experience whatsoever.

Mrs. Clinton's concession speech brought tears to  my eyes. That's what a class
act she is! Mr. Trump is not fit to shine her shoes!

- Donna Johnson/Vallejo

Bring on the protests

It is seldom that I'm critical of a letter to this paper by my friend Ed
Rosenback, who usually writes such thoughtful letters, but the recent letter
captioned "Post-Election blues" is an exception. Perhaps he meant to refer to a
particular extreme example of post-election protest, but this is nowhere evident
in the text. If that's what he was referring to a different letter should have
been composed.

Saying that what disturbs him is " ...the high school student population rising
in protest against one of our country's hallmark traditions ..." seems to not
only criticize the protests, but the fact that "high school students" in
particular have been energized by this political event. Elections are important,
but are they sacred or immune to criticism or protest? I don't think so. It's
free speech. There is a reason the First Amendment is the "First" amendment.
It's important.

While I certainly don't condone violence or willful destruction of property,
protests against injustices or behavior have always been a vital part of our
democracy and I am heartened that complacency and resignation are not ruling the
day. It's good to see high school students getting politically active. I don't
see this as a case where ''... the education system has failed our youth" but a
surprising demonstration of their awareness of the world around them and the
desire to do something to make it better.

To, in this same letter, characterize protests against the election result as
"coup tactics" is a wild  exaggeration, bearing little, if any, resemblance to
an actual coup. To somehow try and shame those teachers involved for "lack of
knowledge of our nation's core processes" is a baseless accusation.

I remember marching with one of my teachers in opposition to the Vietnam War,
and feeling proud that we were taking a stand against what I still regard as an
unjust war. I certainly could never perceive my teacher as not teaching "truth"
(whatever that may mean). That accusation sounds like one best reserved for
educators who deny climate change, evolution or for other members of the flat
earth society.

I supported neither of the final two candidates, but to expect people to sit
idly by while a president-elect makes disparaging comments about women, ethnic
and other minorities and has one of his initial appointments praised by the Ku
Klux Klan, is unrealistic.

Violence? No!

Willful destruction of property? No!

Protests? Bring 'em on!

- Kevin M. Ingraham/Vallejo

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1198 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1612 words

ABSTRACT

Vallejo letters 11/25

FULL TEXT

This is why the

Electoral College works

I read Editor Jack F.K. Bungart's full page editorial, (Nov. 12, "What Trumps
win means to you"), on the presidential election and I have to admit a couple of
times I couldn't help but smile. Not because it was funny or inordinately wrong.
It's just his style of personal expression, his sharp wit and viciously cutting
turn of phrase. Aside from the occasional chuckle it left me with the uneasy
feeling of knowing that what he wrote is mostly unassailable. Very strong stuff.

With that said, a few quibbles. I quote, "Human decency was on the ballot and it
lost." Sorry Mr. Bungart that was a whiff. There was not a decent candidate on
the presidential ballot. Hillary Clinton, in her own way, is no less a scoundrel
or loose cannon than is Trump. You refer to her as "misguided" and further on
you call her "whip smart." As I see it to be whip smart is to admit that
"misguided" is just an excuse. It means she damn well knew better than to
intentionally thwart federal rules, regulations and the law. To dissemble is a
nice way to say lie. The woman has been dissembling for 30 years. She doesn't
seem capable of honest straight forward talk. To say "I made a mistake and I
take responsibility for it" is easy when you know you will pay no penalty and
suffer not even so much as a reprimand. That's not responsibility, it's an easy
dodge. I've said before, she is contemptible and she is contemptuous of
everything America stands for.

Like so many others, Mr. Bungart has criticized the Electoral College system
again and again I have to disagree. In my humble way let me try to explain again
why we have that system as opposed to a popular vote for the presidency. The
framers new that pure democracy with a popular vote cannot last. One of the many
problems with democracy is what they called the "Tyranny of the Majority." It
means that the minority never gets a say, and is soon politically marginalized.
The minority is not just a group of people it can also be a state or group of
states and this tyranny contributes to the failure of the system. It's one of
the many reasons why the framers chose a Representative Republic and the
Electoral College system. Ironic isn't it that the actors in the Broadway play
"Hamilton" try to shame Vice President Elect Pence when the protagonist of their
story is the very person most responsible for the Electoral College.

If you insist on a popular vote you have one already. You get it in every
county, in every district and every state. With that vote you choose who your
electors (representatives) will support. Those electors were appointed by your
popularly elected state representatives.

Take a look at the red and blue maps by state and by county and you will see
that Republicans won 30 of the 50 states. You will also see the stark imbalance
in how the popular vote was disbursed among the states. Geographically the
Republican red far outweighs the Democrat blue. The vast majority of the
Democratic votes are clustered in the largest cities and on the east and west
coasts .Find it here: "Maps of the 2016 US presidential election results
University of Michigan." Being a university they have people working over time
trying to discredit the very maps they display. They came up with something they
call a cartogram that looks more like an infrared satellite picture of a wind
storm than a map. When the voodoo gets to deep I get suspicious. At any rate
looking at these maps might make it a little easier to understand the the
meaning of a "tyranny of the majority."

There's another map I've already lost that shows California voted blue top to
bottom but only on the western third to one half of the state. The whole eastern
side voted red. Chances are you didn't even notice it on the Vallejo ballot but
on the instate section there was one single Republican on the entire ballot. I
didn't know him and can't even remember his name I but voted for him anyway and
X'd out the entire rest of the ballot. Where's the fun in only getting to choose
between Democrat No. 1 and Democrat No. 2? It occurred to me that my vote might
have been historical. I may never get to vote for a California Republican again
as long as I live.

It could soon be that no Republican will ever grace the Solano ballot again. Why
is that? It's because the Democrat majority and a popular vote gave us an open
primary with Proposition 14 in 2010 which inshrined it in the Sate Constitution
that only the top two vote getters make the ballot regardless of party, making
it virtually certain that Democrats will soon, if not already, have a super
majority. That will take away the Republicans last remaining vestige of a
political voice, which was to stop tax increases without a proposition voted on
by the electorate. By the time you read this it could well be that the
California Republican delegation has been rendered completely irrelevant. If you
pay attention to details like that you may get a hint of what a "tyranny of the
majority" is. It means you get your way without effort and I am left without a
word to say. It means that we in the minority have lost our right to political
speech. We have lost our right to assemble and put up a candidate for state
office. And with that we have lost our right to participate. And so it is that
we Republicans may never get our rights back because we in California are now
living under a "tyranny of the majority" that could last a hundred years. This
is not conjecture, it is fact.

Cal Thomas just re-iterated what I have been saying for a while now. Since 2010,
the Republican Party has been steadily increasing its power across the country.
It's not just a ground swell; it's a powerful movement of anti-Obama,
anti-Democrat, anti-socialist sentiment of historical proportions. It is an
extraordinary phenomenon. We now have complete control of 30 states and at least
half the power in most of the others. We have the House of Representatives and
the Senate. We have the presidency, and soon, very soon, we could conceivably
have the Supreme Court locked in for decades into the future. It is a
repudiation of mammoth proportions of Obama and everything he's ever done. The
Democrats have control in only about five misguided states, including California
and New York.

One might say it is conceivable there could one day be, as has happened in
California a "Tyranny of the Majority" on a national level. But that could never
happen as long as the Republican system and Electoral College produced by the
framers remain in place. They protect the rights of all legitimate parties to
choose candidates and put them on the national ballot.

If it should happen that the National Democratic Party once again begins to pay
attention to all the people instead of their special interest groups and
socialist ambitions they could once again rise to prominence without the
subterfuge of a popular vote. If nothing else, I feel confident that the
Republican Party would never try to install a "Tyranny of the Majority" and I
also feel confident that the Democrats would it in a heart beat.

- Jack King

Vallejo


Our great Symphony

I hesitate to talk about The Vallejo Symphony for fear there will be no seats
available at the next performance. Yet I must declare the Vallejo Symphony is
the jewel in the crown of all our city's treasures. How a far-flung backwater
burg like ours managed to pull this off is beyond me, and tells me there's more
to Vallejo than what meets the eye.

In my opinion The Vallejo Symphony Orchestra can stand proudly among the best in
the world. On Oct. 30, our new musical director/conductor, Marc Taddei,
performed magnificently, as did the brilliant orchestra under his baton.

For the opening performance of the season, Mr. Taddei's first on the podium for
us, he brought in pianist Sara Davis Buechner, whose electrifying rendition of
the Prokofiev Piano Concerto #3 was so powerful she could have whipped all the
forces of evil in the world. She bounced and pounced all over the keyboard like
a madwoman, yet in perfect control and mastery of her art. It was pure power and
emotion. Not only did Ms. Buechner leap out of her seat while she played, we in
the audience were propelled out of ours as well, unable to contain ourselves
during her explosive performance.

We also heard superb performances of Haydn's Symphony No. 6, and Sibelius's
Symphony No. 5, as the salutation to Vallejo from Mr. Taddei, in an
unforgettable afternoon of great, thrilling music.

I was an usher during the reign of David Ramadanoff, the previous conductor,
because I had a friend who had a friend connected to that also wonderful
conductor. Many Sunday matinee performances, not only did I enjoy taking
tickets, handing out programs, and chatting up fellow music-lovers, I got to sit
in on the concert for free. How I'd love that job back again.

One more thing:  We need to give our magnificent Vallejo Symphony a proper
concert hall.

- Carol Pearlman

Vallejo

Writing us

Letters to the Times-Herald must contain the first and last name of the letter
writer, as well as contact information to reach the letter writer. The contact
information will not be published by the Times-Herald.

All letters are subject to editing for clarity, subject and length.

The Times-Herald encourages letters to be sent via email. Those letters are more
likely to be published in a timely fashion.

Letters can be emailed to opinion@timesheraldonline.com, or sent via mail to:
Letters, Vallejo Times-Herald, 420 Virginia Street, Suite 2A, Vallejo, CA,
94590.

For more information, contact Times-Herald Editor Jack F.K. Bungart at
jbungart@timesheraldonline.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1199 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Trump's latest lie designed to distract

BYLINE: Rex Huppke

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 772 words

ABSTRACT

Huppke column 11/30

FULL TEXT

President-elect Donald Trump is a narrative arsonist, a firebug who puts tweets
to tinder and ignites flaming controversies that lure our eyes from things he
doesn't want us to see.

And it seems our presidential pyromaniac has struck again.

On Sunday, the man who will soon lead this country tweeted a lie - a big, fiery
one. It read: "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I
won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."

That statement is based on nothing. Actually, it's based on less than nothing.
Its origin is, roughly, this: A nobody Republican with zero credibility or
evidence tweeted that 3 million people voted illegally; a conspiracy theory
website reported on that tweet, taking it as fact; the president-elect, in need
of a distraction, tweeted that information as fact with no citation, not that a
citation would have made it any less false.

Let's pause for a moment and consider the staggering level of irresponsibility
Trump showed in tweeting that lie. It's akin to: My crazy uncle told me the
world is flat; I reported that on my blog; the president of the United States
then declared the world flat and banned boats so nobody would sail off the edge
of the Earth.

Let's ignore that extremely stupid fire and look at the things Trump the Twitter
arsonist was trying to get us to ignore:

o He won the electoral college (not by a landslide) but lost the popular vote by
more than 2 million votes and counting. That's painful for him because he never
lets himself believe he has lost anything, and that vote disparity is now being
highlighted by state ballot recounts spearheaded, oddly enough, by Green Party
candidate Jill Stein.

The man who spent a good part of the presidential campaign claiming the election
was rigged is now appalled at the idea of people checking to make sure it
wasn't. And to distract us from his popular vote loss and the possibility a
recount could lessen the scope of his victory, he's saying recounts are a waste
of time AND claiming that millions of people voted illegally. (One would think
that claim about illegal voters would necessitate a nationwide recount, but we
no longer inhabit a country where things make sense.)

The takeaway here is this: Ignore Trump's illegal-voter tweet and remind him at
every turn that he lost the popular vote and by no means enters office with a
mandate.

o Evidence continues to mount of global business ties that create conflicts of
interest for Trump as president. A sweeping New York Times investigation
published Sunday found: "Mr. Trump's companies have business operations in at
least 20 countries, with a particular focus on the developing world, including
outposts in nations like India, Indonesia and Uruguay, according to a New York
Times analysis of his presidential campaign financial disclosures. What's more,
the true extent of Mr. Trump's global financial entanglements is unclear, since
he has refused to release his tax returns and has not made public a list of his
lenders."

This web of potential conflicts "could create a running source of controversy
for Mr. Trump, as well as tensions between his priorities as president and the
needs and objectives of his companies." Beyond that, Trump's new hotel in
Washington, D.C., is already highlighting itself as a destination for foreign
diplomats and Trump's daughter Ivanka, who helps run the Trump Organization, sat
in on several recent meetings with Trump and foreign leaders. There are also
reports that the Secret Service may spend several million dollars a year renting
space in Trump Tower, taxpayer money that would go straight into Trump's
business.

Add it up and you have conflicts and the potential for self-enrichment out the
wazoo.

o As Trump continues to fill out his Cabinet, concerns abound. Aside from
picking as his right-hand man a guy who ran a white nationalist website, Trump
has chosen an anti-public-education activist whose family has contributed
sizably to anti-LGBT organizations as his secretary of education.

Those three items are just a few of the things Trump doesn't want you to focus
on, and that's why he took to Twitter on Sunday and tweeted a lie that would
easily irritate people who think it's important to discern between truth and
absurdity.

There is reason to be irritated - and maybe even terrified - by the soon-to-be
president of the most powerful country in the world sharing false information
that draws the legitimacy of our electoral process into question.

It's just a fire lit to hypnotize us, set by an arsonist who knows how to burn a
narrative to the ground.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1200 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

It's past time to ditch the Electoral College

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 685 words

ABSTRACT

Guest edit 11/23

FULL TEXT

After the second election in 16 years in which the winner of the national
popular vote will be denied the presidency, talk has resurfaced about the
shortcomings of the Electoral College, the convoluted system by which our chief
executive is actually chosen. It is the product of an 18th century compromise
forged over issues that no longer apply, on assumptions about the wisdom of the
average person we no longer hold, and it has not worked the way it was intended.

But abolishing it through a constitutional amendment is generally considered a
non-starter - it would require either a two-thirds vote of both chambers of
Congress or a constitutional convention called by two-thirds of state
legislatures just to propose such an amendment, and then it would need to be
approved by three-fourths of the states. The chances that three-fourths of the
states would be upset about the Electoral College at any given time are slim;
it's theoretically possible for a candidate to win the presidency with just 11
big states, but it would require an extremely odd electoral coalition.

There is another way, though. Ten states plus Washington, D.C., have enacted
legislation that could lead to a system that leaves the Electoral College intact
but ensures that it deliver the presidency to the popular vote winner. This
national compact stipulates that as soon as states comprising a majority of the
Electoral College - 270 votes - sign on, each will award its electoral votes to
the winner of the national popular vote. The Constitution allows states to
allocate their electors as they choose - the winner-take-all system is not in
the Constitution, and Maine and Nebraska have already abandoned it, choosing to
split their electoral votes based on who wins in each congressional district.

There are good reasons beyond sour grapes to advocate for a change. Leaders of
the National Popular Vote movement point to the disproportionate attention
presidential candidates pay to a handful of states during the election - and
after. According to NPV's research, battleground states get more federal grants,
more federal disaster declarations and more waivers from certain federal
regulations. But the biggest reason to ditch the Electoral College is that it
violates the principle that each American voter should have an equal say in
deciding who is president. Here's why:

Each state gets a number of Electoral College votes equal to its total
representation in Congress - both its representatives and its senators. But
because each state gets two senators, no matter its size, voters in the smallest
states have disproportionate influence over the outcome. On average, each of the
538 electoral votes should represent just under 600,000 people. But in some
places, it takes less than half that to determine an electoral vote. It's not
just Republican-leaning states that are so advantaged; Vermont, Washington,
D.C., and Rhode Island all make the list, and Delaware isn't far behind.
Meanwhile, it takes substantially more people than it should to swing an
electoral vote in some other states - as much as 20 percent more than it should.

Notwithstanding the fact that President-elect Donald Trump called the Electoral
College "a disaster for democracy" in a 2012 election night tweet (he evidently
thought at the time that Mitt Romney would win the popular vote and lose the
Electoral College, though he wound up losing both), we don't expect Republicans
to take up the cause until one of their nominees suffers the fate of Clinton and
Al Gore. It's only a matter of time. Had John Kerry convinced 59,301 George W.
Bush voters in Ohio to support him instead, he would have taken the presidency
in 2004 despite losing the popular vote by 3 million.

This is no way to pick a president, and we can fix it. A petition on change.org
calling for members of the Electoral College to vote for Clinton rather than
Trump got more than 2 million signatures in under 36 hours, but if people really
want change, they should lobby their state legislators to support the Electoral
College compact.

- The Baltimore Sun

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1201 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Trump's 'news' source: Alien lizards and voter fraud

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 803 words

ABSTRACT

Milbank column 12/1

FULL TEXT


"Report: Three Million Votes in Presidential Election Cast by Illegal Aliens;
Trump may have won popular vote."

- Infowars, website of leading conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, Nov. 14.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."

- Donald Trump, president-elect of the United States, Nov. 27.

WASHINGTON >>  We learned last week that President-elect Donald Trump has been
turning away his intelligence briefers, leaving the tedious task of learning
about national-security threats to his understudy, Vice President-elect Mike
Pence.

So where is Trump getting his information? Well, now we know. On Sunday, Trump
tweeted out the wild allegations that "millions of people" voted illegally for
his opponent. He also tweeted that there was "serious voter fraud" in three
states that went for Hillary Clinton, "so why isn't the media reporting on
this?"

The media wasn't reporting on this because it's a load of hooey. But one "media"
outlet has been "reporting" the groundless allegations, and it's one that Trump
relied on frequently during the campaign: Alex Jones's Infowars, the radio and
Internet home of the grassy-knoll crowd.

For two weeks before Trump made his allegations, Jones had been alleging this
very thing, saying there was a "wall of fraud" and that at least "five states
were stolen" by Clinton. Jones alleged that Trump "clearly won the popular
vote," asserting that in addition to 3 million illegal immigrants who voted, 4
million dead people voted.

Trump, with his mixture of the incendiary and the fanciful, invented the
"Infowars campaign." Now comes the Infowars presidency. Let's see what else is
being promoted by the outlet where the next leader of the free world gets his
news:

"Pizzagate Is Real: Something Is Going On, But What?" Infowars reports,
asserting that "high-level Washington D.C. predatory pedophiles" are
communicating via "symbols" on the menu of Comet Ping Pong, a pizza place in
Northwest Washington. "Notice the symbol of the ping-pong paddles and its clever
resemblance to the FBI documents' symbol for child love," Infowars reports.

Right!     The well-informed consumers of Infowars also know that at the moment
the "Whereabouts of Julian Assange Remain a Mystery" since the election and
WikiLeaks wants people "to stop requesting proof of life."

Infowars listeners and readers know, as well, that requested recounts in three
states are an attempt by the Green Party "to push the 2016 election into the
hands of Congress." Somewhat contradictorily, this effort also means there's a
"Democrat Counter-Coup Against Trump in Progress." Jones warns that this is "a
real threat and [George] Soros is behind it," part of a "soft civil war."

Jones's rants would be funny if the soon-to-be most powerful man in the world
didn't rely so heavily on them.

Trump, the New York Times reported, called Jones after the election to thank him
for his support. Trump has been on the Jones show and praised the host's
"amazing reputation"; Trump adviser Roger Stone is an Infowars regular.

Trump has echoed Jones's allegations that climate change is a myth, that
President Obama wasn't born in America, that Muslims in New Jersey celebrated on
9/11, that Antonin Scalia was murdered, that Clinton used drugs before a debate,
that "globalists" (read: prominent Jews) are trying to take over America, that
vaccines cause autism and that Ted Cruz's father was involved in the John F.
Kennedy assassination. Jones, who says he advises Trump privately, boasts that
Trump repeats his ideas "word for word."

As the Right Wing Watch website has documented, Jones has alleged that the U.S.
government was responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks (Jones posted an old video
Monday in which Trump appeared to suggest that aircraft alone couldn't have
brought down the towers), the Oklahoma City bombings and mass shootings such as
Sandy Hook. Jones has said that "chemtrails" from airplanes spread a "weaponized
flu," that juice boxes are part of a chemical-warfare operation to make children
gay, that Justin Bieber is brainwashing children to create an American police
state, that Obama murdered publisher Andrew Breitbart, that an "alien force not
of this world" is targeting Trump, that intergalactic shape-shifting reptilian
humanoids secretly control the world, and, of course, that water fluoridation is
mass mind control.

Rest assured, fellow Americans: President Trump will deliver us from fluoride,
juice boxes, outer-space reptiles and the 7 million dead people and foreigners
who vote in our elections. Less clear is whether he'll protect us from the real
threats his intelligence briefers would tell him about - if he'd let them in.

- Follow Dana Milbank on Twitter, @Milbank.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1202 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times-Herald (California)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Rep Xavier Becerra nominated for job as state attorney general

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 808 words

ABSTRACT

Gov. Jerry Brown has tapped U.S. Rep. Xavier Becerra to succeed Kamala Harris as
California attorney general

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> California Gov. Jerry Brown on Thursday named U.S. Rep. Xavier
Becerra as state attorney general, succeeding newly elected U.S. Sen. Kamala
Harris and ending speculation about whether he would appoint a caretaker or an
ambitious Democrat for the second-highest statewide office.

Becerra, 58, a rising star in the party who served as a high-profile Latino
surrogate for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's campaign this
year. He was widely discussed as a potential cabinet appointee if Clinton won.

But with the election of Trump and a Republican sweep of both houses of
Congress, his 24-year tenure in the House is no longer as appealing. In the
attorney general's position, Becerra could serve through 2018 then seek another
eight years after that.

Trump's election upended his path to influence, said Thad Kousser, Political
Science Department chair at the University of California, San Diego.

"Washington, DC is now red territory, so if he wants to have an impact on
policy, California's the place to do it," Kousser said.

The Democratic governor noted Becerra's service in Congress, in the state
Legislature and as a deputy attorney general. The nomination is subject to
confirmation by the state Assembly and Senate. It will be officially submitted
after Harris resigns.

"I'm confident he will be a champion for all Californians and help our state
aggressively combat climate change," the Democratic governor said in a
statement.

If confirmed, Becerra will be the state's chief law enforcement officer and will
oversee the legal defenses of California's aggressive efforts to control
greenhouse gases. He'll also preside over likely skirmishes between the state's
liberal lawmakers and the administration of Republican President-elect Donald
Trump.

Becerra said in a statement that Brown had presented him with an opportunity he
can't refuse.

"As a former deputy attorney general, I relished the chance to be our state's
chief law enforcement officer to protect consumers, advance criminal justice
reform and, of course, keep our families safe," Becerra said. He noted that he
traveled to 15 states as he campaigned for congressional candidates in
battleground districts this year.

"But California right now is ahead of the country when it comes to clean energy,
commonsense treatment of immigrants, real health security and so much more," he
said.

As Democratic caucus chairman, Becerra is the highest ranking Latino in
Congress, where he has served since 1992. Brown's announcement noted that he was
the first in his family to graduate from college, obtaining both bachelor of
arts and law degrees from Stanford University.

Kousser noted that going to battle in the courtroom with the Trump
administration over climate change and immigration will raise his profile both
in California and nationally, which would help him if he wants to run for
governor in 2018 or to replace Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., when she decides
to retire.

It also gives him a leg up against other rising Latino officials with ambition
for higher office, including state Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon, D-Los
Angeles, and former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa.

Becerra's replacement in his solidly Democratic district in Los Angeles would be
picked via special election. His expected departure immediately set off
speculation about his potential replacement. Former Assembly Speaker John Perez
quickly announced he would seek the seat representing areas including downtown,
Boyle Heights, Chinatown and Highland Park.

Becerra is likely to face easy confirmation in the Democratically controlled
Legislature. De Leon and Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon, D-Paramount, both
released effusive statements praising Becerra as someone who will stand up to
Washington and defend the rights of Californians.

Michael Rushford, president of the conservative Criminal Justice Legal
Foundation, doesn't expect major changes in criminal justice policy with Becerra
atop the state Department of Justice.

"The governor has done a lot of things with regards to criminal justice policy
that I suspect he wants to have kept in place," Rushford said. "So I would be
surprised if you were going to get an attorney general who was going to look at
his policies unfavorably."

Becerra was a deputy attorney general for three years before he began his
political career in 1990. The experience should help ensure a smooth transition,
said Steve Wagstaffe, San Mateo County's top prosecutor and president of the
California District Attorneys Association.

"I look forward to meeting him soon and establishing a relationship with him and
the district attorneys," Wagstaffe said in a statement.

Associated Press writer Don Thompson contributed.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1203 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times-Standard (California)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Trump scorned Roberts but he could need his support

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 313 words

ABSTRACT

A Northern California sheriff said a woman missing for three weeks was "very
emotional" after a passing driver found her on the side of a rural road

FULL TEXT

Washington >> It's a safe bet that when Chief Justice John Roberts and Donald
Trump meet outside the Capitol on Inauguration Day, Roberts won't ask why Trump
said terrible things about him.

"Disgraceful" and "an absolute disaster" were some of the ways Trump
characterized Roberts as he campaigned.

Come Jan. 20, Roberts will administer the oath of office, the two men will shake
hands and Roberts will recede into the background. For now.

Roberts and the rest of the Supreme Court probably will be called on to review
Trump's major undertakings as president. Trump could need Roberts' vote on
matters ranging from immigration to health care to environmental regulations.


Will it matter that in the course of the campaign, Trump had harsh words for the
leader of the federal judiciary? The pointed criticism of a justice by name was
only one in a long list of unusual aspects of Trump's campaign for the
presidency.

"Justice Roberts really let us down," Trump told an audience in Aiken, South
Carolina, last December. "What he did with Obamacare was disgraceful, and I
think he did that because he wanted to be popular inside the Beltway," he added,
referring to greater Washington.

A month later, in an interview with ABC News' George Stephanopoulos, Trump again
referred to the health care decisions when he said, "Justice Roberts turned out
to be an absolute disaster."

Roberts was savaged by several Republican presidential candidates, an unusual
spectacle given Roberts' appointment by a Republican president and his generally
conservative record. Roberts has not responded to the criticism. Among the
justices, Ruth Bader Ginsburg made plain her dislike of Trump in July, then
walked back her comments a few days later.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1204 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times-Standard (California)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

An accomplishment of bipartisan unity in a deep red state

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 521 words

ABSTRACT

My Word

FULL TEXT

A couple years ago, two South Dakota men on opposite ends of the political
spectrum got into a nasty fight over marriage equality. But after one offered
the other an olive branch, they wound up forming a bipartisan alliance that won
big this election year.

Their story offers important lessons for our divided country.

It all began with a Twitter feud between Steve Hildebrand, a gay former Obama
campaign adviser, and Steve Hickey, a conservative pastor and former Republican
state legislator. To defuse the tension, Hickey decided to invite Hildebrand out
for coffee.

Eventually, the two men realized they had something in common: a deep concern
about poverty and homelessness. They also agreed that the payday loan industry
in their state was making these problems much worse.

Payday lenders give customers short-term cash advances, typically for two weeks,
against their paycheck or Social Security check. But most borrowers can't pay
back the loan when it comes due - which is exactly what the lenders want.

According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the majority of all
payday loans are renewed so many times that borrowers end up paying more in fees
than they originally borrowed. In South Dakota, the average interest rate on
such short-term loans is 574 percent.

In a show of bipartisan unity, Hickey and Hildebrand resolved to work together
to crack down on these loan sharks. They formed a coalition, South Dakotans for
Responsible Lending, to take the issue of predatory lending directly to the
voters. Their goal: a 36 percent interest rate cap on short-term payday loans.

The coalition's first step was to marshal a volunteer army of all ages, income
levels, and political stripes to collect almost 20,000 signatures to get the
proposal on the ballot. To build support, they held prayer vigils, gave talks at
churches and Rotary and Lions clubs, and wrote letters to the editors of
newspapers across the state. For Halloween, they painted pumpkins with their
campaign slogans.

On Nov. 8, despite being outspent 16 to 1 by industry opponents, the coalition
won a crushing victory. More than three-quarters of South Dakota voters
supported the rate cap measure.

Reflecting on their success, Pastor Hickey said, "Knowing that today in America
we have reached perhaps the apex of hyper-partisanship, our efforts here of
working together across the party lines is really a breath of fresh air, and we
believe this is the way forward."

Hickey also made clear that the coalition's fight isn't over. They're worried
the loan sharks may pursue new legal tricks to keep exploiting the poor, and
they're looking for ways to make credit more affordable for low-income South
Dakotans. One option they're looking into is using a fraction of the state's
reserves to guarantee affordable loans through credit unions.

But even though there's more work to be done, this coalition's bipartisan ballot
box success is an inspiring example of how we can still make progress in our
polarized nation.

Sarah Anderson directs the Global Economy Project and co-edits Inequality.org at
the Institute for Policy Studies.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1205 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times-Standard (California)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Get an IUD while you can, before Obamacare dies

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 635 words

ABSTRACT

Another view

FULL TEXT

As soon as the presidential election results were announced, alarm bells went
off for anyone who cares about reproductive rights.

Lawmakers around the country have been moving for years to restrict abortion
rights. But for millions of women who've taken proactive steps to prevent
unplanned pregnancy, there's a much more direct threat: the next administration
coming after their birth control.

As organizations like Planned Parenthood put out urgent calls for resources and
support, ordinary women are asking: What do we do if we no longer have access to
affordable birth control next year?

For many, the answer could be to get an intrauterine device, or IUD.

These tiny devices last either three or five years, depending on the model.
Shaped like a small "T" with a thin string attached, they feature a variety of
combinations of hormones and come with a near-perfect guarantee to prevent
pregnancy.

After a short procedure, the IUD stays put for years without any muss or fuss.
No hustling to take a pill at the same precise time each day, no anxiety about
missing a dose, and no worries about getting a full period each month.

In short, the IUD is a great option for many women - and particularly attractive
in the face of a possible near future without birth control access.

Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, most insurance plans are required to cover
the cost of prescription birth control, including IUDs. That means no co-pays,
deductibles, or out-of-pocket costs. Unfortunately, Republicans have repeatedly
tried to gut the Affordable Care Act, and they'll have an ally in the next
president.

If Congress dumps Obamacare, some 20 million people - including over 250,000
people who have signed up since the election - could be left without the means
to access proper healthcare, including reproductive healthcare.

Meanwhile, other lawmakers are attempting to deny women the right to birth
control point-blank. Laws like the proposed Russell Amendment would let doctors,
pharmaceutical employees, and other health care providers claim a religious
right to refuse to provide birth control. Employers could even fire workers for
using birth control on their own dime.

With their reproductive rights at stake, it's no wonder many women are hedging
their bets right now and looking for a long-term birth control option.

Ninety-nine percent of women of reproductive age have used some form of birth
control.

That includes women of all religious, ethnic, and cultural backgrounds, from all
walks of life, and with all sorts of life experiences. From young women with
medical conditions that affect their hormones to teenagers to mothers of
multiple children, we run the gamut.

It's not just cis-gender women - transgender, agender, and intersex people use
birth control, too.

And we aren't about to let anyone take our access to affordable birth control
away.

"The pill" has been around since the 1960s - and so, I was surprised to learn,
has the IUD. We are the many, the proud, and we're not willing to go back to the
time when back-alley abortions, coat hangers, and turpentine were acceptable
methods of reproductive healthcare in the United States.

We're not willing to go back to a time when women didn't have control over their
own bodies.

If you're considering using a long-term birth control method and have any
questions, ask me - or anyone else in your community who may know the answers.
Or check out bedsider.org, an online resource recommended by women's healthcare
providers. There are millions of us out there happy to reach out.

If, on the other hand, you seek to deny us the right to choose what to do with
our bodies, remember: We have a voice, and we will not be silent. History is on
our side.

Olivia Alperstein is the Communications and Policy Associate of Progressive
Congress.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1206 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times-Standard (California)

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday

Electoral College: Not perfect, but still an excellent system

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 745 words

ABSTRACT

Another view

FULL TEXT

In one of the more bizarre twists in this incredibly bizarre year, Donald Trump
now questions the legitimacy of ballots cast in an election that he won.

Faced with a recount in Michigan that he opposes, but that is almost certain to
confirm his victory, Trump has once again taken to Twitter to rail about a
"rigged" system - though apparently it's rigged only in the states he lost.

What he really seems to be responding to is the fact that, though he is the
president-elect, Hillary Clinton bested him by more than 2 million votes in the
popular tally. That fact has Democrats responding as well, arguing that the
Electoral College system should, as Sen. Barbara Boxer proposes, be abolished,
or as Sen. Bernie Sanders proposes, be re-examined.

We beg to differ.

Suppose presidential candidates engaged in a national election instead of one
focused on the outcome in each state: The airwaves would be even more inundated
with ads in a campaign waged almost entirely in the media. As it is now,
candidates have to learn about and respond to what's going on in the vastly
diverse states of the nation, and in their vastly diverse populations.

It's no accident that the last time Congress debated abolishing the Electoral
College, after the nail-biter 1968 election, some of the strongest voices of
opposition came from the few African-American House members and from Jewish
organizations lobbying from the outside. Though Jews make up only 2 percent of
the American population, an insignificant number on a nationwide ballot, the
number climbs to 5 percent in all-important Florida - enough to swing the state.

That story is replicated in state after state with different groups.
African-Americans might be only 13 percent of the population, but their votes
gave Barack Obama his 2012 margin of victory in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and
Michigan. Georgia, now considered solidly Republican, might soon be in play
because of the 29 percent of the voters there who are black.

The growing political clout of Latinos has been much heralded, but they are
still only 12 percent of eligible voters nationwide. It's their strength in
states like Nevada and Colorado that made them a force to be reckoned with in
this election, a force that could turn Arizona and Texas from red to purple the
next time around.

That fluidity is another characteristic of the Electoral College system.
Battleground states in one or two campaign cycles can become safe states for one
party or the other in later contests.

Look at bright-blue California - it voted Democratic only once between 1952 and
1988. Or vivid-red West Virginia, which was one of the handful of states to go
for the Democratic nominee in 1980 and 1988. And Hillary Clinton's solid "blue
wall" crumbled this time around. The ups and downs of the system are such that
both parties have, at different times, been alleged to hold an "Electoral
College lock."

It's because of the Electoral College that shifting demographics result in
shifting outcomes. It's the ultimate defense against the "tyranny of the
majority" that the Founders feared. Designed to protect small states against
domination by large ones, it has come to protect smaller population groups from
larger ones.

That's not just true in terms of people, it's also true in terms of policy. Had
the 2016 campaign been waged only in the densely populated coastal states that
can determine the popular vote, would the aggrieved voices of the out-of-work
and out-of-sorts voters of the rust belt been heard? Donald Trump is right that
he paid attention to their pain while Hillary Clinton took those voters for
granted, ignoring them while focusing on turning out minorities and young
people.

In 2000, when Al Gore won the popular vote but lost the election,
then-senator-elect Clinton called for the abolition of the Electoral College,
adding: "We are a very different country than we were 200 years ago." That's
certainly true. But it's also true that as Alexander Hamilton wrote then of the
system devised to choose a president, "If the manner of it be not perfect, it is
at least excellent ... It was also particularly desirable to afford as little
opportunity as possible to tumult and disorder."

This year we've had enough tumult and disorder. We don't need to tinker with the
method of electing our presidents to give us more, even if the winner calls it a
"rigged system."

Steve and Cokie Roberts can be contacted by email at stevecokie@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1207 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times-Standard (California)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

How the media iced out Sanders, helped Trump

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 817 words

ABSTRACT

Another view

FULL TEXT

We hadn't seen Bernie Sanders in Philadelphia since last July, when he watched
his primary opponent, Hillary Clinton, win the Democratic Party's nomination.
Sanders joined the "Democracy Now!" news hour last week at the historic
Philadelphia Free Library for a wide-ranging discussion. "I am deeply concerned
about the future of American democracy," Sanders told the enthusiastic
standing-room-only crowd. Millions of Americans voted for Sanders in the
primaries. He transformed the 2016 U.S. presidential election, inspiring and
engaging people with a progressive vision for the future, with little help from
the media.

The networks have engaged in endless "mea culpas" in the election's aftermath,
contrite about their reliance on faulty polls. Rarely do you hear a news
personality on television admitting that they failed miserably in covering the
Sanders campaign. The U.S. media effectively iced out a major-party candidate
who consistently held the largest rallies, even without a media megaphone.

Donald Trump received blanket coverage. His every move, every tweet, almost all
his speeches were covered across the networks. The U.S. corporate media made
candidate Donald Trump. Estimates of the free airtime he received vary from $1
billion to as high as $3 billion.

What about Bernie Sanders? The Tyndall Report analyzed major-network campaign
coverage in 2015. In over 1,000 minutes of national broadcast television airtime
devoted to all the campaigns, Donald Trump received 327 minutes, or close to
one-third of all the campaign coverage. Bernie Sanders received just 20 minutes.
Hillary Clinton got 121 minutes of campaign coverage, six times the amount
Sanders received. "ABC World News Tonight" aired 81 minutes of reports on Donald
Trump, compared with just 20 seconds for Sanders.

I asked Sanders what he did to warrant a full 20 seconds of coverage on ABC, and
he threw his head back, laughing out loud. "We had the misfortune of actually
trying to talk about the problems facing America and providing real solutions,"
he said, offering his take on the media's failure. "Trump was tweeting out about
how ugly or horrible or disgusting or terrible his opponents were, in really
ugly terms. Perfect for the media. That is a great 12-second sound bite. But to
talk about why the middle class is in decline or why we have massive levels of
income and wealth inequality can't be done in 12 seconds. And second of all,
it's not something that they are, frankly, terribly interested in." While the
media may not have been interested in Sanders' message, the voters were. Despite
the media blackout, Sanders won 23 primary contests and 46 percent of the
pledged Democratic delegates.

After President Barack Obama leaves office, Sanders may well become the most
powerful Democrat in the country, even though he is not technically a Democrat,
but an independent socialist. His success has catapulted him into the Democratic
leadership of the Senate. "I accept this responsibility as outreach chair with a
lot of trepidation, but also with excitement. The current approach clearly is
not succeeding, and we need a new approach ... to create a 50-state strategy."
It is also why he is supporting Keith Ellison's candidacy to be chairperson of
the Democratic National Committee. Ellison is the co-chair of the Congressional
Progressive Caucus and also happens to be the first Muslim member of Congress.

Sanders cautions against maligning all Trump supporters. "It would be a tragic
mistake to believe that everybody who voted for Donald Trump is a 'deplorable.'
They're not. These are people who are disgusted, and they are angry at the
establishment. And the Democratic Party has not been clear enough, in my view,
about telling those people ... that we are on their side."

Bernie Sanders has transformed his campaign into a group called "Our
Revolution," to continue organizing. "Where we are now is in a difficult
moment," he summed up as our Philadelphia conversation was ending. "But
throughout history, serious people have fought back. ... Think about 120 years
ago. There were children working in factories, losing their fingers. People
fought back. They fought to create unions. Think about the women's movement.
Think about the civil-rights movement. Think about the gay-rights movement.
Think about the environmental. Think about all of the hurdles that those folks
had to overcome. ... Nobody in this room or in this country has a right to say
'I give up.' You've got to jump in and start fighting."

Bernie Sanders has spent his life fighting for progressive causes. As the world
braces for the Trump presidency, Sanders shows no signs of slowing down.

Amy Goodman is the host of "Democracy Now!," a daily international TV/radio news
hour. She is the co-author, with Denis Moynihan and David Goodman, of"Democracy
Now!: 20 Years Covering the Movements Changing America."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1208 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Oroville Mercury Register (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Elected leaders respond to uptick in hate crimes

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 376 words

ABSTRACT

State and local governments, elected leaders and others are responding to recent
reports of increases in hate crime following the presidential election

FULL TEXT

HARTFORD, Conn. >> Amid reports of hate crimes and hate speech following the
election of Republican Donald Trump as president, there have been calls from
some governments and elected officials for stronger anti-hate crime laws, a
crackdown on offenders and hotlines for citizens to report harassment and
intimidation.

Here are some of the steps taken across the U.S. since Election Day on Nov. 8.

Bias hotlines

A hotline created by Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey's office last
week to report incidents of harassment or intimidation of minority groups in the
state already has logged hundreds of calls.

The Democrat said her office created the hotline in response to bias-motivated
threats around the country, including some in Massachusetts.

Meanwhile, Delaware Attorney General Matt Denn, a Democrat, has urged residents
of his state who believe they are victims of threats based on their personal
characteristics to call the state's Department of Justice. Hotlines to report
hate crimes also have been created in recent days in San Francisco and Maryland.
Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh said complaints will be referred to local
law enforcement for further investigation when appropriate.

Law changes

Democratic U.S. Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has called for tougher
federal legislation against hate crimes. He announced Monday he plans to submit
legislation that would increase penalties for those convicted of hate crimes and
allow those who report hate crimes to do so anonymously, among other things.

Stepped-up investigations

In New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo has directed state police to create a special
unit to investigate reports of hate crimes. Cuomo, a Democrat, announced the
initiative Sunday, saying it's in response to what he called "ugly political
discourse" that didn't end with the election.

Cuomo said he also plans to push for legislation that expands protections under
New York's human rights law to all students statewide.

He also wants to create the nation's first emergency legal defense fund to
ensure all immigrants have access to representation.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Oroville Mercury Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1209 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Group submits secession petition

BYLINE: Juliet Williams; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words

ABSTRACT

A group calling for California to secede from the United States has submitted a
new petition asking voters to start the process

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> A group calling for California to secede from the United States
submitted a proposed petition Monday seeking a ballot measure that would strip
the state constitution of language that says California is an inseparable part
of the nation.

The Yes California Independence Campaign hopes to put a question on the November
2018 ballot authorizing a vote on independence in spring 2019.

The group proposed the secession idea more than two years ago, but the so-called
"CalExit" movement gained serious traction on social media after Republican
Donald Trump won the presidential election.

Group Vice President Marcus Ruiz Evans said the organization now has 15,000
Twitter followers, 30,000 Facebook followers and 13,000 volunteers who have
signed up to collect signatures for the effort.

He said the election of Trump proved proponents' point that working within the
current electoral system is not sufficient to generate serious change.

The attorney general's office will review the request and submit language for a
title and summary that would allow the group to begin collecting signatures for
an initial referendum.

The final results of the election earlier this month will determine how many
signatures the

group will need to place its measure on the 2018 ballot.

The U.S. Constitution does not provide for state secession.Experts say the only
way to legally secede would be to change the federal Constitution, which
requires the approval of Congress and 38 states.

But Ruiz said if 55 percent of voters approved a referendum on the issue,
proponents hope to make their case to the United Nations under its treaty on
self-determination. He said that threshold would constitute an internationally
recognized threshold requiring the governor to apply to the U.N. for "the
Republic of California" to become a member of the U.N.

"We know that you don't just vote and that it happens. This would be to start
the conversation," he said. "You have to have something where you say this is
what the public wants."

The group tried unsuccessfully to put several initiatives on the ballot this
year, including a proposal to declare California a separate nation, to rename
the governor the "president" of California, and to fly the California state flag
atop the United States flag. Those signature-gathering efforts fizzled.

Repeated attempts to create a 51st state in Northern California, named the State
of Jefferson, have also failed. That movement generally draws more conservative
supporters who are dissatisfied with California's dominance by Democrats.

Still, Ruiz said State of Jefferson supporters are welcome in the CalExit
movement, which would also shift many powers to county-level governments that he
said are more in line with local residents' wishes.

The group moved up its original plan to ask voters to approve a referendum in
2020 because of the interest following Trump's election over Hillary Clinton,
Ruiz said.

Backers expect to begin collecting signatures after Trump's January
inauguration.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1210 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

'Black America Since MLK' looks at changing African American lives

BYLINE: Rob Lowman; Southern California News Group

SECTION: G,G; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 969 words

ABSTRACT

Feature on "and still I Rise" about black history in the last 50 years with
henry louis gates interview

FULL TEXT

Perhaps it's fortunate that PBS's "Black America Since MLK: And Still I Rise" -
a four-hour documentary that examines the past 50 years of African American
history - is airing a week after the presidential election.

Racial issues were evident throughout the race to the White House, as well as
amid conversations about Black Lives Matter.

"You know, frankly, I'm surprised at the pushback," says Harvard Professor Henry
Louis Gates Jr. when asked about the name of the Black Lives Matter movement.

"It's such a simple, catchy phrase. On the face of it, who could argue with it?
But it has disturbed some people."

Gates was behind 2013's Emmy-winning "The African Americans: Many Rivers To
Cross," which looked at black history from slavery up to the election of
President Barack Obama.

The historian says he was casting about for a follow-up to "Rivers" when Ken
Chenault, the CEO of American Express, suggested the concept for "And Still I
Rise."

"I was 15 in 1965, and Ken and I are about the same age," notes Gates. "He said,
'For you, it's our lifetime, but the last 50 years is really history.' "

So the conceit of the new documentary is: What would you tell civil-rights
leader Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. about what has happened to African Americans
over the last five decades?

"You'd say there's a black man in the White House, right? And that's good. And
he'd say, 'Wow. Was there a revolution?' " jokes the professor.

But Gates - paraphrasing Dickens - believes that for blacks, it is the best of
times and the worst of times in America. He sees affirmative action as helping
to create a larger middle and upper class for African Americans since 1970. Yet
"the child poverty rate in the black community is almost exactly the same" as it
was when King was murdered in 1968.

"Yes, symbolically, we have a beautiful black family in the White House, but, on
the other hand," he says, "a huge percentage of our people are still caught in a
cycle of poverty, victims of violence, black on black violence and violence
visited by the police. All of that is the complicated truth."

Gates, himself, knows how lucky it is to be able to escape from poverty. He grew
up in West Virginia. His father worked in a paper mill and was a part-time
janitor, while his mother cleaned houses. He says in 1969 he got into Yale
because of affirmative action, and points out only six black men graduated from
the university in 1970.

His '73 class had 96 black men and women graduate, including Congresswoman
Sheila Jackson Lee from Houston, Kurt Schmoke, the first black mayor of
Baltimore, and Ben Carson. Yes, the surgeon and politician.

While "And Still I Rise" digs into the rise of the black-power movement, urban
tensions and political triumphs and disappointments for African Americans, in
other ways it is a celebration of the influence of black culture.

Included are moments from Captain Kirk and Lieutenant Uhura's interracial kiss
in 1968 on TV's "Star Trek" to the hip-hop group De La Soul's first album in
1989. The documentary also goes into the popularity of rap, Michael Jackson and
Beyonce, the birth of Essence magazine, and the impact of TV shows like "Soul
Train," "The Flip Wilson Show" and "The Jeffersons," which featured African
Americans and were seen in the homes of people of all colors.

Gates stresses that there is no one story. "Because of affirmative action, some
of us took off up the socioeconomic scale in American society," says the
historian. "But each of us has in our own family people who went to jail. How do
you create a narrative that is not all negative and not all pie in the sky,
rosy, positive? How can you tell the complex truth of the last 50 years with
nuance and grace? That's what we tried to do."

In the documentary, Gates delves into the conflicts within the different black
movements, from the non-violent civil-rights marchers to gun-toting Black
Panthers. As a Yale student, he remembers, "There were all these black bullies
trying to tell me how to be black."

"There never has been one way to be black," he says, and the documentary gives
numerous examples of this.

One of the reason Gates wanted to do the documentary was to remind people of
events over the past 50 years that have been forgotten or overlooked.

"The great thing about Black History Month is that there's a Black History
Month. The bad thing about Black History Month is that it's a special isolated
month," the historian says. "The key, if you're me, is how you get the
curriculum integrated so that the black experience and the experience of other
minority peoples become integrated every day."

For "And Still I Rise" - which has a companion book (HarperCollins, $35,
illustrated) - Gates tried to create what he calls "the beauty-parlor or the
barbershop effect." It's when "black people are by themselves and they're
talking freely, without any censors so that the audience is overhearing their
conversation, when no one feels that they have to censor themselves."

You may consider that while viewing "And Still I Rise," which goes from the
tangled civil-rights movement of the past to the difficult and painful
complexities of the present.

"We all know that for so long in American history, black lives either didn't
matter at all or didn't matter as much as certain other people's lives," says
Gates.

He quotes 19th century African American minister Benjamin Mays, who said, "We
are interlaced and interwoven in a garment of destiny. We are all bound together
in one great humanity."

"You can see that that prefigured different lines and variations Dr. King would
later use. And I think that's at the heart of Black Lives Matter," says Gates.

Contact Rob Lowman at rlowman@scng.com or @RobLowman1 on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1211 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 708 words

ABSTRACT

Opinion planner

FULL TEXT

Will GOP have gumption    to stand up to Trump?

Mr. Trump's and his immediate family's continued pursuit of his personal
business interests with people from around the world will soon make Hillary
Clinton's emails look like a Sunday school teacher's mistake. He seems to lack
the desire to put public good above his personal gain.

Republican leaders now have come into power. Hopefully some of them will have
the gumption to stand up to the new president when he tramples on what has been
our country's norms for presidential behavior.

- Carolyn Rice, Carmel

Give Trump the chance      to pleasantly surprise us

It is becoming more and more difficult to read the Opinion page of The Herald
and, in particular, to read the editorial cartoon (the day after Thanksgiving
cartoon was particularly nasty). Donald Trump is about to become president of
our country. All we seem to be reading in The Herald these days is negatives
with respect to him.

Remember the old Beatles song, "Give Peace a Chance"? Can't we give Mr. Trump a
chance as well? He just may pleasantly surprise some of your readers.

- Joan Bizzozero, Monterey

Free use of certain terms a form of bigotry

Since the Nov. 8 presidential election, I have seen the following words bandied
freely by left-wing political columnists: racist, sexist, xenophobic,
misogynist. Remember the Salem witch trials, where innocent women were accused
and burned at the stake? Remember the "Red Scare" during the McCarthy era, where
many who were not guilty were blacklisted as communists? Aren't these good
examples of fear-mongering and bigotry?

I think The Monterey Herald should hold a moratorium on the words such as
racist, sexist, xenophobic. Words like these and especially random references to
the Ku Klux Klan are a form of bigotry. There must be a more graceful way of
transitioning from the old to the new after the most recent election than
resorting to name-calling, fear-mongering and bigotry.

- Carol Marquart, Pacific Grove

To the disrespectful secessionists, adios

To those who want California to secede from the Union, a short history lesson:
the last time the election of a president precipitated a secessionist movement
by the disgruntled losers - in 1861 - it didn't work out so well. Some advice:
free elections work like this: Take a vote, then everyone accepts the result,
win or lose. If you don't like the results, just shut up, and next time choose a
better candidate.

Since that procedure apparently doesn't appeal to you, I have a better proposal:
Just leave. That way you won't be saddled with the "humiliation" of accepting
the clearly (in your minds) neo-fascist election results, and we - meaning the
rest of California and the country - won't have to endure the ongoing
embarrassment of a bunch of disrespectful, disloyal, flag-burning, riotous
whiners.

Cheers ... and adios!

- Rich Saylor, Monterey, California, USA

Monterey's high-level CERT a national model

Nine years ago, when effects of the recession strained the Monterey city budget,
the then-fire chief and city manager decided to eliminate the Community
Emergency Response Team (CERT) program. Intent was to save overtime money paid
to firefighters managing and instructing the program. CERT was fading from years
of inattention by city officials.

CERT citizen volunteers stepped forward and took over the program. Instruction,
management and equipment outfitting of neighborhood containers was undertaken by
citizens. What emerged is today the premier CERT program in the Nation! Monterey
CERT is the only program featured in both Fire Engineering Magazine and
Emergency Management Magazine on "How to Start A CERT Program In Your
Community." Monterey CERT is now used as a model across America. This is because
of the very high level of service provided. More than a disaster response force,
CERT volunteers respond to storm emergencies, searches for missing persons,
coastal incidents where someone has been swept out to sea, and a host of other
emergencies.

The City Council of Monterey deserves credit for funding tools equipment to keep
CERT modernized.

CERT training is offered in March and is free. Interested citizens may send an
email to training@montereycert.org

- Demetrius A. Kastros, Monterey

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1212 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

California vote shows Electoral College's value

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 648 words

ABSTRACT

For all papers

FULL TEXT

The never-ending, dispiriting presidential election continues to slog on

The latest low points are the recount effort in Michigan, Wisconsin and
Pennsylvania spearheaded by failed Green Party nominee Jill Stein and the
inevitable tweets by President-elect Donald Trump falsely asserting millions of
people voted illegally.

The other post-election issue, mostly in California, swirls about the Electoral
College, a controversial method for choosing presidents around since the United
States was founded.

Trump won the White House by prevailing in the Electoral College even though
Hillary Clinton got at least 2.2 million more votes nationally and was the
overwhelming choice in the nation's most populous state.

This isn't the first time Democrats have found reason to question the Electoral
College/popular-vote split - who can forget Al Gore's loss to George W. Bush in
2000?

So is the Electoral College manifestly unfair and even undemocratic? Should it
be abolished? After all, even Trump has previously said he believed the election
should be by popular vote.

No.

Here's why: Clinton won California by more than 4 million votes. That means
Trump won the other 49 states by about 1.8 million votes. He also won 32 of 50
states, giving him 306 Electoral College votes, compared to Clinton's 232.

If Clinton had been elected by popular vote (she won 48.1 percent of the vote to
Trump's 46.5 percent), her victory would have been directly attributable to
California. This one-state landslide is rare in our history. Even though Gore
beat Bush by nearly 544,000 votes, he won four states by vote margins larger
than that plurality. Go back to 1888 for an apt comparison. That's when Grover
Cleveland received 90,000 more votes than opponent Benjamin Harrison - and his
margin was built up in a single state, Texas, where he won by more than 146,000
votes.

Seen through this lens, the Electoral College's purpose becomes clearer: to
prevent someone from being elected president by rolling up a huge margin in one
big state - perhaps his or her home state.

Yes, this means a vote by a Wyoming resident, for instance, weigh 3.6 times more
than Californian's. That's the reason smaller states will never agree to change
the Constitution and abolish the Electoral College - although there is a
movement to have a group of states, representing at least 270 Electoral College
votes, to award all their electoral votes to the winner of the national popular
vote. This would not require a change in the Constitution, since states can
allocate electoral votes however they choose.

We have the Electoral College because the proponents of the Constitution wanted
a way to reassure skeptical states, including Southern slave states,  their
voices would be preserved in a system with a strong federal government.

The Federalists also wanted to avoid rule of the mob and demagoguery - the
prospect of the tyranny of the masses. Russia and Iran are democracies. But
America is a republic. Our Constitution elevates the primacy of the law as laid
out in the Constitution. In a democracy, people could vote to deny rights to
minorities, outlaw unpopular forms of speech or confiscate someone's property.
That can't happen here - good news for people who fear what Trump may attempt as
president - because our system values liberty over popularity.

To be fair to Trump, the 2016 campaign was waged on the Electoral College battle
front. Both Trump and Clinton would have campaigned differently (and in
California) had the result hinged on the popular vote. We simply don't know if
Trump could have won by popular vote if that had been the standard.

We get that Californians are angry and disillusioned over Trump's implausible
victory and feel their votes don't count.

But try to conjure up what people in the 32 states that went for Trump would be
feeling today had California elected Clinton.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1213 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Rep. Xavier Becerra nominated for state attorney general

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 711 words

ABSTRACT

Gov. Jerry Brown has tapped U.S. Rep. Xavier Becerra to succeed Kamala Harris as
California attorney general

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> California Gov. Jerry Brown on Thursday named U.S. Rep. Xavier
Becerra as state attorney general, succeeding newly elected U.S. Sen. Kamala
Harris and ending speculation about whether he would appoint a caretaker or an
ambitious Democrat for the second-highest statewide office.

Becerra, 58, a rising star in the party who served as a high-profile Latino
surrogate for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's campaign this
year. He was widely discussed as a potential cabinet appointee if Clinton won.

But with the election of Trump and a Republican sweep of both houses of
Congress, his 24-year tenure in the House is no longer as appealing. In the
attorney general's position, Becerra could serve through 2018 then seek another
eight years after that.

Trump's election upended his path to influence, said Thad Kousser, Political
Science Department chair at the University of California, San Diego.

"Washington, DC is now red territory, so if he wants to have an impact on
policy, California's the place to do it," Kousser said.

The Democratic governor noted Becerra's service in Congress, in the state
Legislature and as a deputy attorney general. The nomination is subject to
confirmation by the state Assembly and Senate. It will be officially submitted
after Harris resigns.

"I'm confident he will be a champion for all Californians and help our state
aggressively combat climate change," the Democratic governor said in a
statement.

If confirmed, Becerra will be the state's chief law enforcement officer and will
oversee the legal defenses of California's aggressive efforts to control
greenhouse gases. He'll also preside over likely skirmishes between the state's
liberal lawmakers and the administration of Republican President-elect Donald
Trump.

Becerra said in a statement that Brown had presented him with an opportunity he
can't refuse.

"As a former deputy attorney general, I relished the chance to be our state's
chief law enforcement officer to protect consumers, advance criminal justice
reform and, of course, keep our families safe," Becerra said. He noted that he
traveled to 15 states as he campaigned for congressional candidates in
battleground districts this year.

"But California right now is ahead of the country when it comes to clean energy,
commonsense treatment of immigrants, real health security and so much more," he
said.

As Democratic caucus chairman, Becerra is the highest ranking Latino in
Congress, where he has served since 1992. Brown's announcement noted that he was
the first in his family to graduate from college, obtaining both bachelor of
arts and law degrees from Stanford University.

Kousser noted that going to battle in the courtroom with the Trump
administration over climate change and immigration will raise his profile both
in California and nationally, which would help him if he wants to run for
governor in 2018 or to replace Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., when she decides
to retire.

It also gives him a leg up against other rising Latino officials with ambition
for higher office, including state Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de Leon, D-Los
Angeles, and former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa.

Becerra's replacement in his solidly Democratic district in Los Angeles would be
picked via special election. His expected departure immediately set off
speculation about his potential replacement. Former Assembly Speaker John Perez
quickly announced he would seek the seat representing areas including downtown,
Boyle Heights, Chinatown and Highland Park.

Becerra is likely to face easy confirmation in the Democratically controlled
Legislature. De Leon and Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon, D-Paramount, both
released effusive statements praising Becerra as someone who will stand up to
Washington and defend the rights of Californians.

Michael Rushford, president of the conservative Criminal Justice Legal
Foundation, doesn't expect major changes in criminal justice policy with Becerra
atop the state Department of Justice.

"The governor has done a lot of things with regards to criminal justice policy
that I suspect he wants to have kept in place," Rushford said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1214 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday

How the media iced out Bernie

BYLINE: Amy Goodman and Denis Moynihan; Democracy Now!

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 808 words

ABSTRACT

Opinion planning package

FULL TEXT

We hadn't seen Bernie Sanders in Philadelphia since last July, when he watched
his primary opponent, Hillary Clinton, win the Democratic Party's nomination.
Sanders joined the "Democracy Now!" news hour this week at the historic
Philadelphia Free Library for a wide-ranging discussion. "I am deeply concerned
about the future of American democracy," Sanders told the enthusiastic
standing-room-only crowd. Millions of Americans voted for Sanders in the
primaries. He transformed the 2016 U.S. presidential election, inspiring and
engaging people with a progressive vision for the future, with little help from
the media.

The networks have engaged in endless "mea culpas" in the election's aftermath,
contrite about their reliance on faulty polls. Rarely do you hear a news
personality on television admitting that they failed miserably in covering the
Sanders campaign. The U.S. media effectively iced out a major-party candidate
who consistently held the largest rallies, even without a media megaphone.

Donald Trump received blanket coverage. His every move, every tweet, almost all
his speeches were covered across the networks. The U.S. corporate media made
candidate Donald Trump. Estimates of the free airtime he received vary from $1
billion to as high as $3 billion.

What about Bernie Sanders? The Tyndall Report analyzed major-network campaign
coverage in 2015. In over 1,000 minutes of national broadcast television airtime
devoted to all the campaigns, Donald Trump received 327 minutes, or close to
one-third of all the campaign coverage. Bernie Sanders received just 20 minutes.
Hillary Clinton got 121 minutes of campaign coverage, six times the amount
Sanders received. "ABC World News Tonight" aired 81 minutes of reports on Donald
Trump, compared with just 20 seconds for Sanders.

I asked Sanders what he did to warrant a full 20 seconds of coverage on ABC, and
he threw his head back, laughing out loud. "We had the misfortune of actually
trying to talk about the problems facing America and providing real solutions,"
he said, offering his take on the media's failure. "Trump was tweeting out about
how ugly or horrible or disgusting or terrible his opponents were, in really
ugly terms. Perfect for the media. That is a great 12-second sound bite. But to
talk about why the middle class is in decline or why we have massive levels of
income and wealth inequality can't be done in 12 seconds. And second of all,
it's not something that they are, frankly, terribly interested in." While the
media may not have been interested in Sanders' message, the voters were. Despite
the media blackout, Sanders won 23 primary contests and 46 percent of the
pledged Democratic delegates.

After President Barack Obama leaves office, Sanders may well become the most
powerful Democrat in the country, even though he is not technically a Democrat,
but an independent socialist. His success has catapulted him into the Democratic
leadership of the Senate. "I accept this responsibility as outreach chair with a
lot of trepidation, but also with excitement. The current approach clearly is
not succeeding, and we need a new approach ... to create a 50-state strategy.
That means we start playing ball in states that the Democrats have conceded
decades ago. But more importantly, we create a kind of grass-roots party, where
the most important people in the party are not just wealthy campaign
contributors, but working people, young people, people in the middle class." It
is also why he is supporting Keith Ellison's candidacy to be chairperson of the
Democratic National Committee. Ellison is the co-chair of the Congressional
Progressive Caucus and also happens to be the first Muslim member of Congress.
Sanders cautions against maligning all Trump supporters. "It would be a tragic
mistake to believe that everybody who voted for Donald Trump is a 'deplorable.'
They're not. These are people who are disgusted, and they are angry at the
establishment. And the Democratic Party has not been clear enough, in my view,
about telling those people ... that we are on their side."

Bernie Sanders has transformed his campaign into a group called "Our
Revolution," to continue organizing. "Where we are now is in a difficult
moment," he summed up as our Philadelphia conversation was ending. "But
throughout history, serious people have fought back. ... Think about 120 years
ago. There were children working in factories, losing their fingers. People
fought back. They fought to create unions. Think about the women's movement.
Think about the civil-rights movement. Think about the gay-rights movement.
Think about the environmental. Think about all of the hurdles that those folks
had to overcome. ... Nobody in this room or in this country has a right to say
'I give up.' You've got to jump in and start fighting."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1215 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

WHITE NATIONALISTS FACE PROTESTS

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: NATIONAL; NATIONAL BRIEFS; Pg. A-18

LENGTH: 491 words


WASHINGTON - White nationalists from around the country gathered Saturday in
downtown Washington to bask in Donald Trump's victory and celebrate what many
proclaimed as a coming-out moment in their mission to turn back multiculturalism
and eventually create a whites-only "ethno-state" in North America.

"There's an energy in this city that I've never felt before," said Gerald
Martin, 64, a retired teacher from Dallas who was one of nearly 275 attendees of
the annual conference put on by the National Policy Institute, whose president,
Richard Spencer, coined the term alt-right and is a vocal proponent of what Mr.
Spencer refers to as "white identity."

But they met fierce resistance during their two-day gathering, with protesters
disrupting an NPI dinner Friday and crowding the pavement outside the conference
Saturday. TRUMP ADVISER CRITICIZED

Ken Blackwell, tapped last week by President-elect Donald Trump to head domestic
policy during the businessman's transition to the White House, has made
anti-LGBT statements for years. Among them: Homosexuality is a sin, and gay
people can be rehabilitated.

The former Cincinnati mayor has long endorsed a controversial mental health
practice known as conversion therapy or reparative therapy. The goal is to cure
a person of his or her homosexuality, and in the case of transgender people, to
reaffirm the gender into which they were born.

In the past, treatments have included everything from inducing vomiting to using
mild electric shock while patients viewed homoerotic images. Since the 1990s,
however, the therapy has been denounced by many medical and scientific societies
and even outlawed in a handful of states. In 2015, the Obama administration
expressed disapproval of the practice.

While Mr. Blackwell will be overseeing a wide swath of domestic issues facing
the new administration, one big question facing the LGBT community is whether a
Trump administration will promote the discredited therapy. VILSACK WARNS
DEMOCRATS

WASHINGTON -- Agriculture Secretary and former Iowa Gov. Tom Vilsack has a
message for Democrats: Don't take the rural vote for granted.

"If the Democrats are interested in winning statewide races, winning
presidential races, winning gubernatorial races, winning congressional seats,
they can't get crushed in rural areas," Mr. Vilsack said in an interview. "And
what's really frustrating is, they've got a pretty good message, if they
delivered it."

Mr. Vilsack's ties with Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton made him
a finalist for her vice presidential pick this year, although she ultimately
selected Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia. ATMS DEPOSIT MICROBES

Whenever you withdraw money from an automated teller machine, the ATM deposits
microbes onto you.

Researchers in New York City swabbed the keypads of 66 ATMs. They found that
ATMs are mostly covered in microbes from human skin, similar to the ones found
in bathrooms, on pillowcases and on televisions.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1216 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

CITIES MAY SOAR, BUT DEMS NEED THE WHOLE NATION

BYLINE: Brian O'Neill

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 781 words


Some 3,000 Americans came together in Pittsburgh last week to talk about our
divides.

That was not the only item on the agenda but the four-day conference of the
National League of Cities did follow on heels of perhaps the most divisive
presidential election since 1860. So it was the elephant (and not the expected
donkey) in the room as the conference opened.

Thursday afternoon's welcoming ceremony at the David L. Lawrence Convention
Center began with a patriotic medley that included the singing of "God Bless
America" by uniformed Pittsburgh Police Officer Ronald Hough. Mayor Bill Peduto
then tapped the usual touchstones of steel, family, sports and rebirth in his
opening address, holding off on discussing the election until he called upon his
"inner Mr. Rogers'' and donned a sweater.

"If we work together we can do anything," he said. "The 21st century is the
century of cities."

That may be, but Mr. Peduto might have added that this year the small places
kicked big cities' collective butt.

I love my country and the latest only-in-America story I can't wait to tell the
grandkids is that the guy who kept saying the election was rigged won our
presidency with fewer votes than the loser. With results still being counted
Friday, it appeared Hillary Clinton had a million or more votes than Donald
Trump. For that she gets some lovely parting gifts and thanks for playing our
game.

It will work this way for the second time in 16 years because our Electoral
College makes it as important to carry places as people. Just as the U.S. Senate
gives outsized clout to small states - California with 38.3 million people gets
two votes as does Wyoming with 583,000 - the Electoral College makes votes in
some states more crucial than in others.

Republicans in California and Democrats in Wyoming who cast their presidential
votes had no hope of backing the winner, which is true in every dependable
landslide state. It's not true in Pennsylvania, where voters had important work
to do.

Allegheny County voters went for Mrs. Clinton by a 105,529-vote margin and
Philadelphia had her by more than 557,000 votes. That helped her to a - wait for
it - 57,570-vote loss to Mr. Trump, who will get all 20 electoral votes.

You've undoubtedly seen the map of Pennsylvania counties that shows the blue
Democratic islands in a sea of Republican red, a map that echoes the U.S. map in
that way. Mr. Trump's Michigan and Wisconsin victories were even closer than in
Pennsylvania, with much the same urban/rural split. Had those three states gone
Ms.Clinton's way, she'd have won.

It's time to rethink an old Democratic dismissal of the hinterlands' importance,
"trees don't vote," because this time there was real bite behind all that bark.
It's not time to rethink the Electoral College, though some are tilting at that
windmill.

On Tuesday, Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., introduced a bill to abolish the
system via constitutional amendment, legislation that will be dead on arrival
because the red states are in charge. Democratic energies would be better spent
trying figure out why their economic message - when they bothered to make one -
gained no traction outside of big cities.

"These two candidates were talking to two different countries. They really
were," Candy Crowley, former chief political correspondent for CNN, said
Thursday at the City Summit.

There are racial and class divisions within cities, too, a fact on the mind of
more than one conference speaker. But the cultural divide between city and
country has become a chasm. As Richard Shearer of the Brookings Institution
wrote in an election post-mortem, cities have boomed in the past eight years
while rural areas have fewer jobs. Meantime, small metro areas are by and large
stuck in neutral. The anger is palpable.

The subtext of calls for Electoral College reform is a way for Democrats to not
need "those people" anymore. That's not just bad political strategy; it's bad
governance. A lot of those people were not long ago the party's core
constituency. Writing them off seems like a scene from "The Hunger Games," with
coddled urban elites turning their backs to the small towns and countryside.

OK, sure, that's overly dramatic. Plenty of Pittsburghers have hardships greater
than the people in the 56 Pennsylvania counties that Mr. Trump won. But I just
watched him win with the false hope of bringing back coal and steel jobs in a
big way. That crock sold because Democrats spent so much time rallying their
base in the cities that Mr. Trump had an audience pretty much to himself.

The city of Pittsburgh has been trotting out a new slogan, "If it's not for all,
it's not for us." Democrats ought to take that show on the road.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Brian O'Neill: boneill@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1947 or on Twitter
@brotheroneill /

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1217 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

POPULAR VOTE MOVEMENT CORRECTS AN UNFAIR OUTCOME

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 247 words


In the wake of the 2016 presidential election, many are wondering why the
candidate who received the most votes did not win. Just as happened in the 2000
election cycle, the Electoral College was responsible for tilting the outcome in
favor of the loser of the popular vote. So why do we continue to have a system
that effectively disenfranchises hundreds of thousands of voters?

Hillary Clinton is leading in the popular vote by well over a million votes.
When the loser's margin of victory in the popular vote is this high, isn't it
time to reconsider how we conduct our most important election?

Some have said the system is rigged, and it seems it is, but not in the way
Donald Trump has claimed. Is there any doubt that he would be crying foul if the
results were reversed?

We can eliminate the effect of the Electoral College without doing away with it
(that would require a constitutional amendment and is not likely to happen). The
National Popular Vote movement has made progress in 11 states where legislation
has been enacted that requires all Electoral College votes in those states to be
cast for the winner of the national popular vote. However, the law will not take
effect until enough states sign on so that a minimum of 270 electoral votes are
mandated by the law. To date the 11 states account for 165 electoral votes, so
we have a way to go.

Let us urge our Pennsylvania legislators to pass National Popular Vote
legislation as soon as possible.

TONY CAPRIOTTI

Penn Hills

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1218 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CMU PROF LANDS SPOT ON TRUMP TRANSITION TEAM

BYLINE: Bill Schackner, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-5

LENGTH: 433 words


A Carnegie Mellon University associate professor and expert in international
relations, U.S. foreign policy and political strategy has been named to
President-elect Donald J. Trump's transition team for the National Security
Council.

Kiron Skinner is founding director of the Institute for Politics and Strategy in
CMU's Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences. She joined the
university in 1999 and is a distinguished fellow of CMU's CyLab.

Reached Tuesday evening, she declined to comment on her appointment.

The institute is a focus for research as well as undergraduate and graduate
education and endeavors in political science, international relations, national
security policy and grand strategy across the university, CMU officials said in
announcing her appointment to the Trump team.

Beyond campus, she is a special adviser to Adm. John Richardson, the chief of
naval operations, is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and is a life
director of the Atlantic Council.

She also is a research fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution on
War, Revolution and Peace, which, according to its website, seeks to "promote
economic opportunity and prosperity, while securing and safeguarding peace for
America and all mankind."

Inspired by President Herbert Hoover, a Republican, the institution has long
received support from the Sarah Scaife Foundation. Last year, the foundation,
according to its tax filings, donated $300,000 to the institution for research
programs and fellowship support, and $50,000 for an unspecified "book project."

In her role with the Hoover Institution, Ms. Skinner in 2010 interviewed Richard
Mellon Scaife, the late Tribune-Review publisher who directed the foundation to
support conservative causes. The interview was quoted earlier this year in legal
filings in a lawsuit filed by Mr. Scaife's daughter and son against three
trustees accused of failing to preserve a trust fund.

From 2001-2007, Ms. Skinner was a U.S. Defense Department Defense Policy Board
adviser on the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. She was a foreign policy surrogate for
the Bush-Cheney 2004 re-election campaign and a senior foreign policy adviser to
Newt Gingrich for his presidential bid in 2011-12, according to biographical
information on CMU's website.

Two New York Times bestsellers, "Reagan, In His Own Hand" and "Reagan, A Life In
Letters," were co-written by Ms. Skinner .

Ms. Skinner holds master's and doctoral degrees in political science and
international relations from Harvard University. She has undergraduate degrees
from Spelman College and Sacramento City College.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bill Schackner: bschackner@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1977 and on Twitter:
@BschacknerPG. Staff writer Rich Lord contributed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1219 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

COLLEGE LEADERS URGE PROTECTION OF UNDOCUMENTED STUDENTS

BYLINE: Bill Schackner, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: EDUCATION; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 645 words


More than 250 college and university presidents nationally and in Pennsylvania
have signed a statement hoping to save a program that has enabled children
brought to the U.S. illegally to avoid deportation while pursuing work and
education.

The potential fate of those undocumented immigrant students has roiled campuses
where fears are running high that President-elect Donald Trump, who campaigned
on deporting illegal immigrants, will undo the 4-year-old Obama administration
initiative once he takes office in January.

The Pennsylvania signers include Penn State University president Eric Barron,
University of Pittsburgh chancellor Patrick Gallagher, Carnegie Mellon
University president Subra Suresh, University of Pennsylvania president Amy
Gutmann, Temple University president Richard Englert, Allegheny College
president Richard Mullen, and Dickinson College president Neil Weissman.

Campus leaders say the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program has
produced "exemplary student scholars and student leaders" who have benefited the
institutions and the communities where they live.

Signers of the statement say the students have pursued instruction and work in
areas from education and high-tech to law and medicine.

"They are actively contributing to their local communities and economies," the
statement says.

"To our country's leaders we say that DACA should be upheld, continued and
expanded," the statement continued. "We are prepared to meet with you to present
our case. This is both a moral imperative and a national necessity.

"America needs talent -and these students, who have been raised and educated in
the United States, are already part of our national community," the letter
added. "They represent what is best about America, and as scholars and leaders
they are essential to the future."

The presidents called on their colleagues as well as business, civic, religious
and nonprofit sectors to add their voices to those trying to preserve and expand
DACA.

The DACA program has become a flash point in a broader debate about the nation's
borders that drove rhetoric and emotion during the presidential election.

President Barack Obama created DACA through an executive order in 2012. Under
the program, children who arrived in the U.S. before their 16th birthday meeting
residency and other requirements have been able to come forward, and in doing
so, could receive temporary, renewable work permits and the prospect of pursuing
their education without risk of deportation.

Its supporters point to estimates of more than 700,000 people who have benefited
from DACA. But Republicans and others unhappy with the executive order have
argued that the effect was to shield undocumented individuals and hamper efforts
to make the nation's borders less porous.

Mr. Trump during his campaign suggested he would undo Mr. Obama's executive
orders. In an interview days after the election, the president-elect vowed to
move ahead quickly with deporting 2 million to 3 million undocumented
immigrants, with a focus on criminals.

The statement on DACA was organized by David Oxtoby, president of Pomona College
in Claremont, Calif. It began circulating Monday.

Another statement, this one an open letter from college administrators, faculty
and staff, was also circulating this week, the online publication Inside Higher
Ed reported Wednesday. It said the open letter to Mr. Trump was organized by
Herbert Medina, a mathematics professor and associate dean at Loyola Marymount
University in Los Angeles.

The letter with more than 850 signatures says in part: "It pains us to think of
denying the possibility of employment and exposing to deportation some of the
students who sit in our classrooms, who play on our sports teams, who lead our
student governments, and who are siblings, classmates, friends, co-workers,
boyfriends/girlfriends to millions of U.S. citizens."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bill Schackner: bschackner@post-gazette.com, 412-263-1977 and on Twitter:
@BschacknerPG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1220 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GREEN PARTY CANDIDATE SEEKS ELECTION RECOUNT;
SAYS 'ANOMALIES' NEED TO BE PROBED

BYLINE: Chris Potter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 812 words


Third-party candidates pride themselves on overturning the bipartisan consensus.
And Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein may yet overturn the consensus
that this excruciating presidential election is finally over.

No need to thank her.

"[T]he unexpected results of the election and reported anomalies need to be
investigated before the 2016 presidential election is certified," Ms. Stein said
in a Wednesday statement seeking a recount of votes in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin
and Michigan. "We deserve elections we can trust."

It's not that Ms. Stein believes she won. Her campaign is seeking a recount
because "we do not have confidence in the integrity of the election results,"
said campaign manager David Cobb in a Facebook address Wednesday. "Cyber experts
have shown us that it is absolutely possible to hack these systems. ... It is
our hope that we are able to literally get our hands on [voting machines] to
find out whether or not we can have confidence in the reported results."

The campaign launched an online fundraising effort seeking $2.5 million by
Friday evening, money needed to post bonds necessary for the recounts. Nearly
$340,000 in donations had been logged by 5:30 p.m. Wednesday. The deadline for
contesting Pennsylvania's election results is Monday.

The effort follows a report, published in New York magazine Tuesday, that some
election lawyers and computer experts suspect election returns "may have been
manipulated or hacked" in the three Rust Belt states. In some areas, they
detected a pattern in which Democrat Hillary Clinton fared worse in precincts
where votes were recorded electronically, without a paper trail to confirm the
digital record is correct.

Two-thirds of Pennsylvania counties, including vote-rich Allegheny and
Philadelphia, use such paper-free machines. Experts have demonstrated such
machines can be hacked even without being hooked up to the internet. As the
Post-Gazette reported in September, many have worried that Pennsylvania, a
crucial battleground, could be especially prone to hacking fears as a result.

Adding to such fears this year have been widely publicized hacks of Democratic
Party email servers, and apparent efforts to penetrate state voter-registration
databases.

The basis for this week's concerns, however, appear to be purely circumstantial.
One of the experts in the magazine report, University of Michigan computer
scientist J. Alex Halderman, wrote separately that machines had "probably not"
been hacked, but the only way to be sure was "to closely examine the available
physical evidence."

Mr. Halderman and others reportedly urged the Clinton campaign to press for
recounts this week. The campaign has so far declined, and Democrats seemed
dubious about the notion on Wednesday.

"If there were something to do here, there are a lot of us who would be jumping
on it," said Adam Bonin, a Philadelphia election law attorney who represents
Democrats.

Mr. Bonin said that while every election has "little hitches and glitches, I
haven't seen anything which would cause me to question the results." Nor, he
said, "have I ever seen evidence that would lead me to call the machines into
question."

"I'm sympathetic to the notion that we should move to a system where there is a
more auditable balloting process," he said. But "You can't just go on a fishing
expedition. You have to have allegations of specific fraud, or machines that
didn't accept votes."

On Facebook, Mr. Cobb told followers that "there were some pretty significant
anomalies" on Election Day, although he didn't identify where they took place.

Carl Romanelli, the Stein campaign's Pennsylvania field coordinator, said he
wasn't aware of such problems here.

"I haven't spoken with party representatives about complaints that may have come
in," he said. But "voter integrity is one of our huge issues, and the Stein
campaign appears to be taking the lead on making sure the public can trust its
elections."

"I don't want anyone to get the impression that this is about affecting the
outcome of the election," he added.

It's highly unlikely that a recount would do so in Pennsylvania, where
President-elect Donald Trump leads by roughly 70,000 votes. When the Greens
joined a challenge of Ohio's 2004 presidential results, the recount narrowed
George W. Bush's win by only about 300 votes.

But Audrey Glickman, the secretary-treasurer of VoteAllegheny, said a challenge
would be "a good thing." The group has long pressed for the adoption of "optical
scanner" machines, in which voters mark preferences on ballots that are scanned
by machine and retained for verification.

"We're glad people are focusing on this," Ms. Glickman said. "At the same time,
I worry that if Trump comes out as the winner, people will say these concerns
aren't real. We need to have a ballot that the voter knows is correct and
stuffed into a box, where it can be checked."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chris Potter: cpotter@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2533.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jill Stein

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1221 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SOME WILL FIND POLITICAL TALK UNAPPETIZING THIS THANKSGIVING

BYLINE: Gary Rotstein, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1084 words


Driving the rural lane to his sister's farmhouse in Butler County today for the
annual family Thanksgiving gathering, Jeff Swensen won't be surprised to feel a
little uneasy.

The liberal Democrat, a 52-year-old photojournalist, has had some raw political
rows in recent years with Republican members of his family, mainly his parents.
With the wounds from the polarizing Trump-Clinton presidential campaign still
fresh, any such talk could be more troublesome than usual. After all, sharp
cutting knives will be within reach.

"Usually I'm telling myself I need to keep my mouth shut and not be baited into
an argument, which is easily done with me," says Mr. Swensen, who nonetheless
loves his family and will be driving from Oakmont to join them with his
similarly liberal wife and three children.

His father, Harold Swensen, 83, one of Pittsburgh's most prominent surgeons
before his retirement, won't mind a bit if politics comes up before, during or
after dinner. He grew up in a household where debates - or frequent arguments -
over such topics were common. The Fox Chapel Republican who voted for Donald
Trump, though he wasn't happy about his party's choice of nominee, considers any
such talk one more opportunity to talk some sense into his son.

"I don't understand how someone could grow up in this house and have some of the
ideas he has," Dr. Swensen laments. "But I'm not troubled by getting angry or
upset or having a difference of opinion - it's almost a rush to me."

Whether the Swensen clan's version of talking turkey this year will include
talking Trump - and how that will go, if so - was still unclear at this writing.
Theirs is hardly the only household likely to wrestle with the issue during the
post-election holidays of 2016. How many will give thanks today, after all, for
experiencing what feels like one of the most divisive periods in America since
the Vietnam War?

Members of some families will simply skip participation in the traditional meal
because they've been hardcore Trump or Clinton supporters who can't fathom being
among relatives on the other side who outnumber them. A colleague at this
newspaper even volunteered to work a holiday shift so as not to share meat and
potatoes - and discussion - with a parent of opposing ideology.

Some families may set boundaries that put the recent election off-limits,
preferring a less contentious topic to discuss with mouths full: Who's to blame
in the Brad Pitt-Angelina Jolie divorce? Did Bob Dylan really deserve a Nobel
Prize for literature? Why, dear God, are the Steelers so bad against bad teams
(except the Browns)?

If the talk turns political, that will undoubtedly trouble some people, Dr.
Swensen aside. A post-election ABC News survey found 14 percent of respondents
would find political discourse over Thanksgiving dinner "very" stressful and
another 24 percent "somewhat" stressful. In a separate online survey, conducted
by the Meyocks marketing firm, 30 percent of people wanted the topic to be taboo
today.

If the latter is true, would it be best for a host or hostess to just make a
preemptive declaration to guests that politics is off the table? Um, probably
not, according to some advisers.

"Pre-empting conflict, in my experience, brings on more conflict," said Lynn
MacBeth, a Pittsburgh lawyer and family mediator. "I would be careful about
saying anything at the outset, because that's just going to open up the wound."

She added, however, that people should anticipate the recent election as a
likely topic of discussion. Planning comments that can be delivered in an
unemotional way, so as to avoid arguing, would be a good idea, Ms. MacBeth said.
If attendees can come up with a good political joke or other means of keeping
the conversation light, so much the better.

"I would say the No. 1 rule is to remember your values, and you value your loved
ones not because of their political beliefs but because of the love you have and
the important relationships you have that overlap," she said. "There's just too
much at stake to put politics first."

Erin Yanacek and her husband will be hosting their parents at their Greenfield
home in their first Thanksgiving as newlyweds. Her father will be the lone
Republican, she says, and with some hard-core leftists present, he and she know
it will be best not to make the election results part of the family discourse.

"I'm definitely the only one allowed to talk to my dad about politics," she
said, and father and daughter are likely to do that privately on a jog together.
If anyone goes rogue at dinner by mentioning the names Trump or Clinton, said
Ms. Yanacek, 27, "the rest of us would quickly spring into action to change the
subject."

Arthur Zipris, a psychologist and family therapist with the Western Pennsylvania
Family Center, said each family's ability to handle the topic will vary
according to how mature its members have been in the past in handling
disagreements. Every family has tensions, he said, and relatives have to learn
how to maintain composure without lashing out during disagreements.

"The way to help the family is not by trying to get people to have the correct
opinion, but to manage yourself," Mr. Zipris said.

Like Ms. MacBeth, he advised thinking ahead about the right thing to say if the
election comes up, to help avoid the kind of offensive or defensive statements
that might create long-lasting scars.

"People don't go into battle without going to boot camp first, or go to the
Olympics without training, so prepare yourself on how to be more thoughtful,"
Mr. Zipris said.

Jeff Swensen, who spent a good portion of this year photographing Trump rallies
despite a visceral dislike for the president-elect, said he's so aghast at some
of his relatives' politics - and at how emotional he believes some of them get -
that it makes it hard to maintain his own composure. He believes the family may
do some "walking on eggshells" when gathering today.

"We could have World War III, or everybody could just laugh and say, 'Thank
heavens we're all together,' " he said.

His father acknowledges he himself gets "probably a little more touchy" with
Jeff than with other people, because "you're less likely to put up with certain
things with a son."

But Dr. Swensen also believes everyone will manage just fine at the annual
gathering in Middlesex today, based on their mutual caring. And in the unlikely
event that cutlery enters the equation, the longtime orthopedic surgeon just
chuckled at the prospect: "Oh, I'd have the advantage there."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Gary Rotstein: grotstein@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1255.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeff Swensen photo: The Swensen family, when they celebrated
Thanksgiving together in 2013.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1222 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

HILLARY, FIGHT ON

BYLINE: CHARLES J. CARR, Robinson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 124 words


There is now credible information regarding the election results. Evidence of
cybercorruption involving Pennsylvania, Ohio and Wisconsin is substantial. This
would throw the results of the 2016 presidential election into dispute.

I understand that to contest the results of the presidential election would
bring this country into a state of chaos, and normally I would see this as worse
than the conflict we are trying to resolve. But in this case it is not. The
stakes are too high. We have recent history in the George W. Bush era that when
the questionable election was not disputed, in both 2000 and 2004 elections,
disaster ensued.

I implore Hillary Clinton to fight. Fight for this country, for our future, for
the environment, for our children.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1223 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

GREEN PARTY CANDIDATE RAISES  $5 MILLION FOR ELECTION RECOUNT;
STEIN TO TEST SYSTEMS IN PA., WIS., MICH.

BYLINE: Mari A. Schaefer, The Philadelphia Inquirer

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-4

LENGTH: 420 words


PHILADELPHIA - Green Party candidate Jill Stein has raised more than $5 million
to pursue an election recount in three key Rust Belt states won by Donald Trump.

The money is needed to post bonds for recounts in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and
Michigan. The deadline for contesting Pennsylvania's election results is Monday.

Ms. Stein's campaign launched an online fundraising effort Wednesday seeking
$2.5 million and then $4.5 million to cover the costs of recounts in Wisconsin
and Pennsylvania. A new goal of $7 million was set Friday to cover Michigan.

The effort follows a report, published in New York Magazine on Tuesday, that
some election lawyers and computer experts suspect election returns "may have
been manipulated or hacked" in those three states.

In some areas, they detected a pattern in which Democrat Hillary Clinton fared
worse in precincts where votes were recorded electronically, without a paper
trail to confirm the digital record is correct, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
reported.

The party is now seeking volunteers to take part in verifying the results in
Pennsylvania's presidential contest, which Mr. Trump won by 70,000 votes. Three
voters in each precinct must file affidavits by Monday petitioning a Common
Pleas Court judge for a recount in their districts.

Such challenges will likely be scattered unevenly across the state. But Carl
Romanelli, Ms. Stein's Pennsylvania field director, said the goal wasn't to
reverse the election outcome, but "to get an idea of the integrity of
Pennsylvania's elections." Some progressives distrust electronic voting machines
used in Allegheny and most other counties.

In Allegheny County, previous recounts have involved tabulating absentee ballots
by hand and comparing election-night result tapes with a flash drive in each
voting machine.

Philadelphia, along with two-thirds of Pennsylvania counties, uses such
machines, which experts have demonstrated can be hacked even without being
hooked up to the internet.

The basis for this week's concerns, however, appears to be purely
circumstantial. One of the experts in the magazine report, University of
Michigan computer scientist J. Alex Halderman, wrote separately that machines
had "probably not" been hacked, but the only way to be sure was "to closely
examine the available physical evidence."

The Clinton campaign has not pressed for recounts.

"If there were something to do here, there are a lot of us who would be jumping
on it," said Adam Bonin, a Philadelphia election law attorney who represents
Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1224 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SWEEPING UNITED KINGDOM SPYING BILL BECOMES LAW

BYLINE: Compiled from news services

SECTION: WORLD; WORLD BRIEFS; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 567 words


LONDON - In Britain, Big Brother just got bigger.

After months of wrangling, Parliament has passed a contentious new snooping law
that gives authorities - from police and spies to food regulators, fire
officials and tax inspectors - powers to look at the internet browsing records
of everyone in the country.

The law requires telecoms companies to keep records of all users' web activity
for a year, creating databases of personal information that the firms worry
could be vulnerable to leaks and hackers.

Civil liberties groups say the law establishes mass surveillance of British
citizens.

HIV outreach suspended

DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania - Last month, the minister of health announced that
Tanzania will ban HIV/AIDS outreach projects aimed at gay men, pending a review.
That forced the closure, at least temporarily, of U.S.-funded programs that
provide testing, condoms and medical care to homosexuals. About 30 percent of
gay men in Tanzania are HIV-positive; now health workers say that figure could
rise.

Tanzania's actions appear to mark the first time that a country has suspended
parts of the United States' hugely successful foreign HIV/AIDS initiative in an
attempt to crack down on the gay community. The U.S. PEPFAR campaign has been
credited with saving millions of lives.

Fillon picked in France

PARIS - Former Prime Minister Francois Fillon was nominated as the French
Republicans' candidate for next year's presidential election, as voters on the
right picked a figure promising tough economic reforms and embracing traditional
values to lead their party back to power.

With about half the vote counted and Mr. Fillon leading by almost 40 percentage
points, his rival Alain Juppe conceded and called on his supporters to rally
behind the winner.

Mr. Fillon will now become the main rival for Marine Le Pen's anti-immigration,
anti-euro platform in next spring's election. Attention will now turn back to
the ruling Socialist Party and the future of Francois Hollande, the least
popular French president in half a century.

Australian refugee plan

SYDNEY - For years, the United Nations' refugee agency told Australia that its
policy of banishing asylum seekers to remote Pacific island detention centers
was illegal.

Now, the agency is working with Australia in what both sides call an unusual,
not-to-be-replicated agreement to send some of those refugees across the world,
to be resettled in the United States.

The deal, announced last week, is aimed at shutting down two offshore detention
facilities - one on the island nation of Nauru and the other on Manus Island in
Papua New Guinea - where hundreds of people are housed in what rights groups
describe as deplorable conditions. The United States has agreed to take some of
them; how many, and how quickly, remains unclear.

Otto hits Costa Rica

SAN JOSE, Costa Rica - At least nine people have been killed in Costa Rica in
the wake of late-season Hurricane Otto, the government said Friday.

According to the Red Cross, at least 25 people are still missing.

Nearly 1,200 houses were reported damaged. A bridge, two dams and dozens of
roads were destroyed or damaged, and five water mains require repairs, newspaper
La Nacion reported.

Also in the world

Brazilian President Michel Temer lost a key aide on Friday after being dragged
into an influence-trafficking scandal that threatens to revive political
uncertainty in Latin America's largest economy.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Francois Fillon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1225 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                 SOONER EDITION

COUNTRY, CASTRO AND UNVARNISHED TRUTH

BYLINE: Ruth Ann Dailey

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 746 words


"Let's take our country back!"

The first time I remember hearing that expression was in 2004. I'm certain of
the year because it was repeated - either by me or a local university professor
- during a weekly panel discussion that was being televised during a
presidential campaign.

The only year that fits those details is 2004, and in 2004 this off-putting
expression was coming from John Kerry supporters: They were going to take their
country back!

"From whom?" I quipped. "Aliens?"

"Exactly!" the professor gloated.

The gleam in his eye told me he thought he'd won the volley, but to my way of
thinking, I had. He had revealed exactly what he thought of what turned out to
be, weeks later, a decisive majority of American voters.

In the 2016 election cycle, the roles were reversed. In a brief post-election
rumination for the Nov. 21 edition of The New Yorker, comedian Larry Wilmore
expresses his chagrin at hearing supporters of Donald Trump (the "mango
Mussolini") chant "Take our country back" and "Make America great again."

Though he is mere months older than I am, Mr. Wilmore apparently doesn't
remember the Democrats' chants in the 2004 election cycle, so he ascribes 2016
attitudes to racism rather than to partisanship.

"I wondered who they thought had stolen their country," he writes. "Well, the
chief suspect lives at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. It appears that Obama's biggest
mistake was P.W.B., Presidenting While Black."

So does that mean George W. Bush's mistake, inciting Democrats' chants, was
Presidenting While Texan?

No, every eight- or 12-year period delivers a course correction to Washington,
D.C. It has ever been thus. But the more extreme the "base" of both parties
becomes, the wider the pendulum's swing and the more polarizing the accompanying
rhetoric. Mr. Wilmore's words don't seem aimed at closing the chasm.

*

The same day I saw his essay I also opened a fundraising letter from the
Benjamin Harrison Presidential Site - the 23rd president's home and museum in
Indianapolis.

In Harrison's day, the stately brick house was a quiet country retreat, but
today it is near the city's bustling convention center and sees 27,000 visitors
per year.

On the back of the letter was nothing but three small photos of various tour
groups - and a quote from Harrison that seems carefully chosen for these
fractious times.

"The flag cannot stand for the benevolent policies of an administration. It
stands for more permanent things - for things that changing administrations have
no power to change."

These words, and another of Harrison's thoughts on the necessity of hope to the
"good citizen," reveal him to be quite an optimist. Today, each faction fears
that the opposing side's administration does, in fact, have the power to change
things we had thought were permanent, and this fear escalates the rancor of our
political discourse.

From his single term in the 1890s, Harrison couldn't have foreseen the vast
expansion of the federal government and the way in which an unresponsive,
metastasizing bureaucracy can whittle away at our liberty.

But he is right that the flag stands for permanent things, transcendent things -
ideals we should honor and strive to preserve. Doing so would require humility,
something that has been in short supply in D.C. for a very long time.

*

We cannot preserve the good if we won't call true evil what it is when we see
it. Our nation's changing administrations have often stood in stark contrast but
rarely more so than this weekend, at the death of Fidel Castro.

The outgoing administration's statement focused on continued outreach to Cuba
(that is, on President Barack Obama's legacy) and was therefore determinedly
conciliatory in tone - to the point of farce: "History will record and judge the
enormous impact of this singular figure [Castro] on the people and world around
him."

Imagine an American president saying that about another of the past century's
despots - Stalin, Hitler, Mao, Pol Pot, Amin, Saddam Hussein, Assad. . That
Castro killed fewer people and ravaged a smaller country doesn't make his
victims' suffering any less tragic and real.

How many more decades will be required for history to judge Castro? None. A mass
murderer is dead.

Donald Trump's statement balanced hope for the people of Cuba with unvarnished
truth about what they have suffered - and who caused it.

I did not vote for either of these presidents, but thank God for some necessary
and timely truth-telling. More of that, and only that, please.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Ruth Ann Dailey: ruthanndailey@hotmail.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1226 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

RECOUNT COULD INCLUDE DOZENS OF PRECINCTS IN COUNTY

BYLINE: Chris Potter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 1017 words


Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein launched a two-pronged bid to
re-examine Pennsylvania's presidential election results Monday. And while even
some supporters say they don't expect to overturn Donald Trump's win in the
state, the effort has already complicated the timeline for certifying the
results in Allegheny County.

On Monday afternoon, the Stein campaign filed a Commonwealth Court petition on
behalf of more than 100 voters, expressing "grave concerns about the integrity
of electronic voting machines used in their districts."

The petition is part of a Green effort to recount ballots in Pennsylvania,
Wisconsin and Michigan from the Nov. 8 election. The filing said the people
attaching their names to the petition believe the election result to be
"illegal."

The state Republican Party called the effort "a sad commentary on the failure of
some to accept . the will of the people," while Democrats were silent. Democrat
Hillary Clinton's campaign has evinced little enthusiasm for recounts, which
aren't expected to have any impact on the result.

"We must recount the votes so we can build trust in our election system," Ms.
Stein said in a statement. Citing "accusations of irregularities and hacks" of
Democratic Party emails and voter registration databases, she said, "People of
all political persuasions are asking if our election results are reliable."

The Green effort mainly targets long-standing concerns that voting machines are
vulnerable to hacking. Compounding those fears is the fact that machines in
two-thirds of Pennsylvania counties, including Allegheny and Philadelphia, don't
maintain a paper record of voters' wishes. That makes the electronic results
nearly impossible to verify, critics say, though the machines' defenders note
there are no documented cases of hackers changing a race's outcome. The state's
top elections official, Secretary of State Pedro Cortes, a Democrat, said there
was no evidence of any sort of cyberattacks or irregularities in Pennsylvania's
election.

The petition was filed on the last day allowed under state law. Although it
includes expert testimony about hacking vulnerabilities and news stories about
purported Russian efforts to disrupt the election, it contains no concrete
evidence of tampering.

The lawsuit is an effort to contest the election on a statewide basis. But Ms.
Stein's argument for doing so may ultimately depend on the second prong:a series
of precinct-by-precinct petitions also filed Monday, seeking recounts in polling
places across the state.

Those recounts, which must be requested by three voters in each precinct, could
provide "further evidence of petitioners' concern," said the Commonwealth Court
filing. The filing could be withdrawn, it adds, if "recounts ... yield no
additional proof" of problems.

Michelle Zuckerman-Parker, a volunteer who was coordinating the filing of
petitions with Allegheny County's elections office, said challenges were filed
in at least 57 precincts by Monday afternoon, out of more than 1,300 countywide.
The county could not confirm that number.

It was unclear how many such petitions had been filed in the state's 9,000-plus
voting districts, though filings were reported in Philadelphia and elsewhere
Monday.

"This is not a Democratic thing or a Green thing. It's about validating what we
hold dear: the democratic process," said Ms. Zuckerman-Parker, a Democrat.

The petitions she helped file sought recounts in each district for the
presidential and U.S. Senate races. The filings also requested that "a
reasonable subset" of the county's machines "be forensically analyzed by
appropriate computer experts for potential tampering, malware, and/or hacking."

The county Board of Elections, which consists of Allegheny County Executive Rich
Fitzgerald and two county council members, had been slated to certify the
results Monday. Instead, it recessed its meeting until Dec. 12, giving elections
staff time to handle the recount requests.

Mark Wolosik, the county's Elections Division manager, said election staff would
gather Dec. 5 to print out results stored in each machine's memory and compare
them with the numbers reported on Election Night.

But Mr. Wolosik said the county had already conducted a forensic examination of
its machines.

Prior to each election, 20 of the county's 4,500 machines are selected at random
to have their coding compared with a verified original version of the code. That
check turned up no sign of tampering, he said.

That may not satisfy recount organizers. "We'd like access to those machines so
we can be sure they were not compromised," said Ilann Maazel, a New York
attorney involved in the recount bid.

Petitioners can go to Common Pleas Court if they are dissatisfied with the
recount, though Mr. Maazel said, "We're going to take one step at a time.
Hopefully, the recounts will happen the way we've requested."

Recount petitions elsewhere were rejected outright. Pennsylvania's Department of
State, which oversees elections, issued a statement that "many counties have
completed their certification," meaning it was too late to petition election
officials.

Any court action could stress a timeline requiring the state to certify results
by Dec. 13. But "in the world of election litigation, that's a long way away,"
said Mr. Maazel, a veteran of the 2000 fight over presidential election results
in Florida.

Mr. Fitzgerald expressed confidence in his county's results Monday morning: "I
think Mark and his team have a great reputation for accurate and fair
elections," he said.

Among those seeking a recount was Joy Sabl, a Democrat who requested the
procedure in the Point Breeze precinct where she served as the judge of
elections.

Ms. Sabl said she noticed no problems on Election Day, except a glitch involving
a cartridge used to start one of the machines.

Election workers ascribed that to the machine's age, but she said after hearing
of similar problems elsewhere, "I was not sleeping as well at night."

She said she'd long had concerns about hacking: "Put that together with concerns
about the age of the machines, and it's a powderkeg."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chris Potter: cpotter@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2533. / The Associated
Press contributed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1227 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

REJECTING CLINTON

BYLINE: SANDY LANNIS GENTILE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A-6

LENGTH: 278 words


No one was more surprised by the results of the presidential election earlier
this month than I was. But, when I thought about it the past few weeks, none of
us should have been surprised.

For voters to have returned the Democrats to the White House, they would have
had to say, in effect, it is OK that the president and his surrogates brazenly
lied to us about keeping our doctors and health insurance plans and reducing
premiums by $2,500 per family under Obamacare; it is OK that the Democratic
candidate for president, Hillary Clinton, repeatedly lied to us about her
private email server, the handling of classified documents and the Clinton
Foundation money laundering operation; it is OK for the attorney general to have
had a private meeting with the candidate's husband before the decision not to
prosecute her was announced. After all, some people are above the law, while the
rest of us must abide by it or face jail time.

In effect, for Ms. Clinton to have won, the American people would have had to
say that the Democrats may continue to dupe and make fools of us, because we are
not smart enough to know any better. The national Democratic Party has swung so
far to the left under Mr. Obama and has had so little regard for the truth that
the average Joe or Jane could no longer sit by and do nothing. Their only
recourse against the arrogance and duplicity of those in power was to beat them
at the ballot box.

Ms. Clinton may have won the popular vote - due to the ultra-liberal voting
blocks on the left coast, in Illinois and in the Northeast - but the rest of the
country declared with one loud voice, "Enough is enough."

SANDY LANNIS GENTILE

Squirrel Hill

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1228 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CALL TO SERVE? FIRST, RITUALISTIC HUMILIATION

BYLINE: Tony Norman

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Pg. A-2

LENGTH: 789 words


Earlier this year, former reality show contestant Omarosa Manigault made an
absurd prediction on PBS "Frontline" that has proved to be prescient - at least
regarding Republicans:

"Every critic, every detractor will have to bow down to President Trump," she
said with a smile full of serpentine authority. "It's everyone who has ever
doubted Donald, who ever disagreed, who ever challenged him. It is the ultimate
revenge to become the most powerful man in the universe."

We all guffawed loudly at that bit of apocalyptic prophesying. After all,
Omarosa's claim to fame had been as the designated villain during Season 1 of
"The Apprentice." She accused the show of selectively editing scenes to make her
look like a Dragon Lady and even hinted that the producers were racist.

Since then, Omarosa and "The Donald" have mended fences. The former Democrat who
once worked for Vice President Al Gore became Donald Trump's African-American
outreach coordinator, arguably America's most thankless job.

After her TV boss and onetime tormentor was elected the 45th president of the
United States, Omarosa gushed to the media about the existence of an "enemies
list" of pols who did not support Mr. Trump's run for the White House. "It's so
great our enemies are making themselves clear so that when we get into the White
House, we know where we stand," she said, echoing Richard Nixon.

Watching the almost ritualistic humiliation of former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney during his bid to become the next secretary of state calls to mind
Omarosa's chilling words on "Frontline."

At the time, she was mostly talking about Democrats, but that's not going to
happen. The opposite of "bowing down" has already begun on the
liberal/progressive front. Democrats are livid over losing the White House to a
guy who lost every debate, lost the popular vote by at least 2 million and will
likely have more conflicts of interests than any president in U.S. history.

But what's interesting is that unlike Democrats, more than a few once-staunch
"Never Trump" Republicans have already bared their necks like submissive canines
before the Trump alpha dog.

Those of us who remember the disturbing stories of Mr. Romney's bullying ways
when he was allegedly a prep school sadist at Michigan's Cranbrook School in the
mid-1960s will admit to a tinge of schadenfreude watching him get hazed by an
even bigger bully. The fact that Mr. Romney would submit to the humiliation in
the first place is disturbing - and ultimately disqualifying.

Now there are reports that Mr. Romney will have to make a full-throated apology
to Donald Trump for calling him a "scam artist" and other fairly accurate things
before he can expect serious consideration. Even then, the job may go to former
New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, or a third horse like Gen. David Petraeus, anyway.

Because the 2012 GOP presidential nominee was not a Trump loyalist, he is
expected to show his loyalty to the president-elect by "bowing down," in
Omarosa's words. When he does, his shame will be televised, deconstructed and
laughed at along with all the other absurdities of the Trump news cycle.

But if there is one thing the Romney comeuppance teaches us is that every bully,
no matter how insulated by wealth he may be, gets his teeth kicked in sooner or
later. Call it karma or whatever - but Donald Trump is headed for an epic fall.

We're already seeing signs of the coming unraveling in his petulant response to
Hillary Clinton's massive lead in the popular vote. He's feeling genuinely
threatened by the Wisconsin recount initiated by Jill Stein's challenge.
Although it isn't likely to reverse his win, it will contribute to Ms. Clinton's
overall lead nationally.

In anticipation of that embarrassment, Mr. Trump has embraced the conspiracy
theories of Alex Jones' Infowars website. Mr. Jones is pimping the
much-discredited theory that "millions" of votes were cast by undocumented
immigrants on Nov. 8. That way, Mr. Trump can claim he "won" the popular vote if
the votes of illegal aliens are deducted from the total.

To save face, Mr. Trump is calling into question the legitimacy of the
presidential race he won. One would think he would welcome even a nationwide
recount to "prove" he won the Electoral College and possibly the popular vote,
but he'd rather double down the ignorance.

In the end, Mr. Trump's presidency could be fatally undermined by
conflict-of-interest issues he doesn't believe apply to him or his family
business, and emoluments from foreign governments. In a weird way, maybe he's
doing Mitt Romney a favor by humiliating him and sparing him the indignity of
trying to "normalize" his rampant double-dealing. Our highest-ranking diplomat
shouldn't be reduced to being a bag man.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Tony Norman: tnorman@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1631.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1229 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

COURT HEARING SET TO CONSIDER PA. VOTE RECOUNT

BYLINE: Angela Couloumbis, Harrisburg Bureau

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 641 words


HARRISBURG - The Green Party-backed push for a recount of Pennsylvania's
presidential election results will get its day in court.

Commonwealth Court has scheduled a hearing for 10 a.m. Monday in Harrisburg to
consider the recount effort pushed by former Green Party presidential candidate
Jill Stein, according to a court order Tuesday.

Ms. Stein's campaign helped coordinate a legal challenge this week seeking the
statewide recount, contending the Nov. 8 election was illegal and its results
inaccurate.

It cited as evidence research by computer scientists pointing to potential
hacking of electronic voting machines, as well as numerous news reports of
hacking, possibly by foreign governments, into email accounts associated with
the Democratic National Committee and the campaign chairman for Hillary Clinton.

In scheduling Monday's hearing, the court order said little about the
proceeding. But it said "a conclusive decision" on the matter must be reached by
Dec. 13, the deadline for Pennsylvania's electors to declare who wins the
state's 20 electoral votes.

The recount petition was filed Monday on behalf of at least 100 Pennsylvania
voters.

Election-law experts said they expect lawyers for Ms. Stein's campaign will need
to produce concrete evidence of election irregularities to bolster their case
for a recount.

"I would expect that the court, in order to hold this up, will need to see more
than what was contained in their pleading," said one, Kathleen Jones Goldman, a
Buchanan, Ingersoll & Rooney lawyer who chairs the Pittsburgh chapter of the
Republican National Lawyers Association but has no role in this case.

Ms. Stein has raised about $6 million to finance recount efforts in three key
states - Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan - that sealed President-elect
Donald Trump's victory over Ms. Clinton. She lost by fewer than 100,000 votes in
all three states, which have a recent history of backing Democrats.

Republicans have decried the effort in Pennsylvania as an act of desperation by
a failed campaign. Pedro Cortes, who as Pennsylvania secretary of state serves
as the state's top election officer, has said repeatedly that there has been no
evidence of voter irregularities Nov. 8.

Besides the Commonwealth Court petition, Ms. Stein's campaign is helping to
organize recount efforts at the precinct level in at least a half-dozen counties
across the state, including Allegheny County, where officials said recounts
would take place Monday in 52 districts where voters filed petitions seeking the
recanvass.

The recounts will involve only the races for president and U.S. Senate; the
results reported on Election Night will be compared with those stored on voting
machines' internal memories.

Of the 52 districts being challenged, 33 are in Pittsburgh, with the heaviest
concentration in the East End's 14th Ward. Seven more are in Mt. Lebanon, two
are in Edgewood and single precincts are in Aspinwall, Bellevue, Ben Avon,
Bethel Park, Castle Shannon, Dormont, Ohio Township, Pine, Swissvale and
Whitehall.

Although Republicans have denounced the recount effort, of the 52 precincts in
Allegheny County, Ms. Clinton won all but three, sometimes by margins of 4 to 1.
That's almost certainly because initiating a recount requires petitions from
three voters in a district -and such voters are most likely to come from liberal
areas.

The distribution simply reflects "where voters and volunteers came forward,"
said Ilann Maazel, an attorney involved in the recount bid. "This is a
grassroots movement by hundreds and hundreds of people around the state who want
to make sure every vote was counted accurately."

The Stein campaign said Tuesday that recount petitions had been filed in more
than 260 election districts statewide. In addition to Allegheny, the counties
included Berks, Bucks, Centre, Montgomery and Philadelphia.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1230 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 SOONER EDITION

SENATORS FACING PUSH TO PASS STALLED MINERS PROTECTION ACT

BYLINE: Daniel Moore, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 598 words


Coal country, with its shuttered power plants and mines, helped push
Pennsylvania - and the presidency - into Donald Trump's hands earlier this
month.

Mr. Trump's campaign message to "bring back" jobs to economically depressed
regions of the state resonated with those struggling to make ends meet.

While it remains to be seen how the president-elect can revive an ailing coal
industry, Mr. Trump does have an immediate opportunity to provide some relief -
and an early test to see whether he will uphold commitments to coal miners.

Legislation introduced 17 months ago that would shore up retired coal miners'
union pensions and health care amid a wave of coal company bankruptcies has been
stalled by Senate Republicans.

The Miners Protection Act, sponsored by Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va., and
co-sponsored by Pennsylvania Democrat Bob Casey, would redirect excess funds
from the federal Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund - a pot of money collected from
coal companies to fund mine restoration projects.

The money would prop up United Mine Workers of America pension funds, relied on
by more than 89,000 miners nationwide, including 13,000 miners in Pennsylvania.
The move would honor a promise by the federal government dating to the Truman
administration to guarantee UMWA retirement funds.

The UMWA has said the fund risks insolvency as soon as next year amid widespread
layoffs and companies' attempts to shed pension liabilities in bankruptcy
proceedings.

On Tuesday, Mr. Casey sent a letter to Mr. Trump, calling for the
president-elect to support the bill. In the letter, joined by Sen. Ron Wyden,
D-Ore., Mr. Casey wrote it was "unconscionable" for Republican leaders to
refuse, for more than a year, to bring it up for a vote.

"Action cannot wait, nor does it need to," Mr. Casey wrote. "The pension fund
that our miners, their widows and families rely on for basic necessities, will
be at risk of insolvency at the beginning of next year."

He told Mr. Trump there are two remaining large pieces of legislation to which
Republican leaders could attach the miners bill: the 21st Century Cures Act, a
health care bill, and a temporary appropriations bill that is expected to pass.

Mr. Trump, three weeks after his surprise victory over Democrat Hillary Clinton,
is still deciding on Cabinet picks and policy stances that will define his time
in office. But his support for the struggling coal miner is one of the clearest
pledges he made, and Mr. Trump performed better with voters across southwestern
Pennsylvania than other recent Republican presidential candidates.

Republicans are hesitant to support a measure that would appear to give
preference to union workers or be seen as approving a taxpayer-funded bailout,
Sen. Shelley Moore Capito, R-W.Va., said in September during a panel discussion
on the issue in Washington, D.C.

Still, she said at the time, she had "pretty good assurances" from Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell that the bill would be considered this year. Of
the bill's 18 co-sponsors, eight are Republicans.

Pennsylvania Republican Pat Toomey, who won re-election this month, withheld
support for the miners' act more than a year before deciding in September to
back the measure.

A spokesperson for Mr. Toomey did not immediately respond to a comment on where
the bill stands. During a panel discussion with Ms. Capito, Mr. Manchin had
harsh words for obstructors of the bill.

"If we can't fulfill this commitment to people who basically built this country,
then shame on all of us," he said. "I don't know how any of us can go and face
people who are losing everything."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Daniel Moore: dmoore@post-gazette.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Rush/Post-Gazette: Thousands of mine workers and
supporters march down E Roy Furman Highway in Waynesburg for a rally by the
United Mine Workers of America on April 1.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1231 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FED PRESIDENT SUPPORTS RATE HIKE

BYLINE: Joyce Gannon  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 554 words


The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland said Wednesday it's too
soon to speculate on how President-elect Donald Trump's economic agenda will
shape the Fed's monetary policies going forward.

In a speech in Pittsburgh, Loretta Mester also reaffirmed her view that the Fed
should raise interest rates when it meets again later this month.

"I view another increase in interest rates as a prudent step to take" to
maintain economic stability, Ms. Mester said in an address to the
African-American Chamber of Commerce of Western Pennsylvania at the Omni William
Penn Hotel, Downtown.

At its last meeting, held the week before the Nov. 8 presidential election, the
Fed voted to keep interest rates unchanged but indicated a hike could come in
December as long the economy continues to expand. At that meeting, Ms. Mester
was one of two members of the Fed's Open Market Committee who dissented and
supported an immediate rate hike.

"I view a small step up in interest rates as appropriate - not because I want to
curtail the expansion, but because I believe it will help prolong the
expansion," she said Wednesday.

"If we delay too long and then find ourselves in a situation where the labor
market becomes unsustainably tight, price pressures become excessive and we have
to move rates steeply, we could risk a recession - a bad outcome that
disproportionately harms the more vulnerable parts of our society."

The Fed, the nation's central bank, oversees the country's financial system by
setting the federal funds rate - the interest rate at which banks loan money to
each other overnight.

The current target range for the rate is 0.25 percent to 0.50 percent. Forecasts
published by the Fed in September indicate members expect the rate to rise to
1.1 percent by the end of 2017.

While she acknowledged fiscal policy changes are likely under the new
administration as it considers trade deals, taxes and infrastructure spending,
"The timing and size of the impacts are very uncertain at this point," Ms.
Mester said.

The Fed plans to study the Trump administration's policies to determine how they
will affect employment, inflation and other factors, she said. But until they
are disclosed, "The devil will be in the details."

As president of the Cleveland Fed, a post she's held since 2014, Ms. Mester
oversees 950 employees in a region that includes Cleveland, Pittsburgh and
Cincinnati.

She praised Pittsburgh for diversifying its economic base into health care,
education, financial services and technology following the collapse of heavy
manufacturing in the 1970s and 1980s. She said the region's well-educated
workforce helps attract new businesses and events such as the White House
Frontiers Conference on innovation held here in October.

As for campaign promises by the president-elect to bring back coal and steel
jobs to the region, "I don't think you can change the underlying aspects of the
economy," Ms. Mester said.

In its most recent Beige Book report on economic conditions nationwide released
Wednesday, the Fed said the region that includes Pittsburgh showed stable
manufacturing output, an improved housing market, and gains for commercial
builders.

Retail sales, including new cars, declined, the report said. In the energy
sector, drilling and coal production increased.

Joyce Gannon: jgannon@post-gazette.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Loretta Mester, president, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1232 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

STATE GOP SEEKS TO PREVENT RECOUNT  IN SOME PRECINCTS

BYLINE: Chris Potter, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 742 words


State Republicans are seeking to prevent a recount of ballots in some Allegheny
County precincts on Monday, arguing that petitions seeking the recount were
filed in the wrong place.

"The Elections Board has no power or authority to conduct any further recount or
recanvass," said a Wednesday filing in Common Pleas Court by Republican
attorneys Ronald Hicks and Lawrence Tabas.

The arguments involved are technical, and rely on a close reading of the
timeline according to which votes are counted and challenges may be permitted.
But in essence, Republicans argue that those seeking the recount were in the
wrong place at the right time.

The recount process began on Nov. 28, when more than 300 Allegheny County
residents, encouraged by the campaign of Green Party presidential candidate Jill
Stein, filed petitions at the county's election office, seeking a recount of
results in more than 50 polling places. Similar efforts took place in other
counties, mostly in the Philadelphia area, and the Stein campaign also filed a
statewide lawsuit contesting the election.

Pennsylvania's election code does allow for precinct-level recounts, provided
they are sought by three voters petitioning within a given district. But under
the code, a recount request can only be brought to the election board before it
finishes counting the votes - a process called "computation." Voters can still
seek a recount for up to five days after computation is complete, but they must
file their petitions in Common Pleas Court instead.

Allegheny County's computation was finished Nov. 23. A recount petition filed
after that date, the Republicans argue, could only be filed in court, with a
monetary bond.

"[O]nce a return board has performed its duty and made its return, ... it cannot
reconvene and make another computation," the filing says. "[I]nstead, the sole
remedy of a dissatisfied party is in the courts."

That argument seems to jibe with guidance the Department of State provided to
counties on Nov. 28. "If your county has finished its computation . and the
five-day period expires today or later, you may inform the filer that during
this five-day period, the petition for recount must be filed with the Court of
Common Pleas," the guidance reads.

An Allegheny County spokeswoman declined comment on the filing.

"Voters in Allegheny County of all political persuasions, and Americans across
the country, are calling for us to verify the vote. Today's filing made clear
that some will stop at nothing to deny voters the assurance their vote counted.
It's disappointing to see them try to stand in the way of a voting system all
Americans can trust," said David Cobb, campaign manager for the Jill Stein
campaign recount effort.

"I certainly understand Republicans don't want a recount," said Ron Bandes, the
president of election-transparency group VoteAllegheny, which supports the
recount. "They're the winners, and they don't want to jeopardize that. But they
aren't recognizing the multiple purposes of this recount."

Mr. Bandes' group is wary of electronic voting machines like those used in
Allegheny County, which do not retain a paper record of a voter's choices.
Activists and some computer experts fear that such machines are especially
vulnerable to hacking, and hoped a recount would help investigate those
concerns.

Mr. Bandes said a recount, and forensic examination of voting machines, could
lead to better elections even if it didn't change the outcome of this year's
vote. "If you think about the Bush v. Gore case in 2000, the result didn't
change, but we did get the Help America Vote Act," he said. That law prompted
states like Pennsylvania to purchase the paperless machines, he acknowledged,
but it also mandated improvements.

"The system is getting better, and that's important," said Mr. Bandes.

Republicans have scoffed at the Stein campaign's recount effort since it got
underway, calling it "totally and completely without any merit" in a statement
Wednesday. But they had little to say about the court filing.

Ron Hicks, who acts as a lawyer for Allegheny County Republicans, did not
respond to calls made Tuesday about the possibility of a challenge, or to calls
made after it had been filed Wednesday. The Republican Committee of Allegheny
County referred questions to the state party, where spokeswoman Megan Sweeney
said she wasn't familiar with the filing but said, "We look forward to when Dr.
Stein's absurd challenges are done once for all."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Chris Potter: cpotter@post-gazette.com or 412-263-2533.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1233 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FED PRESIDENT SUPPORTS RATE HIKE

BYLINE: Joyce Gannon, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 548 words


The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland said Wednesday it's too
soon to speculate on how President-elect Donald Trump's economic agenda will
shape the Fed's monetary policies going forward.

In a speech in Pittsburgh, Loretta Mester also reaffirmed her view that the Fed
should raise interest rates when it meets again later this month.

"I view another increase in interest rates as a prudent step to take" to
maintain economic stability, Ms. Mester said in an address to the
African-American Chamber of Commerce of Western Pennsylvania at the Omni William
Penn Hotel, Downtown.

At its last meeting, held the week before the Nov. 8 presidential election, the
Fed voted to keep interest rates unchanged but indicated a hike could come in
December as long the economy continues to expand. At that meeting, Ms. Mester
was one of two members of the Fed's Open Market Committee who dissented and
supported an immediate rate hike.

"I view a small step up in interest rates as appropriate - not because I want to
curtail the expansion, but because I believe it will help prolong the
expansion," she said Wednesday.

"If we delay too long and then find ourselves in a situation where the labor
market becomes unsustainably tight, price pressures become excessive and we have
to move rates steeply, we could risk a recession - a bad outcome that
disproportionately harms the more vulnerable parts of our society."

The Fed, the nation's central bank, oversees the country's financial system by
setting the federal funds rate - the interest rate at which banks loan money to
each other overnight.

The current target range for the rate is 0.25 percent to 0.50 percent. Forecasts
published by the Fed in September indicate members expect the rate to rise to
1.1 percent by the end of 2017.

While she acknowledged fiscal policy changes are likely under the new
administration as it considers trade deals, taxes and infrastructure spending,
"The timing and size of the impacts are very uncertain at this point," Ms.
Mester said.

The Fed plans to study the Trump administration's policies to determine how they
will affect employment, inflation and other factors, she said. But until they
are disclosed, "The devil will be in the details."

As president of the Cleveland Fed, a post she's held since 2014, Ms. Mester
oversees 950 employees in a region that includes Cleveland, Pittsburgh and
Cincinnati.

She praised Pittsburgh for diversifying its economic base into health care,
education, financial services and technology following the collapse of heavy
manufacturing in the 1970s and 1980s. She said the region's well-educated
workforce helps attract new businesses and events such as the White House
Frontiers Conference on innovation held here in October.

As for campaign promises by the president-elect to bring back coal and steel
jobs to the region, "I don't think you can change the underlying aspects of the
economy," Ms. Mester said.

In its most recent Beige Book report on economic conditions nationwide released
Wednesday, the Fed said the region that includes Pittsburgh showed stable
manufacturing output, an improved housing market, and gains for commercial
builders.

Retail sales, including new cars, declined, the report said. In the energy
sector, drilling and coal production increased.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Joyce Gannon: jgannon@post-gazette.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Loretta Mester, president, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1234 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                 SOONER EDITION

PELOSI'S RETRO REIGN;
DEMOCRATS PROVE CLUELESS BY KEEPING HER AS LEADER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A-10

LENGTH: 580 words


After the rise and electoral triumph of Donald Trump, Democrats could be
expected to be searching their souls, re-examining their approach to policy and
voters, and maybe even looking for new faces and fresh leadership.

Yet the Democrats could not even bring themselves to replace Nancy Pelosi as
their leader in the U.S. House. She was re-elected on Tuesday - 134 to 63.

Ms. Pelosi, 76, has led her party in the House since 2003, including four years
as speaker. She was challenged for the leadership position by Rep. Tim Ryan of
nearby Youngstown, Ohio. The 43-year-old congressman, just re-elected to his
seventh term, said it was time for change in the Democratic Party, an assertion
it is almost impossible to refute.

Mr. Ryan also said that the Democrats losing the presidential election to Mr.
Trump was a clear signal that his party no longer hears its base of working men
and women. They are the very people who helped the president-elect win the
so-called Rust Belt or Brexit states. Mr. Ryan asserted that his party has
become a party of the East and West Coasts.

But Mr. Ryan did not even get close to toppling Ms. Pelosi, which makes one
wonder what it would take for Democrats to trade in their reliable old war
horses for fresh blood and ideas.

The Democrats, under Ms. Pelosi, lost the House in 2010, 2012, 2014 and 2016. In
2010 they lost 63 seats. They went from holding 257 seats in 2008 to 194 in this
election. This was the year the Dems were supposed to retake the House. They
picked up six seats.

How many times do House Democrats have to lose before they figure out that Ms.
Pelosi is not the winning ticket? She comes from a House district in San
Francisco, about as distant from middle America as strict can be.

Ms. Pelosi wrote to Democratic House members that in order "to be a strong voice
for hard-working families and to uphold the values we cherish as Americans,
House Democrats must be unified, strategic, and unwavering. These qualities took
us to victory in 2006, and I believe they will do so again."

This is delusional. The election of 2006 was a decade - a decade of defeat -
ago. By re-electing Ms. Pelosi, the Democrats have quite possibly doomed
themselves to losing the House again in 2018. It is reasonable to suppose they
will never regain the House under Ms. Pelosi's leadership, and most Democratic
congressmen know this.

As Mr. Ryan said: "Under our current leadership, Democrats have been reduced to
our smallest congressional minority since 1929. This should indicate to all of
us that keeping our leadership team completely unchanged will simply lead to
more disappointment." He told ABC News: "Donald Trump is the president. That is
how bad we are out of touch, that the backbone of our party went and voted for
Donald Trump. And I say that's our fault."

But telling the obvious truth got Mr. Ryan precisely nowhere. When a former
representative from North Carolina, Heath Shuler, challenged Ms. Pelosi in 2010,
he did even worse. He got only 43 votes despite the drubbing House Democrats
took that year.

Democrats could not even take a first small step of firing Nancy Pelosi. Her
re-election shows how unimaginative and clueless the House Democratic caucus
really is. Worse, it shows that the Democrats cannot break the grip of bicoastal
identity politics. They cannot understand the economic anxiety of those who
voted for Mr. Trump. They cannot even begin to listen to these voters, let alone
court them. They don't live in their world.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1235 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                 SOONER EDITION

FEELING OPTIMISTIC;
CONFIDENCE IN ECONOMY GROWS SINCE TRUMP'S WIN, GALLUP POLL SHOWS

BYLINE: Tim Grant Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 826 words


On the heels of a contentious presidential campaign, Americans are feeling more
enthusiastic about the way the economy is heading than they have in almost a
decade.

In the month since Donald Trump's election win Nov. 8, stock markets have soared
and a recent Gallup poll shows Americans have become more optimistic about the
future of the U.S. economy than at any other time during the nine years that
Gallup has been tracking the U.S. Economic Confidence Index.

The latest Gallup poll score of +6 for the week ending Nov. 27 inched past the
previous high of +5, recorded in January 2015.

Americans' confidence in the economy shifted from negative to positive territory
after the election. Mr. Trump will take office in January. The index was -11 in
the last full week before the Nov. 8 election, but jumped to +4 the week after
and has climbed since then.

Gallup noted that the change was largely attributable to Republicans becoming
more optimistic about the economy's direction. The index has a theoretical
maximum of +100 if all Americans surveyed were to say the economy is doing well
and improving, and a theoretical minimum of -100 if all Americans surveyed were
to say the economy is doing poorly and getting worse.

"Stock prices have done well in the wake of the election. People are wealthier
and that encourages confidence as well," said Gus Faucher, deputy chief
economist at PNC Bank, Downtown. "The economy is the same as before the
election. The difference is some people feel the economic prospects are better
now."

Mr. Faucher pointed out that many of the important economic indicators have been
moving in the right direction since the end of the Great Recession in 2009. The
national unemployment rate of 4.6 percent is as low as its been since 2007. It
peaked at 10 percent in October 2009. Job losses ended in 2010 and since then
the economy has added 15.4 million jobs.

Mr. Faucher said inflation was 1.6 percent in October, well below its long-run
average.

More jobs, more income and low inflation may also have played a role in
retailers around the country reporting one of the best Black Fridays on record.

According to a survey by the National Retail Federation, the average American
spent $290 on consumer items the day after Thanksgiving. While shoppers spent
more last year - $300 - there were more of them this year. Overall, consumers
spent $3 million more this year for a total of $154 million.

Still, it may be too early to tell whether the uptick in confidence will last
beyond January.

Strong consumer confidence is a sign that the economy is gaining steam. But it
could also be a warning of potential setbacks in the years ahead, said Aaron
Leaman, a financial adviser with Signature Financial Planning in Mt. Lebanon.

"Historically when the Consumer Confidence Index rises to a high point, it
typically means a recession will happen a few years down the road," Mr. Leaman
said. "As markets go up, consumer confidence goes up, and it usually marks a
high-point in the economy.

"I believe we will see a very strong holiday season, which will give the Federal
Reserve cover to raise rates," he said. "Then I think we will see an expectation
reset after Trump's inauguration."

With a Republican president and a Republican majority in both houses of
Congress, legislation is likely to be passed more quickly than it has been over
the past eight years under a Democratic administration that was often hindered
by gridlock.

"We will see a lot of legislative action in the first three months of the year
and people will be looking closely at that," Mr. Leaman said. "Confidence could
keep going up. Or people could take a more wait-and-see attitude. There will be
a lot of changes and people will want to see those changes and make up their
minds."

The Gallup poll emphasized that it's not just Americans who are feeling more
optimistic since the election. Potential U.S. economic growth could have
significant effects worldwide, and many foreign investors have played a role in
U.S. markets skyrocketing since the election.

"While the election's results may have improved Americans' outlook on the
economy, favorable market conditions may have driven their confidence further
upward," according to the Gallup report. "But two weeks of positive index
readings on the heels of [Mr. Trump's] unexpected victory reveals a degree of
economic confidence Americans have not expressed since the recession."

The Dow Jones closed above 19,000 on Thursday for the first time in its 120-year
history.

Financial adviser P.J. DiNuzzo, chief investment officer for DiNuzzo Index
Advisors in Beaver, said capital markets are predicting potential benefits of
favorable legislation or executive orders generated by Mr. Trump.

"The market is a short- to intermediate-term pricing mechanism,"Mr. DiNuzzo
said. "It appears there is a consensus at this time that the Trump presidency
will enhance overall economic growth."

Tim Grant: tgrant@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1591.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: Brenda Beetlestone of Clairton takes
a break at Monroeville Mall. More Americans shopped on Black Friday this year,
according to a Gallup poll.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1236 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                  EAST EDITION

WILL DESIGNERS WARM TO MELANIA TRUMP?

BYLINE: Sara Bauknecht  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: MAGAZINE; Pg. E-1

LENGTH: 920 words


Happy or not, it seems almost everyone has something to say about the outcome of
the presidential election.

During the campaign, the fashion community didn't skimp on its support for
Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton. Vogue editor Anna Wintour held a
fundraiser for her during New York Fashion Week, while designers such as Marc
Jacobs, Tory Burch and Public School's Maxwell Osborne and Dao-Yi Chow created
"Made for History" merchandise for her online store. For his fall collection,
Iranian-Israeli designer Elie Tahari even featured a female president in his
advertisements. It's no surprise, then, that their relationship with Donald and
Melania Trump has gotten off to a rocky start.

Despite her model roots, don't expect to see designers enthusiastically
jockeying to dress the incoming first lady. French designer Sophie Theallet,
who's outfitted Michelle Obama, shared an open letter on social media stating
she will not "participate in dressing or associating in any way with the next
first lady" - and she's encouraging others to do the same. Humberto Leon, one of
the founders and designers behind Opening Ceremony and Kenzo, has echoed her
sentiments on his Facebook page: "If she buys your clothes, tell people you
don't support it." (A number of other designers have declined to comment or have
responded with vague answers when asked for their take on the topic.)

Don't be too quick to call this sore-loser syndrome. For many fashion insiders -
an industry largely comprosed of women, minorities, immigrants and members of
the LGBTQ community - a Clinton loss cuts deeply. Just as the cast of the Tony
Award-winning musical "Hamilton" used the theater to deliver a message of
concern and hope to Vice President-elect Mike Pence, designers' apparel and
accessories are their platform to push their plea.

"The rhetoric of racism, sexism and xenophobia unleashed by her husband's
presidential campaign are incompatible with the shared values we live by," wrote
Ms. Theallet, who came to America to pursue her career.

Even some prominent fashion media sites are weighing in.

"Trump and/or his Vice President-elect Mike Pence have been openly hostile
regarding LGBTQ equality, same-sex marriage, female reproductive rights,
immigration reform and international trade (just to scratch the surface) -
stances that not only alienate a good portion of the fashion community, but the
nation as a whole. And this is why we plan on having no part in normalizing the
Trump family, particularly when it comes to cataloging the first lady's fashion
choices," Fashionista.com explained in an editorial published last month. The
piece went on to say that the website will reserve coverage of Mrs. Trump's
fashions for "strictly newsworthy occasions."

During the Obama administration, fashion's who's who have gotten pretty friendly
with the first family. Mrs. Obama welcomed students from across the country to
the White House for a fashion workshop as part of her Reach Higher education
initiative. They got the chance to hear advice for making it in the industry
from the likes of Diane von Furstenberg, Prabal Gurung, Jason Wu and Tracy
Reese. She also encouraged diversity, entrepreneurship and American-made brands
through her wardrobe picks and helped to skyrocket the careers of emerging
talents like Mr. Wu, who designed the gowns she wore to inaugural balls in 2009
and 2013.

Then there's what's come to be known as "the Michelle Obama effect." For 189
public appearances she made between November 2008 and December 2009, she
generated about $2.7 billion in value for the companies whose pieces she
sported, according to a study by David Yermack, professor of finance at the New
York University Stern School of Business.

So far, Mrs. Trump has opted for off-the-rack outfits by Ralph Lauren (who's
outfitted Ms. Clinton for decades), Gucci and Fendi, to name a few. A Trump
spokesperson told Women's Wear Daily after the Republican National Convention
that she wasn't working one-on-one with any designers. While it's unknown if
that will change, her clothes already have been sparking sales. For instance,
the white fitted dress with bell sleeves by London-based designer Roksanda
Ilincic that she wore to give her convention speech swiftly sold out after her
appearance. It retailed for $2,190 at net-a-porter.com.

The irony of all this, however, is that if designers turn their backs on Mrs.
Trump, they run the risk of being discriminatory themselves. We don't know much
about Mrs. Trump or what kind of first lady she will be. Is it smart to shut her
out, all the while Mr. Trump is being criticized for shutting out Muslims,
Hispanics, women, etc., with his brash rhetoric?

"How can we help on the eve of this new era?" Ms. von Furstenberg wrote in a
letter to the 500-plus members of the Council of Fashion Designers of America,
the nonprofit governing body for fashion in America. Her suggestions: "Embrace
diversity, be open-minded, be generous and have compassion." (She was a very
public advocate for Ms. Clinton during the campaign.)

"I'm going to give Melania the benefit of the doubt," Jeremy Scott, the creative
director for Moschino and his own namesake label, told Vanity Fair. Tommy
Hilfiger, Carolina Herrera, Rag & Bone's Marcus Wainwright and Joseph Altuzarra
are a few others who are open to giving her a chance.

Will that chance be reciprocated? Time, and perhaps Mrs. Trump's sartorial taste
come January, will tell.

Sara Bauknecht: sbauknecht@post-gazette.com or on Twitter and Instagram
@SaraB_PG.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jae C. Hong/Associated Press: Stylebook Snapshot 1204 Jae C.
Hong, Associated Press First lady Michelle Obama walks onto the stage at the
Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, N.C., on Sept. 4, 2012, in a dress
was designed by Tracy Reese, one of many American designers she has championed
during her time in the White House.
PHOTO: Rebecca Droke/Post-Gazette: Rebecca Droke/Post-Gazette Melania Trump's
dress by xxx xxx quickly sold out after her speech to the Republican National
Convention in Cleveland on July 18.
PHOTO: Mark Wilson/Getty Images: Mark Wilson/Getty Images Melania Trump with her
family on Election Night wearing a gown by Ralph Lauren.
PHOTO: John Locher/Associated Press: John Locher/Associated Press Melania Trump
with her husband and Ivanka Trump following the second presidential debate in
St. Louis, on Oct. 9, wearing a Gucci blouse in a style called the "pussy bow."

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1237 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                TWO STAR EDITION

HOW WORRIED SHOULD IMMIGRANTS BE?;
PRETTY WORRIED. PRESIDENT TRUMP WILL BE ABLE TO FOLLOW THROUGH ON A NUMBER OF
HIS CAMPAIGN PROMISES WITHOUT CONGRESSIONAL ACTION, WRITES LAW PROFESSOR AMANDA
FROST

SECTION: FORUM; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 1178 words


The day after the presidential election, I stood in front of a class of foreign
graduate students who had come to the United States to study U.S. and
international law, trying to reassure them that they were not in danger of being
deported.

"You are all here legally on student visas," I reminded them. "President-elect
Trump has never threatened to deport noncitizens who have permission to be in
the United States."

Then, a student in a hijab raised her hand and asked, "What if I leave the
country to visit my family for the holidays, or to do research? Will I be
allowed back in?"

Her question has no easy answer. Donald Trump has vowed to "suspend immigration
from certain terror-prone regions" within his first 100 days in office. And the
executive branch has enormous discretion to bar individuals or groups from
entering the United States, even when the person seeking entry has a valid visa.

I hesitated. "Perhaps you should travel before Jan. 20," I told her finally. So
much for calming their fears.

Mr. Trump's presidential campaign centered on his plans to remake U.S.
immigration policy. In addition to suspending immigration from yet-to-be named
regions, he has pledged to reverse President Barack Obama's executive action
granting certain undocumented immigrants temporary reprieves from removal, to
build a "big, beautiful wall" between the United States and Mexico, and to
deport millions of undocumented immigrants within a few years. Can he make good
on those promises? How scared should my students be?

The president has unusually broad authority over immigration policy, but his
power is not unlimited. Mr. Trump, like presidents before him, may find it more
difficult than he expects to persuade Congress, even a Republican-led Congress,
to enact laws and fund his projects, to convince courts that his actions are
constitutional and to persuade the men and women who implement immigration law
to exercise their discretion as he would like.

Mr. Trump can quickly implement proposals that do not require the participation
of another branch of government. His proposed ban on immigration from certain
regions - which replaced his previous and constitutionally suspect plan to ban
all Muslims - is one of these.

By focusing on geography and not religion, Mr. Trump would avoid a court
challenge that could slow down implementation. The Immigration and Nationality
Act gives the president the unilateral power to deny entry to "any class of
aliens" whom he believes is "detrimental to the interests of the United States,"
which is all the authority Mr. Trump needs.

Likewise, Mr. Trump can easily rescind Mr. Obama's 2012 executive action
granting a temporary reprieve from removal to unauthorized immigrants who were
brought to the United States as children. As of today, more than 700,000
undocumented youth have received deferred action and temporary work
authorization, allowing them to come out of the shadows for the first time in
their lives. Mr. Trump can eliminate this program with the stroke of a pen.

Building a wall across the southern border will be harder, however, because it
requires money from Congress. A lot of money. A wall the scale of the one Mr.
Trump promised - 30 to 50 feet tall, stretching 2,000 miles - is estimated to
cost between $15 billion and $25 billion. Mr. Trump has said that he will make
Mexico pay, but he has not explained how he would force it to do so, and
Congress does not appear willing to fund the cost in the meantime. In a recent
interview, Mr. Trump implicitly acknowledged the need to scale back, agreeing
that there "could be some fencing" instead.

Can Mr. Trump deport all of the approximately 11.3 million unauthorized
immigrants currently living in the United States within a few years of taking
office, as he had promised to do earlier in the campaign? Not on his own.
Removals on a mass scale would require creating a deportation force with the
authority to conduct daily raids on workplaces and homes, estimated to cost far
more than that wall - $400 billion or more.

Even Mr. Trump has backed away from his more extreme positions on mass
deportation. In a recent interview, the president-elect declared many
undocumented immigrants to be "terrific people" - a jarring sentiment from a man
who earlier said they all must go. He then explained that he would prioritize
the removal of the "2 or 3 million" unauthorized immigrants who, he claims, have
committed crimes. (That number is contested; the nonpartisan Migration Policy
Institute puts it at closer to 800,000.)

But even that scaled-back deportation plan would be expensive. Mr. Obama
deported more people than any other president, expending all available funds to
do so, and yet removed only about 400,000 people a year. Mr. Trump cannot deport
millions in short order unless he can get Congress to go along with his plan.

In part, this is because deportation is not as simple as Mr. Trump's rhetoric
suggests. Noncitizens living in the United States have statutory and
constitutional rights that must be protected in the removal process. They have
the right to a hearing before an immigration judge, representation by counsel
(if they can afford it), and they can appeal an adverse decision to a higher
level of the agency bureaucracy - a process that can take years in the
backlogged immigration courts.

Furthermore, federal law provides some particularly sympathetic undocumented
immigrants, such as trafficking victims and those eligible for asylum, the right
to remain in the United States. Unless Mr. Trump can get Congress to repeal
these laws, immigration officials can continue to use their discretion to give
relief to at least some of the undocumented immigrants that Mr. Trump seeks to
remove.

But there is one goal that Mr. Trump has already accomplished without the help
of any other branch of government: He has made immigrants afraid. Just a few
years ago, undocumented youth provided their names, addresses and even
fingerprints to the government in return for permission to live and work
temporarily in the United States. Now these same immigrants fear that the data
they handed over will be used to target them for removal.

Undocumented immigrants who have lived in the United States for years, with U.S.
citizen children and without a criminal record, were once a low priority for
removal. They woke up on Nov. 9 knowing this was no longer the case. Even legal
immigrants, such as the foreign students I teach, worry that they will be
expelled from the United States or denied reentry if they ever leave.

Perhaps this was Mr. Trump's intent all along. Even if he cannot quickly build a
wall or remove millions of unauthorized immigrants, he can instill fear, driving
some immigrants to leave and others not to come in the first place. Fear alone
can reduce immigration - both legal and illegal - without the federal government
spending a cent. For this, at least, Mr. Trump gets all the credit.

Amanda Frost is a professor of law at the American University Washington College
of Law. She wrote this for Slate's Jurisprudence feature.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Lachine

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 P.G. Publishing Co.


                             1238 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Election mourning and empowerment at Women of the Year event

BYLINE:  By SANDY COHEN Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 590 words


LOS ANGELES - Glamour magazine closed its 26th annual celebration of
trailblazing women with a star-studded tribute to Hillary Clinton.

Lena Dunham, Shonda Rhimes, Elizabeth Banks, Chelsea Handler, Ted Danson and
Constance Wu were among the entertainers who paid homage to the Democratic
presidential candidate at Glamour's Women of the Year Awards Monday in Los
Angeles. They listed Clinton's achievements and thanked her for her leadership
as a guitarist played a somber tune.

"We thank you for your composure, your compassion and your grace," Banks said,
"and for always looking so darn fierce in those freaking pantsuits."

Though Clinton wasn't in the audience, she was a presence throughout the
two-hour ceremony as presenters and recipients lamented her loss to Donald
Trump.

Actress Tracee Ellis Ross opened the evening by inviting guests to "make a
primal sound" in response to the election results: She demonstrated with an
exaggerated gagging noise.

Despite disappointment in Clinton's failure to become the country's first female
president, the tone was of empowerment and determined resolve as the magazine
recognized women for achievements in art, activism, sports and business. Bono
also received its first Man of the Year award.

Amy Poehler introduced the U2 frontman, who was recognized for his commitment to
gender equality through his ONE organization and its Poverty is Sexist campaign.

"There is nowhere on Earth where women have the same opportunity as men," Bono
said. "And unless we address this problem - both men and women together - our
world will continue down this misogynistic, violent and impoverished path."

Survivors of violence were also among the honorees Monday. Rashida Jones
introduced Nadia Murad, 23, who was saluted for her bravery and efforts to take
Islamic State to international criminal court. The extremist group murdered her
parents and made Murad a sex slave, but she escaped and is fighting for justice.

Stanford Law professor Michele Landis Dauber accepted an award on behalf of
Emily Doe, the woman who was sexually assaulted by Stanford swimmer Brock
Turner.

Actresses Gabourey Sidibe, Freida Pinto and Amber Heard read portions of Doe's
letter about Turner - the powerful condemnation that went viral in June.

One of the night's most poignant moments came when Rhimes recognized the
founders of Black Lives Matter. Citing statistics that say black people are
three times more likely to be killed by police officers than white people,
Rhimes described the three women behind the movement as "patriots."

Patrisse Cullors, Alicia Garza and Opal Tometi created Black Lives Matter after
the acquittal of Trayvon Martin's killer in 2013.

"These women have fundamentally altered the course of civil rights in America,"
Rhimes said. "I believe (they) are patriots in the strongest sense of the word,
for they are trying to form a more perfect union."

Laura Dern introduced lifetime achievement award recipient Christine Lagarde,
the first woman to head the International Monetary Fund, who urged audience
members to continue to work for gender equality.

"No matter what sorrow, sadness, and frustration we feel, we just have to
continue that fight," she said. "What I hope is that all the young girls, all
those yet to be born, will actually be empowered to be leaders: to be leaders in
finance, to be leaders in politics, to be leaders in anything that they choose
to accomplish, and will be free and will not be the victim of any
discrimination. That is really worth your time and your energy, and all of
mine."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Alicia Garza, from left, Patrisse Cullors and Opal Tometi, co-founders
of the Black Lives Matter movement, arrive at the Glamour Women of the Year
Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo
by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Lena Dunham arrives at the Glamour Women of the
Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles.
(Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Chelsea Handler arrives at the Glamour
Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los
Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Caitlyn Jenner arrives at the
Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14,
2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Jenna Dewan Tatum
arrives at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on
Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)
Cara Delevingne arrives at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse
Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan
Strauss/Invision/AP)  Joe Jonas arrives at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards
at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by
Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Chanel Iman arrives at the Glamour Women of the
Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles.
(Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Gwen Stefani arrives at the Glamour Women
of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los
Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Rashida Jones arrives at the
Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14,
2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Rachel Roy arrives
at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov.
14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Mindy Kaling
arrives at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on
Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)
Ali Hewson, from left, Bono and their daughters Eve Hewson and Jordan Hewson
arrive at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday,
Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Yara
Shahidi arrives at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood
on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)
Amber Heard arrives at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse
Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan
Strauss/Invision/AP)  Laura Dern arrives at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards
at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by
Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Shonda Rhimes arrives at the Glamour Women of the
Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles.
(Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Freida Pinto arrives at the Glamour Women
of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los
Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Chrissy Metz arrives at the
Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14,
2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Rowan Blanchard
arrives at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on
Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)
Cynthia Erivo arrives at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse
Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan
Strauss/Invision/AP)  Keke Palmer arrives at the Glamour Women of the Year
Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo
by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Simone Biles arrives at the Glamour Women of the
Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles.
(Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Kat Graham arrives at the Glamour Women
of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los
Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)  Alicia Garza, from left,
Patrisse Cullors and Opal Tometi, co-founders of the Black Lives Matter
movement, arrive at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards at NeueHouse Hollywood
on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, in Los Angeles. (Photo by Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1239 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

In new reality, Missouri Dems bank on revived blue-collar focus and `buyers'
remorse'

BYLINE:  By Kevin McDermott - St. Louis Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1214 words


ST. LOUIS - Surveying the wreckage of Election Day, Missouri Democrats trudge
toward a new year in which they will hold few levers of power and face one big
question: What now?

The answer that's emerging, according to party leaders, includes a renewed focus
on working-class issues, better communication of the party's strengths and an
unwavering certainty that Missouri voters will soon rethink putting the
Republicans so completely in charge.

"Buyer's remorse is coming," predicted Roy Temple, chairman of the Missouri
Democratic Party. "The priority is to, No. 1, hold the Republicans accountable.
They now have control over all the apparatus of government. They will
undoubtedly do foolish things, and when they do, Democrats need to point that
out."

That kind of political bravado is part of Temple's job, but even he acknowledges
what he calls the "structural problem" his Democrats face: With the party's
biggest names - Chris Koster, Jason Kander, Russ Carnahan - having just lost big
races, and with few paths for Democratic stars to rise in the
Republican-controlled Legislature, "we have fewer and fewer people in the farm
system."

"By 2018, voters may want a dramatic course correction" from total Republican
rule, said Temple. "The problem will be, there might not be very many Democrats
for them to vote for."

In a written statement, Missouri Republican Party Chairman John Hancock
indicated he wasn't concerned his party would overreach and spawn a voter
backlash.

"With economic growth and job-creating policies just around the corner, the
future is very bright for the people of Missouri and for the Missouri Republican
Party," Hancock said.

Of course, Democrats all over America are downcast since the Nov. 8 elections.
But by most measures, the plight of Missouri Democrats going forward is far
worse than that of the party nationally.

Democrat Hillary Clinton lost the White House, but she won the popular vote,
marking the fifth time in the past six presidential elections that more
Americans voted for the Democrat than the Republican. That doesn't alter the
outcome in the Electoral College, but it does signal future challenges for a GOP
that relies more heavily than ever today on white voters even as the country
turns increasingly nonwhite.

It's a different story in Missouri, where some key demographic groups -
including African-Americans and Hispanics - have barely edged up,
percentage-wise, from their lower-than-the-national-norm levels during the past
generation.

That probably helped Republican Donald Trump rout Clinton in Missouri on
Election Day by almost 20 percentage points, with a campaign that was targeted
toward stoking white resentment of liberal "political correctness" and illegal
immigration from Mexico. It was the widest margin of victory here in a
presidential race since Ronald Reagan's historic landslide over Walter Mondale
in 1984.

Trump's coattails were enormous. Bucking Missouri polls that had indicated
several tight races, Republicans easily swept all six statewide offices on the
ballot, including a crucial U.S. Senate seat, and held their veto-proof
majorities in both chambers of the Legislature.

"One of the lessons that was apparent to me was the importance of who is at the
top of the ticket," said Missouri state Rep. Tracy McCreery, D-Creve Coeur. In
the case of Clinton versus Trump, she said, that translated into "a lack of
urban turnout and an increase in rural turnout. [Trump] awoke a lot of people in
the rural areas who don't normally vote."

Hancock argues that the GOP's success here on Election Day wasn't just a matter
of Trumpian coat tails but also was due to strong state candidates and "a strong
commitment to conservative government" among the voters.

After the election winners are seated in January, the two lone Missouri
Democrats holding statewide elective office will be U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill,
who recently labeled herself the "underdog" when her seat comes up in 2018; and
state Auditor Nicole Galloway, who wasn't elected to that post but was appointed
by Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat, after the suicide in February 2015 of Auditor Tom
Schweich, a Republican.

McCaskill recently told the Post-Dispatch that Democrats had to do a better job
in convincing working-class voters that Democrats are on their side. "My party
has done a terrible job of communicating how hard we are working for people in
hourly jobs," she said.

Others in the party, both in Missouri and nationally, have echoed that
sentiment, after watching the Republicans snatch away what had been a key
Democratic voting bloc since the days of Bill Clinton.

"People, in their frustration, supported people who will be actively working
against their interests," said Temple, referring to working-class voters.
"Certainly, the Democrats need to be more effective at articulating that."

They may get that chance right off the bat, with the expected Republican move to
make Missouri a "right to work" state, weakening the bargaining power of labor
unions. It's part of a national partisan battle, with Republicans claiming it
will create jobs and Democrats warning it will lower wages.

The GOP-led Legislature has been trying for years to institute right to work
over the opposition of Nixon, the outgoing Democratic governor. Republican
Governor-elect Eric Greitens made his support for it a central pillar of his
campaign.

For the new, all-Republican Missouri government not to press it into law, and
quickly, would be a startling backtrack. But in doing it, they could find
themselves at odds with many of the blue-collar supporters who put them into
office.

On the other hand, said Dave Robertson, political scientist at the University of
Missouri-St. Louis, the fact that right-to-work is likely to be implemented
quickly could, in itself, make it harder for Democrats to organize their labor
allies around it in future elections.

"An issue like right-to-work can unite people" in the labor movement who are
against it, said Robertson. "But implementing right-to-work can certainly weaken
the labor unions, too," hitting Democrats in a key area of their support.

In addition to the urgency of winning back those working-class white voters,
Missouri Democrats have a special challenge in that they operate in a state
where the national Democrats' social-issue agenda simply won't fly.

"Clearly [Missouri] Democrats are going to have to take pretty moderate
positions and be open to coalitions with people who have strong opinions on gun
rights and abortion" that don't match the national Democrat Party's platform,
Robertson said.

"They need to focus on economic issues. All of those issues that were brought to
the floor by Trump are things that Democrats can address ... but they sort of
let that go."

McCreery acknowledged that the Nov. 8 outcome "was like getting the rug pulled
out from under us," especially in the wake of pre-election polls that showed
Clinton winning the presidency and Missouri Democrats with strong chances of
winning the governor's office, the U.S. Senate seat and other offices.

But when asked how Democrats can regroup after such a drubbing, she noted how
quickly a political party's fortunes can change. "A little while ago," she
noted, "most people were asking that same question about the demise of the
Republican Party."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Supporters of Missouri Democratic gubernatorial candidate Chris Koster
sit on the floor as they watch election returns Tuesday, Nov. 8, 2016, in St.
Louis. Koster has conceded defeat to Republican challenger Eric Greitens. (AP
Photo/Jeff Roberson)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1240 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Digest

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 488 words


Scientists urge Clinton recount

Hillary Clinton's campaign is being urged by a number of top computer scientists
to call for a recount of vote totals in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania,
according to a source with knowledge of the request.

The computer scientists believe they have found evidence that vote totals in the
three states could have been manipulated or hacked and presented their findings
to top Clinton aides on a call last Thursday.

The scientists, among them J. Alex Halderman, the director of the University of
Michigan Center for Computer Security and Society, told the Clinton campaign
they believe there is a questionable trend of Clinton performing worse in
counties that relied on electronic voting machines compared to paper ballots and
optical scanners, according to the source.

The group told John Podesta, Clinton's campaign chairman, and Marc Elias, the
campaign's general counsel, that while they had not found any evidence of
hacking, the pattern needs to be looked at by an independent review.

Judge who warned new citizens will retire - A federal magistrate judge in San
Antonio who told people at a citizenship swearing-in ceremony that they "need to
go to another country" if they object to Donald Trump's presidency now plans to
retire next year.

The San Antonio Express-News reports that U.S. Magistrate Judge John Primomo
disclosed his plans in a letter Tuesday to Western District federal judges and
the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. On Monday, the district judges barred
Primomo from presiding over future naturalization ceremonies.

Primomo has said his words were meant to be unifying and respectful of the
presidency, not political. He added he didn't vote for Trump.

University officer shot in Detroit - An officer who works for Wayne State
University in Detroit was shot in the head while on duty Tuesday near the campus
and was in critical condition, officials said.

The officer, a five-year veteran, was on patrol when he radioed, saying he was
investigating possible thefts of navigation systems from cars and SUVs, and was
about to speak to someone apparently on a bike, James Craig said.

Officers who arrived on the scene found the officer injured on the ground, Craig
said. The officer was in critical condition at a local hospital, officials said.

Zika-related defect may appear after birth - Researchers say a severe birth
defect caused by Zika infection may not be apparent at birth but develop months
afterward, further confirmation that the virus can cause unseen damage to
developing babies.

The findings come from a study of 13 Brazilian babies whose heads all appeared
normal at birth but then grew much more slowly than normal.

The babies had heads that were a little small at birth, but within the normal
range. Eventually, 11 were diagnosed with microcephaly, in which a baby's skull
is much smaller than expected because the brain hasn't developed properly.

From news services

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  This Nov. 21, 2016 photo provided by the Michigan Attorney General's
office shows former USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar, who pleaded not
guilty Tuesday, Nov. 22, 2016, to three counts of first-degree criminal sexual
conduct in his home with a girl under 13. Nassar, who was arrested Monday while
running an errand, was arraigned by video from jail. (Michigan Attorney
General's office via AP)  Dr. Larry Nassar appears during a video arraignment in
Mason, Mich., Tuesday, Nov. 22, 2016. Nassar, a former USA Gymnastics team
doctor, has pleaded not guilty to three counts of first-degree criminal sexual
conduct in his Michigan home with a girl aged 6 to 12. Nassar was arrested
Monday. (AP Photo/David Eggert)  FILE - In this July 15, 2008, file photo, Dr.
Larry Nassar works on the computer after seeing a patient in Michigan. Nassar, a
former USA Gymnastics team doctor, was charged Monday, Nov. 21, 2016, with
first-degree criminal sexual conduct in Michigan involving a child under 13.
(Becky Shink/Lansing State Journal via AP, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1241 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

How bad was it for Democrats on Nov. 8? Start with the U.S. House

BYLINE:  By Chuck Raasch St. Louis Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 599 words


WASHINGTON - Pending recounts, runoffs and challenges, Republicans are poised to
have a 241-194 advantage in the U.S. House of Representatives come January. But
that only tells part of the story of the GOP's dominance of the people's chamber
in the Nov. 8 elections.

More than half of the Democratic caucus in the House will come from just six
states: California, New York, Illinois, Florida, Texas and Massachusetts. One of
every four House Democrats will be from either California or New York.

Fundamentally, Missouri reflected broader trends across the country. It flipped
the governorship from Democrat to Republican, and the GOP held its dominance in
U.S. House seats, where it won six of eight, and in the state legislature.

Hillary Clinton won the popular vote on Nov. 8, rekindling a fresh debate about
the Electoral College. But down ballot, her Democratic Party suffered
resounding, and in some cases, historic losses.

Republicans will hold 39 of the 57 U.S. House seats in the Great Lakes-Rust Belt
states of Pennsylvania, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin, states that flipped from
Democrat to Republican in the presidential race, giving Donald Trump the
electoral votes necessary to become the next president.

Pending challenges and recounts, Republicans also won 13 of the 18 races
considered the closest going into Election Day.

And they dominated in U.S. House races in Eastern Seaboard states that Democrats
have touted as trending their way in presidential elections:

- In North Carolina, which ousted a Republican governor but was won narrowly by
Trump, Republicans will hold 10 of 13 House seats come 2017.

- In Virginia, a linchpin of Barack Obama's two presidential victories,
Republicans will have seven of 11 House seats. Clinton barely won the state
despite having popular Sen. Tim Kaine of Virginia as her running mate.

- In Georgia, which Clinton's camp was touting as a potential takeover of a
longtime Republican state and a harbinger of a big Clinton victory, Republicans
will hold 10 of 14 House seats.

Democrats did poorly even in big states with significant Hispanic populations,
and in swing states where Democrats were touting their House chances in tandem
with Clinton. Republicans will hold 25 of 36 Texas House seats, and 16 of 27 in
Florida.

Part of the GOP dominance is due to ideology, but some can be attributed to
favorable drawing of congressional district lines. And the Nov. 8 results on
state ballots paint a grim picture for Democrats hoping to redraw congressional
districts to their party's advantage.

State legislatures and governors control the drawing of congressional districts
in most states, and Democrats now control less than one-third of state
legislative bodies in the country.

Pending final certification, 33 of the 50 governors in 2017 will be Republicans.
Republicans flipped governorships in Missouri, Vermont and New Hampshire.
Democrats took the North Carolina governorship from a Republican incumbent.

Republicans have gained more than 800 state legislative seats during Obama's
presidency, and now have 4,160 of the 7,383 legislative seats around the
country, according to data supplied Wednesday by the National Conference of
State Legislatures. Republicans now control 66 of the 98 legislative chambers in
the country. In addition, the Connecticut Senate is tied and control of the New
York state Senate is still undecided, according to the NCSL.

And the Kentucky state House went Republican for the first time since 1921. This
now means that every legislative body in the Civil War-era South or border
states will be controlled by Republicans.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wis. speaks with reporters on Capitol Hill
in Washington, Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2016, after a House Republican leadership
meeting . (AP Photo/Cliff Owen)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1242 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

'Post-truth,' 'Brexit' are 2016 words of the year

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 891 words


Truth is dead. Facts are passe.

And the emoji is so last year.

Oxford Dictionaries has selected "post-truth" as 2016's international word of
the year, after the contentious "Brexit" referendum and an equally divisive U.S.
presidential election caused usage of the adjective to skyrocket, according to
the Oxford University Press.

Each year, the Oxford staff selects hundreds of words, then narrows that list
down through discussions about what words are going to best highlight the ways
in which the English lexicon is changing in response to current events.

The dictionary defines "post-truth" as "relating to or denoting circumstances in
which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than
appeals to emotion and personal belief."

In this case, the "post-" prefix doesn't mean "after" so much as it implies an
atmosphere in which a notion is irrelevant - but then again, who says you have
to take our word for it anymore?

Throughout a grueling presidential campaign in which accusations of lies and
alternate realities flowed freely, in every direction, hundreds of fact checks
were published about statements from both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.

Dozens of media outlets found that Trump's relationship with the truth was,
well, complicated.

"We concede all politicians lie," conservative columnist Jennifer Rubin wrote in
September. "Nevertheless, Donald Trump is in a class by himself."

"Post-truth" was selected after Oxford's dictionary editors noted a roughly
2,000 percent increase in its usage over 2015 - it was appearing with far more
frequency in news articles and on social media in both the United Kingdom and
the United States.

This year, the shortlist included "adulting" (often packaged into the phrase
"adulting so hard," as in, "I'm adulting so hard that I bought a leaf blower and
increased my contribution to my 401(k) retirement savings plan") and hygge,
which refers to a "comfortable conviviality and feeling of contentment" central
to Danish culture.

"Post-truth" also beat out finalist "alt-right," a shortening of "alternative
right" defined by Oxford as "an ideological grouping associated with extreme
conservative or reactionary viewpoints, characterized by a rejection of
mainstream politics and by the use of online media to disseminate deliberately
controversial content."

Dueling words

Another group of lexicographers has picked "Brexit" - a fixture in headlines
around the world throughout 2016 - as Word of the Year.

Brexit - a portmanteau word blending "Britain" with "exit" - describes the
U.K.'s impending departure from the European Union, in the wake of a
controversial referendum on the issue in June.

The team of lexicographers behind the Collins Dictionary say it is the most
visible English term of the past year.

"We believe that the obvious increased use of 'Brexit' (up 3,400% in 2016), its
significant impact in British politics and Britain's exit from the EU make it a
word not only primed for history books but also as Collins' Word of the Year,"
the team said in a statement.

The language experts looked at all English media - from newspapers, to radio and
social media - to draw their conclusion.

Brexit's roots can be traced back to 2012, when economist Ebrahim Rahbari coined
the term "Grexit" as a shorthand for "Greek exit," referring to Greece's
potential withdrawal from the eurozone as a result of its economic crisis.

But it is not the first time the world of politics has conjured up a word that
took on a life of its own.

The new 'Watergate'?

Back in 1972, "Watergate" became part of the Oxford English Dictionary after a
scandal that began with a burglary in the Washington Watergate Hotel led to the
eventual resignation of President Richard M. Nixon.

The "-gate" suffix has since been used to denote scandals from "winegate"
(chemicals used to transform vinegar into fake wine) to "horsegate" (frozen
lasagnas containing horse meat) and "bridgegate."

Helen Newstead, head of language content at Collins, believes Brexit will soon
overthrow Watergate.

" 'Brexit' is arguably politics' most important contribution to the English
language in over 40 years, since the Watergate scandal ... (and) 'Brexit' is
proving even more useful and adaptable," she said.

Some of the new words created from Brexit include "brexiteers" - those who voted
for the U.K. to leave the EU - and "bremorse" - the feeling of regret
experienced by those who chose to leave, and then changed their mind.

'Mic drop,' 'hygge' contenders

Besides Brexit, the team at Collins shortlisted other nine words as strong
contenders for the top prize.

"Trumpism" - a controversial statement attributed to U.S. president-elect Donald
Trump - was one of the most popular.

"Depending on your point of view, (Trumpism) can be held up either as evidence
of the man's ability to make America great again or else as proof of his
unfitness to hold the highest political office," explained the Collins' team.

"Mic drop" - "a theatrical gesture in which a person drops (or imitates the
action of dropping) a hand-held microphone to the ground as the finale to a
speech or performance" - as demonstrated by U.S. President Barack Obama at a
recent dinner also made the list.

Other top terms included "throw shade"; the Danish "hygge"; and "snowflake
generation" - new young adults who are seen as less resilient than previous
generations.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1243 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Editorial: Those who set the ethical standard must live by it. Trump included.

BYLINE:  By the Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 919 words


In modern American politics, we've come to accept that the double standard is
the only standard. When politicians on the other side do it, we condemn it
loudly. When our side practices a double standard, we find all kinds of ways to
deny or justify it. Either way, let's call it what it is: hypocrisy.

Democrats during the campaign were fond of accusing the news media of
establishing a false equivalency whenever reporters delved into the financial
underside of the Clinton Foundation or put presidential candidate Hillary
Clinton under the microscope for diverting her official emails to a private
server while working as secretary of state. To suggest that Clinton's actions
didn't deserve a full public airing is hypocrisy.

She was seeking the most important job in the land. To make informed decisions,
voters needed to know as much as possible about her bad judgment calls and
questionable dealings with foreign dignitaries who also happened to be big
donors to her family's foundation. That she was widely expected to win made it
all the more important.

Surprise. Clinton's loudest critic, of course, was Donald Trump, who is now
president-elect. During the campaign, the phrase "lock her up" was chanted at
countless rallies and encouraged among delegates during the Republican National
Convention.

Was it only Clinton whom those supporters wanted to hold to a singular form of
vigilante justice? Or did they propose to apply a legal standard to her that
they expect of all elected officials?

We'd like to believe it's the latter. The incoming president and his family have
an ongoing, complex web of business enterprises spanning the globe. The
potential conflicts of interest make the Clinton Foundation seem like a
schoolyard game of tiddlywinks.

Trump has yet to make public his tax returns, making it even harder to determine
where his business and official responsibilities might intersect. Any harsh
Clinton critic who argues that the overlap between Trump's business dealings and
his presidency doesn't matter is engaging in hypocrisy.

Trump now is receiving the same, daily top secret intelligence briefings that
President Barack Obama receives. He knows exactly where the most urgent global
threats are. The briefings might also offer hints of where potential business
opportunities are.

Yet Trump has not placed his business interests in a blind trust. In fact, amid
a flurry of interviews for Cabinet positions last week, the president-elect met
with a group of investors in a Trump property in India. It's not clear whether
any of the investors have links to Indian Prime Minister Narenda Modi, but Trump
was later quoted in an Indian business publication as expressing praise for the
prime minister. Why would the president-elect do that?

Trump also has a major golf resort on the coast of Scotland with unobstructed
views of the North Sea. The British government wants to install an offshore wind
farm nearby, something Trump has long opposed. The president-elect met days
after the election with Nigel Farage, head of the U.K. Independence Party, and
raised the issue specifically to lobby Farage to oppose the wind farm. He then
tweeted that Farage would make a fine British ambassador to the U.S.

Was the lobbying effort being done by President-elect Trump? Or by businessman
Trump? Or both?

The reason it matters is that President-elect Trump is now the beneficiary of
taxpayer dollars in terms of the intelligence briefings, Secret Service details
and transition services he enjoys. Just as it would have been unacceptable for
Hillary Clinton to mix her personal foundation activities with her official
duties as secretary of state, Trump must adhere to a higher standard. It should
at least be the same standard that he used to rally his supporters against
"corrupt Hillary."

Trump now says he will not press to have Clinton prosecuted, as he once
threatened. In the presidency, his own business conduct would fall into a legal
gray area. Congress would be crossing the dividing line with the executive
branch by attempting to legislate what the president can or cannot do in office.
At the same time, the Constitution's Emoluments Clause establishes clear limits
on the use of any public office for personal profit courtesy of foreign
governments.

The president-elect plans to hand over day-to-day management of his Trump
Organization companies to his children. He has looked into appointing his
son-in-law, Jared Kushner, as a senior adviser with a security clearance. That
would give Kushner access to secret information that also could be used to
advance Trump's business interests, which Kushner's wife and Trump's daughter,
Ivanka Trump, would help oversee.

To get a glimpse of the enormous ethical swamp that's developing, consider what
happened after Ivanka appeared with her father on CBS' "60 Minutes" program on
Nov. 13. Her company quickly alerted sales associates to a marketing opportunity
targeting customers interested in owning a replica of the $10,800 bracelet
Ivanka wore in the interview.

The company later retracted the alert, blaming it on an overzealous staffer. But
the incident was just a hint of the sleaze factor that could lie ahead and the
mind-boggling ethical boundaries now being put to the test. No president can
make his own rules.

The obvious answer is for Trump to establish a blind trust and to vow publicly
never to breach the boundary as long as he is president. The only business that
should ever be conducted by the American president is the public's business.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Jared Kushner and his wife Ivanka Trump walk through the lobby of
Trump Tower in New York, Friday, Nov. 18, 2016. (AP Photo/Richard Drew)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1244 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Report: Russian propaganda effort spread fake news

BYLINE:  Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 248 words


NEW YORK - A new report suggests a "sophisticated" Russian propaganda campaign
helped flood social media with fake news stories leading up to the presidential
election.

The Washington Post, citing a yet-to-be published report from independent
researchers, said the goal was to punish Hillary Clinton, help Donald Trump and
undermine faith in American democracy.

The report comes from a nonpartisan group of researchers called PropOrNot. The
group describes itself as "concerned American citizens" with expertise in
computer science, national security and public policy. The researchers say they
traced the origins of posts and mapped the connections among accounts that
delivered similar messages.

The findings show just how effective the bogus reports and propaganda were,
according to the report. PropOrNot estimates that on Facebook, stories planted
or promoted by the disinformation campaign were viewed 213 million times.

While it's not clear whether fake news and propaganda helped sway the election
in Trump's favor, millions of Americans get their news from what's shared on
Facebook and other social media. In recent months, fake and misleading stories
have proliferated, even as Facebook has insisted that they make up a tiny
fraction of the overall stuff users share on the site. Both Facebook and Google
have said they are taking steps to stop the spread of misinformation on their
sites.

PropOrNot did not immediately respond to a message asking for the report on
Friday afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Sunday, Oct. 9, 2016, file photo, Republican
presidential nominee Donald Trump and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary
Clinton speak during the second presidential debate at Washington University in
St. Louis. A "sophisticated" Russian propaganda campaign helped flood social
media with fake news stories during the election season, according to a new
report in The Washington Post. The Post says the goal was to punish Hillary
Clinton, help Donald Trump, and undermine faith in American democracy. (AP
Photo/John Locher, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1245 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Letters to the editor, Nov. 26

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1128 words


People suffer under Republican agenda

"We the People" could suffer according to the article "Rep. Wagner supports
Trump, ready to roll back regulations" (Nov. 18). Having received over a
reported $400,000 from the financial services industry, she is still trying to
reverse an administration regulation designed to protect us from unscrupulous
investment advisers.

In the same edition are two other articles on the subject. First, Edward Jones
is being sued by present and former employees who contend the company chose a
401(k) provider who is helping enrich the employer at the expense of the
employees - the exact regulation Rep. Wagner wants to eliminate. Second is the
article that JP Morgan has to pay $264 million in a bribery case. Honorable
people, right? Let's trust them with our retirement.

Rep. Wagner has a few other great regulations to eliminate, like Dodd-Frank, so
we can revisit 2008 when Wall Street executives got rich and millions of us lost
our jobs and homes.

Then the Republican big lie: Eliminate all (or, at least most) environmental
regulations. Remember recently when 200 countries came together in Paris over
environmental concern? That is 200 agreeing we have a serious problem.
Apparently only U.S. Republicans, who receive billions from the polluters, think
there is no problem.

Martin Walsh - Glendale

Learning to take a stand in Ladue

It was very heartening to see the photo Nov. 16 depicting a smattering of white
students joining the walkout of black students at Ladue High School following
the reports of racial incidents there. At the same time, it was also
disheartening to see such a small number of white students among the group.

Where was the support of their fellow students among the predominantly white
student body? What a great opportunity was missed for these young white
teenagers to take a stand, early in their lives, against bigotry and injustice.
Are we failing our students by not emphasizing in our schools the values of
courage and integrity and a willingness to take a stand?

Mary Simon - St. Louis

Overcoming racism through friendship

I am a recent immigrant to this nation, and I voted in the 2016 presidential
elections. I write to express my sincere gratitude and appreciation during this
Thanksgiving season for the enormous opportunities this nation has to offer me.

At a time when racial tensions are high in America, I write to let America know
about a kind, generous and altruistic American diamond transport pilot who
transformed my life when I was a 15-year-old poor boy in 1976 in my home country
of Sierra Leone.

Thomas Johnson, an American pilot who was employed to fly boxes of gems and
alluvial diamonds in Sierra Leone, two decades before the rebel war and
Hollywood movie "Blood Diamond," miraculously met and befriended me, and out of
his own goodwill and generosity he gave me generous support and opportunity for
better life. Johnson brought me to America and paid my college tuition in
Springfield, Mass., so I could realize the American dream.

Johnson didn't choose me without consideration for my race, but rather I think
he chose me because of it. Without him, my future prospects would have been
bleak. Our friendship transcended race and has built a positive connection
between races. We can overcome racism through friendship and positive
cross-cultural relationships.

Francis Mandewah - St. Louis County

Sultan's column could benefit broader readership

A letter writer (Nov. 15) complained about finding editorials everywhere in the
Post-Dispatch, offering as an example Aisha Sultan's columns in the Lifestyle
section.

May I suggest that the Post-Dispatch fix this problem, if it is a problem, by
offering Sultan a regular column located with other opinion columns on page 2 or
the op-ed page? Her fine columns can be read profitably by a broader readership,
particularly when many Americans need to learn more about Islam.

Emma Kafalenos - St. Louis

Address epidemic of opioid abuse in Missouri

Missouri's babies need our help. Every 25 minutes a baby is born who will
experience withdrawal from opioid drugs. They suffer from irritability,
high-pitched crying, tremors, vomiting and sleeplessness - a condition known as
neonatal abstinence syndrome. They spend weeks and sometimes months in the
neonatal intensive care unit to receive treatment for their symptoms.

We can help prevent this terrible suffering through early detection and
prevention of opioid dependency. Yet, Missouri continues to be the only state
that does not use a prescription drug monitoring program. These programs enable
pharmacies and physicians to prevent misuse and over-prescription of opioid pain
medications.

It is estimated that 14 percent to 22 percent of pregnant women will be
prescribed an opioid drug. For every $1 spent on opioid prescriptions, $50 is
spent caring for babies with withdrawal. It is estimated nationally that we
spend $720 million to $1 billion annually on the care of these babies.

Let's take the first step in addressing this epidemic. Contact your local
legislators in support of House Bill 1892, the Narcotic Control Act. I urge all
health care professionals to go to turnthetiderx.org and take the pledge to end
the opioid epidemic in our nation.

Jan Murphy - Imperial

Continue efforts toward energy efficiency

The city of St. Louis was just chosen as one of 10 new cities to join the City
Energy Project, an initiative seeking to promote efficiency through monitoring
("benchmarking") the emissions of commercial buildings in 20 cities nationwide.
Commercial buildings are some of America's biggest consumers of energy and are
responsible for large amounts of our country's carbon pollution, so setting
benchmarks for their carbon usage is a critical step.

Truly appreciating the benefits of this program, however, will require continued
efforts to reduce these emissions through increased energy efficiency and clean
energy programs. This is the path set forward by the Environmental Protection
Agency's Clean Power Plan.

According to a recent study from Georgia Tech University, the Clean Power Plan
would help owners and occupants of commercial buildings in Missouri realize an
average annual electricity savings of $109 million in the year 2030, compared to
the increased bills they would see if we move forward without the Clean Power
Plan. That's $109 million for new jobs and other economic investment.

Unfortunately, President-elect Trump has pledged to undo our current
pro-business climate policy. I hope Sens. Claire McCaskill and Roy Blunt will
see that programs like the City Energy Project and the Clean Power Plan are good
for the economy and the environment and will reject any efforts to dismantle
them.

Steve O'Rourke - St. Louis County

> Read more letters online at STLtoday.com/letters

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: LETTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1246 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Splurge or save? Holiday spending may hinge on how you voted

BYLINE:  By ANNE D'INNOCENZIO Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 779 words


NEW YORK - A divisive election that left half the country deflated and the other
half rejuvenated could reverberate through the holiday shopping season in the
kind of gifts people are giving or how much they spend.

Some retailers say they have seen a surge in feel-good items such as spa
treatments, candles and comfort food, while executives at some major retailers
such as Wal-Mart, Target and Macy's have said there's no discernible shift in
consumer behavior since the presidential election was won by Republican Donald
Trump.

The divide in the outlook may reflect the rift in the election, as Americans
split along geographic lines as well as by income.

"I don't need a comfort dog. I don't need anybody to feel sorry for me," said
Rhondi Bleeker, 50, of Totowa, N.J. "I'm actually happy because I was for
Trump."

Bleeker, who owns an eyelash extension business, believes the economy will be
better now. She says she'll still be spending the same $3,000 as she does every
holiday season, but she believes her business could do even better because
whether people are sad or happy, most will want retail therapy.

Some shoppers say they plan to divert money from traditional gifts such as
sweaters to donations to charity groups in their friends' or relatives' names.

Ryan Holmes of Chicago, who voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton, said he plans to
devote at least one-quarter of the $750 he typically spends on holiday gifts to
charitable giving. Even for gifts such as music or books, he says he can't help
but feel he might make a political statement such as perhaps giving a book on
climate change to educate a friend.

"I am frightened to what's to come, and sad and less hopeful," said Holmes, 34,
an urban planning consultant. But he added, "I'm feeling more engaged."

Shoppers have generally been moving away from buying "stuff" and more towards
spending on experiences. Factors from the weather to when Thanksgiving falls
already affect how stores fare at the holidays, and retailers are under intense
pressure from online sellers to offer low prices and convenience.

A dip in buying before a presidential election is normal as people are
distracted, but spending usually bounces back afterward.

Tamara Gaffney, principal analyst and director at Adobe Systems, an online
research company, said that between Nov. 1 and Nov. 14 this year, retailers lost
out on more than $800 million in online revenue, with the sharpest drop
happening after the Nov. 8 election. States that voted Democratic have seen the
biggest drops since the election, she said. Gaffney says she's waiting to see
how the Thanksgiving weekend plays out and may have to revise the original
holiday online sales growth forecast of 11 percent.

"We are in uncharted territory," said Gerald Storch, the CEO of Hudson's Bay
Co., which operates department stores under that name, Lord & Taylor and Saks
Fifth Avenue. "We will know more as we get past Black Friday."

The divide could play into the hands of retailers who customize goods to cater
to increasingly fragmented tastes.

"While some people might drive an election boost, there are going to be others
that will hold back," said Frank Badillo, director of research at consumer
research group MacroSavvy LLC. "The winners and losers are going to be divided
by category, by store, by different parts of the country."

Peter Gold, chief marketing officer at Market America's online marketplace
Shop.com, says since late October he's seen a sales surge in spa products,
candles and comfort food that he expects will continue through the holidays.

Products that bear words such as "hope" and "kindness" are seeing sales as much
as double since the election, says Lee Rhodes, founder and CEO of the nine-store
Glassybaby chain that sells handblown glass items. Those with themes such as
"elf" and "joy" have not kept pace.

Nielsen's most recent surveys have shown that food has catapulted into the No. 2
spot in terms of hot holiday gifts, past toys and consumer electronics this
season, said Jordan Rost of the company's consumer insights division. Gift cards
ranked first, as they have for several years. He said food is a safe bet for
retailers because millennials turn to comfort food when they are stressed, and
baby boomers turn to food as a reward.

Miriam Naficy, whose retail site Minted crowdsources stationery as well as art
and home decor, noticed a gap in what customers wanted in greeting cards. After
rising 9 percent since Oct. 1 in all states, the demand for the word "cheer," in
holiday cards has fallen 14 percent since the election. Demand for cards using
"peace," which is not usually as popular, was up 14 percent, and those using
"hope" rose 9 percent.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  In this Tuesday, Nov. 22, 2016, photo, Lee Rhodes, owner of
Glassybaby, holds one of her votive candle holders and several cards used for
individual descriptions of each holder made there, including "kindness,"
"comfort" and "hope," in her shop in Seattle. Rhodes says that she has seen her
products with the positive labels surge past holiday themes like "elf" and "joy"
since Election Day. (AP Photo/Elaine Thompson)  In this Tuesday, Nov. 22, 2016,
photo, Lee Rhodes, owner of Glassybaby, poses for a photo near votive candle
holders on display at her shop in Seattle. Rhodes says that she has seen her
products with positive labels such as "kindness," "comfort" and "hope," surge
past holiday themes like "elf" and "joy" since Election Day. (AP Photo/Elaine
Thompson)  In this Tuesday, Nov. 22, 2016, photo, customer Chris Connacher
carefully compares votive candle holders as she makes a Thanksgiving gift
purchase at the hand-blown glass shop Glassybaby, in Seattle. Shop owner Lee
Rhodes says that she has seen her products with the positive labels surge past
holiday themes like "elf" and "joy" since Election Day. (AP Photo/Elaine
Thompson)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1247 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fillon wins France's conservative presidential primary

BYLINE:  Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 506 words


PARIS - Francois Fillon won France's first-ever conservative presidential
primary Sunday after promising drastic free-market reforms and a crackdown on
immigration and Islamic extremism, beating a more moderate rival who had warned
of encroaching populism.

"President! President!" chanted the former prime minister's supporters as he
declared victory over Alain Juppe in a nationwide runoff election.

Polls suggest that Fillon, 62, the prime minister from 2007-2012 under
ex-President Nicolas Sarkozy, would have a good chance of winning the French
presidency in the April-May election.

Fillon campaigned on promises of slashing public spending, capping immigration,
support for traditional family values and friendlier ties with Russian President
Vladimir Putin. Fillon enjoyed a surprise surge in popularity in recent weeks
over longtime front-runner Juppe, who also previously served as the country's
prime minister.

In a sober victory speech, Fillon promised to defend "French values" and said
France needed "a complete change of software."

"There is in our country an immense need for respect and pride. There is also a
call for the authority of the state, and exemplary behavior by those who lead
it," he said.

Fillon, whom Juppe had accused of running a divisive campaign that catered to
the far right, struck a slightly more inclusive tone Sunday night.

"No one should feel excluded from a society that I want to see more just and
with more solidarity," he said.

Juppe, 71, congratulated Fillon on his "wide victory." During the primary
campaign, he expressed ideas similar to his rival's on the French economy but
tried to rally conservatives around a more tolerant attitude toward France's
ethnic, religious and social diversity.

Based on results from about 88 percent of polling stations, organizers of the
center-right Republicans party primary said Fillon led with 67 percent of the
vote compared with 33 percent for Juppe.

Fillon's toughest challenge ahead is likely to be far-right leader Marine Le
Pen. Le Pen is running an anti-establishment campaign that particularly targets
immigrants, France's large Muslim minority and the European Union.

Socialist President Francois Hollande is expected to announce in coming weeks
whether he will seek re-election, but the French left has been deeply weakened
by Hollande's extreme unpopularity.

Both Fillon and Juppe are high-profile leaders of the Republicans party who
knocked their former boss - former President Nicolas Sarkozy - out of the
primary's first round of voting a week ago.

Sarkozy then threw his weight behind Fillon.

Sunday's runoff came after a bruising and highly adversarial end phase to the
months-long primary contest, an American-style effort to end party infighting
and bolster support for the party's nominee. The conservatives previously chose
their candidate internally.

Fillon, a conservative Catholic who opposed France's law legalizing same-sex
marriages, said he planned to reduce immigration to France "to a minimum" -
positioning himself firmly to Juppe's right.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Francois Fillon delivers a speech after the conservative presidential
primary in Paris, Sunday, Nov. 27, 2016. Fillon won France's first-ever
conservative presidential primary after promising drastic free-market reforms
and a crackdown on immigration and Islamic extremism, beating a more moderate
rival who had warned of encroaching populism. (AP Photo/Christophe Ena)  Alain
Juppe, left behind, watches Francois Fillon leaving after the conservative
presidential primary in Paris, Sunday, Nov. 27, 2016. Fillon won France's
first-ever conservative presidential primary after promising drastic free-market
reforms and a crackdown on immigration and Islamic extremism, beating a more
moderate rival who had warned of encroaching populism. (AP Photo/Christophe Ena)
France's upcoming presidential primary election candidate of the right-wing
party, Francois Fillon, centre, leaves after casting his vote for the second
round of the conservative primary election, in Paris, Sunday, Nov. 27, 2016.
French conservatives on Sunday are choosing their nominee for next year's vital
presidential election from among two former prime ministers with deep experience
in government and differing views on how to prevent more terror attacks on
French soil. (AP Photo/Thibault Camus)  Alain Juppe, left, shakes hands with
Francois Fillon after the conservative presidential primary in Paris, Sunday,
Nov. 27, 2016. Fillon won France's first-ever conservative presidential primary
after promising drastic free-market reforms and a crackdown on immigration and
Islamic extremism, beating a more moderate rival who had warned of encroaching
populism. (AP Photo/Christophe Ena)  Alain Juppe reacts at his campaign
headquarters after the announcement of results in the conservative party's
national primary election in Paris, Sunday, Nov. 27, 2016. Francois Fillon won
France's first-ever conservative presidential primary after promising drastic
free-market reforms and a crackdown on immigration and Islamic extremism,
beating a more moderate rival who had warned of encroaching populism. (AP
Photo/Christophe Ena)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1248 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Editorial: Trump, feelings hurt by recount, lashes out unpresidentially

BYLINE:  By the Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 471 words


Donald Trump was offered an early holiday present this weekend: an opportunity
to act like a statesman and begin healing this fractured nation. Instead the
president-elect reached for his smartphone and tweeted a gratuitous
overstatement and fat falsehood:

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."

Trump's Electoral College margin of 306 to 232 over Democrat Hillary Clinton
hardly qualifies as a landslide. Eight of the 17 elections since 1952 alone have
been won by wider electoral margins, including the two won by Barack Obama.

But even if you spot him "landslide," you can't forgive the "millions of people
who voted illegally." There is simply no factual evidence to support that. None.
Zero. To state otherwise perpetuates the lie about a "rigged election" that was
Trumpeted during the campaign until he, oops, won the presidency. It further
undermines faith in the democratic process, not to mention his own credibility.

Democrats may be inept, but if they were going to rig an election, they would
have rigged it so their candidate won.

But the Green Party has a history of questioning the integrity of electronic
voting machines. And given that U.S. intelligence agencies have stated flatly
that the Russian government interfered with the election - though the agencies
haven't alleged that voting was hacked - the Green Party's presidential
candidate, Jill Stein, is challenging the election results in Wisconsin. Results
in Pennsylvania and Michigan may also be challenged. Trump won all three states
by a combined 100,000 votes.

Will the recount flip enough votes to overturn the election? No previous recount
has changed that many votes. But after the Clinton campaign said it would
participate in the election to protect its interests, Trump went ballistic,
tweeting "The Green Party scam to fill up their coffers by asking for impossible
recounts is now being joined by the badly defeated & demoralized Dems."

Clinton now holds a 2.2-million-vote margin over Trump in the popular vote,
something that apparently touches Trump's deep insecurities. He felt moved to
explain by tweet:

"It would have been much easier for me to win the so-called popular vote than
the Electoral College in that I would only campaign in 3 or 4 states instead of
the 15 states that I visited. I would have won even more easily and convincingly
(but smaller states are forgotten)!"

Here's a man who's been elected to the most powerful office in the world and,
instead of focusing on the job at hand, he's spending his time whining. Perhaps
he thinks it will distract Americans from news reports about his very real
financial conflicts of interest. Perhaps he just needs ceaseless affirmation.
Either way, he's not looking very presidential.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Donald Trump on the campaign trail. He was elected. Apparently that's
not enough. (AP photo)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: EDITORIAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1249 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

St. Louis protesters for minimum wage hike arrested for blocking traffic at
Hampton near I-44

BYLINE:  By Kim Bell  St. Louis Post-Dispatch Christine Byers and Ashley Lisenby
of the Post-Dispatch contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 1230 words


LOS ANGELES - U.S. workers from fast-food chains and nearly 20 airports staged
sit-ins and some were arrested in nationwide protests for higher pay, union
rights and immigration reform on Tuesday, their first major action since
businessman Donald Trump won the presidential election.

McDonald's Corp. restaurants in 340 cities were prime rally targets, while
baggage handlers and cabin cleaners at Chicago's O'Hare and Boston's Logan
international airports were due to demonstrate in support of workers demanding
starting pay of $15 per hour, organizers of the "Fight for $15" campaign said.

More than 200 protesters gathered before dawn at Zuccotti Park in New York
City's Financial District, the site of a camp set up in 2011 by Occupy Wall
Street demonstrators, where they banged drums and chanted slogans calling for a
$15 minimum wage.

About a dozen protesters were arrested after they blocked morning rush-hour
traffic in the street near a McDonald's restaurant.

"When we started demanding $15 ... people thought we were crazy, but we were
just demanding the basic minimum to survive," said protestor Alvin Major, 50, a
Guyanese immigrant who lives in Brooklyn and works at a KFC restaurant.

"Right now I can barely pay my bills," said Major, who has four children and a
sick wife.

Some 34 people were arrested in Cambridge, Mass., when they blocked traffic
following a march that began at a McDonald's restaurant, the city's police
department said on Twitter. The march, which drew about 100 people, was
otherwise peaceful, police said.

Home health and child care providers, and some drivers for ride service Uber
Technologies Inc were planning to join the action, which is backed by the
Service Employees International Union.

Last year Trump said U.S. workers' wages were "too high" and made the nation
uncompetitive, but this year, he has said the minimum wage should rise, with
states taking the lead.

Hopes of an increase in the $7.25-per-hour federal minimum wage were dashed
earlier in November by the election of a Republican-controlled Congress, but
advocates say they will continue to press for increases at state and local
levels.

"We've already run a path to $15 (per hour) in states like California and New
York, and we're not stopping now," said LiAnne Flakes, a 40-year-old child care
worker from Tampa, Fla., who said she planned to protest.

Voters in Arizona, Colorado, Maine and Washington raised their state minimum
wages in November, and labor groups are considering campaigns in states
including New Jersey, Pennsylvania and New Mexico.

Hector Figueroa, president of 32BJ SEIU in New York, said Trump won the election
by promising jobs for voters who were not able to see a way toward success for
themselves or their children.

"There is no question to us that this is a moment that working people need to
take action, mobilize, organize, and that (Trump) needs to be held accountable
for his promises," Figueroa said.

Protest organizers have also criticized Trump's pledge to deport up to 3 million
undocumented workers with criminal records, as well as his treatment of women
and Muslims.

McDonald's said in a statement that it invested in its workers by helping them
to earn degrees and on-the-job skills. Franchisees, which own most U.S.
fast-food restaurants, set wages for their employees. - Reuters

ST. LOUIS - St. Louis police arrested nearly 30 people Tuesday evening outside
the McDonald's restaurant on Hampton Avenue near Interstate 44 as part of a
national day of protests for a $15 minimum wage.

Police Chief Sam Dotson had warned protesters they would be arrested for
blocking the street.

At 5:30 p.m. about 200 protesters began marching around the McDonald's before
people willing to be arrested broke off to sit in the street.

"Folks are trying to survive on $7.65 an hour; that's just simply not enough,"
said a clergyman who joined those who were arrested.

Dotson said earlier in the day that the city supports a wage increase and there
are laws already in place to address the issue.

"Our city is one of the most progressive cities in the state," Dotson said. "We
already passed laws to increase the minimum wage, so why are you impacting
families trying to get home to get their kids to sporting events in a community
that's already heard and agrees with your message?

"My job is to make sure those groups have the opportunity to their have message
heard ... but this will require resources to open traffic on Hampton Avenue, and
those resources are better spent in neighborhoods, not dealing with protests for
something our community has already said 'Yes' to."

But Betty Douglas, 59, said the $7.90 she makes at the McDonald's on Hampton is
not enough to care for her family, which includes a 16-year-old son with autism.

"They just can't walk over us," Douglas told the crowd.

Douglas said she has worked nearly every position at the McDonald's over the
last nine years and has gotten a raise of only 65 cents an hour in that time.

She said her boss at McDonald's doesn't like that she participated in the march.

"They're angry with me," she said. "I'm angry too."

Earlier Tuesday, protesters shut down the McDonald's in downtown St. Louis
during morning rush hour.

Police stood by as the 100 or so protesters marched, chanted and held signs
outside the restaurant at 1119 North Tucker Boulevard. Managers had closed the
dining area, and protesters blocked the drive-through for about a half-hour
starting at 7 a.m. No one was arrested.

They swarmed the window, chanting at the workers inside: "Come on out, we've got
your back."

The "Fight for $15" rally marks four years since a group of workers walked out
of their fast-food jobs in New York City, sparking a movement. The federal
minimum hourly wage is $7.25, although there are higher minimums in some states.
Missouri, for example, is now at $7.65 an hour minimum wage but will increase it
to $7.70 next year.

There were similar protests planned for 340 cities Tuesday morning, including in
New York where more than two dozen protesters were arrested after they linked
arms and blocked morning rush-hour traffic, according to news reports.

Frances Holmes, 53, of St. Louis, said Tuesday's effort was her fifth strike in
recent years. She said she works at a Webster Groves fast-food restaurant,
making $9 an hour. She was one of three people on her morning shift who skipped
work to protest.

Holmes took glee in seeing the protesters block the drive-through lanes and
force the restaurant to close its dining room.

"That let them feel what we feel, no money coming in," she said.

Holmes, who used to work at the restaurant on Tucker, estimated the store would
lose $1,000 an hour during the shutdown.

Javen Goode, 18, was among the protesters. Goode lives in Florissant with his
mother. He makes $8 an hour at Subway.

"(Fifteen dollars) an hour would give me a chance to move out," said Goode, who
dreams of moving to California and designing computer games.

In a statement, McDonald's spokesperson Terri Hickey said, "We take seriously
our role in helping strengthen communities as we and our franchisees separately
employ hundreds of thousands of people, providing many with their very first
job."

Hickey added that the company offers its workers the opportunity to develop
skills they can use to build careers beyond fast food. The company invests in
Archways to Opportunity, programs that provide tuition assistance.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  A demonstration of about 200 people calling for a higher minimum wage
blocks rush hour traffic in the 1400 block of Hampton Avenue on Tuesday, Nov.
29, 2016, in St. Louis. Several dozen people were arrested. Photo by Christian
Gooden, cgooden@post-dispatch.com  Jahbari Morris, a Taco Bell employee, repeats
a chant during a minimum wage demonstration in the parking lot of a McDonald's
in the 1400 block of Hampton Avenue in St. Louis on Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016.
Several hundred protesters subsequently shut down down Hampton for about 25
minutes during rush hour and several dozen people were arrested. Photo by
Christian Gooden, cgooden@post-dispatch.com  Frances Holmes is led away by
police as several dozen protesters are arrested during a minimum wage
demonstration in the 1400 block of Hampton Avenue in St. Louis. Several hundred
protesters shut down the street for about 25 minutes during rush hour. Photo by
Christian Gooden, cgooden@post-dispatch.com  Yalanda Morris, 26, of St. Louis,
an employee at Steak 'n Shake, joins a group of mostly fast food workers in
protest outside McDonald's on 1119 North Tucker Boulevard in St. Louis, asking
for a raise in the minimum wage to $15 an hour on Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016. Photo
by Cristina M. Fletes, cfletes@post-dispatch.com  Desmond Settles, 2, joins mom,
Dearia Grice, an employee at Wendy's and Hardees, and a group of mostly fast
food workers in a protest outside McDonald's on 1119 North Tucker Boulevard in
St. Louis asking for a raise in the minimum wage to $15 an hour on Tuesday, Nov.
29, 2016. Photo by Cristina M. Fletes, cfletes@post-dispatch.com  James Jones,
33, of St. Louis, leads a group of mostly fast food workers in chants during an
act of civil disobedience outside McDonald's on 1119 North Tucker Boulevard in
St. Louis as workers ask for a raise in the minimum wage to $15 an hour on
Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016. Photo by Cristina M. Fletes, cfletes@post-dispatch.com
A protester glances inside the drive thru window of McDonald's on 1119 North
Tucker Boulevard in St. Louis, as a group of mostly fast food workers engaged in
civil disobedience to ask for a raise in the minimum wage to $15 an hour on
Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016. Photo by Cristina M. Fletes, cfletes@post-dispatch.com
A group of mostly fast food workers engage in civil disobedience outside
McDonald's on 1119 North Tucker Boulevard in St. Louis, asking for a raise in
the minimum wage to $15 an hour on Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016. Photo by Cristina M.
Fletes, cfletes@post-dispatch.com  Timothy Owens (far right), 31, of Wellston,
an employee at McDonald's, joins a group of mostly fast food workers in protest
outside McDonald's on 1119 North Tucker Boulevard in St. Louis, asking for a
raise in the minimum wage to $15 an hour on Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016. Photo by
Cristina M. Fletes, cfletes@post-dispatch.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1250 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Nation briefs

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 563 words


Protest spurs state to borrow $7 million

North Dakota leaders will borrow an additional $7 million to cover the cost of
law enforcement related to the ongoing protest of the four-state Dakota Access
oil pipeline.

The state's Emergency Commission voted Wednesday to borrow the funds from the
state-owned Bank of North Dakota. The commission is headed by Gov. Jack
Dalrymple.

The group earlier approved $10 million in emergency spending.

Officials say the new loan should cover the state's cost of policing protests
over the $3.8 billion pipeline through December.

Trump alma mater adopts sanctuary policy - President-elect Donald Trump's alma
mater has renewed its pledge to block federal agents without a warrant from
removing students in the country illegally.

University of Pennsylvania President Amy Gutmann released a letter Wednesday
that echoes sanctuary policies in place at a growing number of U.S.
universities.

During his campaign, Trump pledged to launch a "deportation force" and end the
practice of granting temporary status to students in the U.S. illegally. Trump
and three of his children are Penn graduates.

Stein requests recount of Michigan vote - Green Party presidential nominee Jill
Stein on Wednesday requested a full hand recount of Michigan's presidential
vote, making it the third state narrowly won by Republican Donald Trump where
she's asked for another look at the results.

Stein previously requested recounts of the presidential votes in Pennsylvania
and Wisconsin.

President-elect Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton by 10,704 votes out of
nearly 4.8 million ballots cast in Michigan, but Stein alleges that
irregularities and the possibility that vote scanning devices could have been
hacked call the results into question.

Terrorists may have inspired Ohio State attacker - A Somali-born student who
carried out a car-and-knife attack at Ohio State University may have been
inspired by the Islamic State and a former al-Qaida leader, investigators said
Wednesday.

Law enforcement officials said it was too soon to say that the rampage that hurt
11 people on Monday was terrorism. They said they were not aware of any direct
contact between the Islamic State and the attacker.

"We only believe he may have been inspired" by the group and Anwar al-Awlaki, an
American-born cleric who took a leadership role in al-Qaida before being killed
in 2011, said Angela Byers, an FBI agent leading the investigation.

Abductors branded California woman - The abductors of a California woman who was
held captive for three weeks branded her with a message before she was dropped
along the side of a freeway on Thanksgiving, a sheriff said Wednesday.

The suspects may have been trying to humiliate and wear down Sherri Papini by
cutting off her long hair and branding her, Shasta County Sheriff Tom Bosenko
told "Good Morning America."

Papini disappeared while jogging Nov. 2 near her home in Redding, about 140
miles north of Sacramento. She was released along Interstate 5 near Sacramento.

Women's march could include entertainers - Organizers of a planned women's march
on Washington say they expect high-profile speakers and big-name entertainers to
be part of the program on the day after Donald Trump's inauguration.

Linda Sarsour, a march organizer, said the march would send a message that
black, Hispanic and Muslim women will stand up to the Trump administration.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  In this Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016 photo, the Oceti Sakowin camp where
people have gathered to protest the Dakota Access pipeline is seen near Cannon
Ball, N.D. North Dakota leaders have approved an emergency request to borrow an
additional $7 million to cover the cost of law enforcement related to the
ongoing protest of the four-state Dakota Access oil pipeline. The state's
Emergency Commission voted Wednesday, Nov. 30, to borrow the funds from the
state-owned Bank of North Dakota. (AP Photo/David Goldman)  ADDS NAME - In this
Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016 photo, Damin Radford of New Zealand stands overlooking
the Oceti Sakowin camp where people have gathered to protest the Dakota Access
pipeline near Cannon Ball, N.D. North Dakota leaders have approved an emergency
request to borrow an additional $7 million to cover the cost of law enforcement
related to the ongoing protest of the four-state Dakota Access oil pipeline. The
state's Emergency Commission voted Wednesday, Nov. 30, to borrow the funds from
the state-owned Bank of North Dakota. (AP Photo/David Goldman)  In this Tuesday,
Nov. 29, 2016 photo, Blackhorse Shasta, of Oregon, chops wood on the Oceti
Sakowin camp where people have gathered to protest the Dakota Access pipeline
near Cannon Ball, N.D. "It's beautiful," said Shasta of the recently fallen
snow. "It's bringing us together to make sure we're all taken care of to stay
warm and stay safe." (AP Photo/David Goldman)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1251 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Despite uproar, N.Carolina governor rivals use private email

BYLINE:  By EMERY P. DALESIO Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 594 words


RALEIGH, N.C. - Republican incumbent Pat McCrory and his Democratic opponent in
the undecided North Carolina governor's race have together sent or received
hundreds of messages from private email accounts -a sidestep around official
communication channels that McCrory's team blasted as "questionable" in a
comparison to Hillary Clinton.

McCrory and Attorney General Roy Cooper - locked in a hotly contested race, with
Cooper leading by just over 10,000 votes of more than 4.7 million cast and a
state recount possible - each conducted state business via their private emails,
The Associated Press learned from documents provided under North Carolina's
public records law.

Staffers for both candidates have lagged in producing the emails as required by
state law and won't say when they will fully comply with AP requests made months
ago. The AP sought from both men personal emails they sent or received across
state servers between Election Day four years ago and the end of last year.

That delay comes despite an updated email management system installed in 2014
that allows the retrieval of almost any email sent through state government
servers within minutes, said Tracy Doaks, the state's deputy chief information
officer.

In response to the AP requests, aides for McCrory and Cooper said they culled
the private messages for information that the law allows to be withheld or
requires kept secret. It's impossible to know how much communication they have
withheld.

"Our office does not release records without a thorough review for personnel
information, attorney-client privileged information, criminal record
information, and/or personal financial information," Cooper spokeswoman Noelle
Talley wrote in an email.

McCrory's staff stopped in September providing the private email records sought
by the AP and wouldn't respond when asked about their progress. Talley said in
October that she couldn't estimate how many more of Cooper's personal emails
involving state business were yet to be produced.

Cooper had sent only a handful of emails using his official state account in the
16 years he has been the state's top prosecutor. Talley said Cooper preferred
communicating in person or by phone but wouldn't respond when asked whether the
Democrat minimized his use of official email in preference to his private
account.

Clinton, the Democratic presidential candidate, was attacked by Republicans
throughout the campaign for maintaining a private email server during her time
as secretary of state and for refusing to release some personal emails. The
State Department's inspector general found that Clinton broke department rules
when she used private email for government business, concluding that she created
a security risk and violated transparency and disclosure policies. Clinton said
she did nothing wrong.

Public officials who communicate through private emails may be trying to
circumvent public records laws or just seeking greater convenience, said
Jonathan Jones, director of the North Carolina Open Government Coalition at Elon
University. Either way, as Clinton's email controversy showed, it fosters
mistrust if private email leaves the account holder in control of what is
publicly released, Jones said.

"I think to a lot of citizens, that's why it matters," Jones said. "They're
bothered by an air of secrecy."

The practice of skirting official email accounts and communicating privately has
been employed by politicians of both major parties, including former Republican
Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Chicago's Democratic mayor, Rahm Emanuel.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE- In this file photo taken Tuesday, Oct. 11, 2016 North Carolina
Republican Gov. Pat McCrory speaks during a debate at Research Triangle Park,
N.C. North Carolina's too-close-to-call Governor's race won't have a final tally
on Friday, Nov. 18 as the state had hoped or perhaps anytime soon because of
delays in deciding which ballots should count. (AP Photo/Gerry Broome, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1252 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Dictionary.com's word of the year is 'xenophobia'

BYLINE:  By LEANNE ITALIE Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 422 words


NEW YORK - You might have thought about it, heard it. A lot. You might have even
felt it: Dictionary.com's word of the year is "xenophobia."

While it's difficult to get at exactly why people look up words in dictionaries,
online or on paper, it's clear that in contentious 2016, fear of "otherness"
bruised the collective consciousness around the globe.

The Brexit vote, police violence against people of color, Syria's refugee
crisis, transsexual rights and the U.S. presidential race were among prominent
developments that drove debate - and spikes in lookups of the word, said Jane
Solomon, one of the site's lexicographers.

The 21-year-old site defines xenophobia as "fear or hatred of foreigners, people
from different cultures, or strangers." And it plans to expand its entry to
include fear or dislike of "customs, dress and cultures of people with
backgrounds different from our own," Solomon said.

The word didn't enter the English language until the late 1800s, she said. Its
roots are in two Greek words - "xenos," meaning "stranger or guest," and
"phobos," meaning "fear or panic," Solomon added.

The interest was clear June 24, within a period that represents the largest
spike in lookups of xenophobia so far this year. That was the day of Brexit,
when the UK voted to leave the European Union.

Searches for xenophobia on the site increased by 938 percent from June 22 to
June 24, Solomon said.

Lookups spiked again that month after President Barack Obama's June 29 speech in
which he insisted that Donald Trump's rhetoric was not a measure of "populism,"
but "nativism, or xenophobia, or worse."

Solomon added that chatter about xenophobia went beyond the spikes. "It has been
significant throughout the year," she said. "But after the EU referendum,
hundreds and hundreds of users were looking up the term every hour."

Robert Reich, who was President Bill Clinton's labor secretary, felt so strongly
about xenophobia's prominence that he appears in a video for Dictionary.com
discussing its ramifications. "I don't think most people even know what
xenophobia is," said Reich, who teaches public policy at the University of
California, Berkeley. "It's a word not to be celebrated but to be deeply
concerned about."

The word and the sentiment reflect a broader mournful tone to 2016, with Oxford
dictionary editors choosing "post-truth" as their word of the year, often
described in terms of politics as belonging to a time in which truth has become
irrelevant.

"I wish," Solomon said, "we could have chosen a word like 'unicorns.'"

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  This screen image released by Dictionary.com shows the definition of
xenophobia, named as word of the year. Searches for xenophobia on the site
increased by 938 percent from June 22 to June 24, Solomon said. Lookups spiked
again that month after President Obama's June 29 speech in which he insisted
that Donald Trump's campaign rhetoric was not a measure of "populism," but
rather "nativism, or xenophobia, or worse." (Dictionary.com via AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1253 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Revolution, if it lasts

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 834 words


Most of us won't live to see another election like the Trump triumph of 2016.
Having never worked for the government a day in his life, the Manhattan mogul
became the first true outsider to win the presidency.

The globalists saw their candidate of choice crushed at the top of the ticket in
historic fashion because middle America can no longer stomach the rotten fruit
of open borders and "free trade."

It was blue-collar voters in the so-called Rust Belt who put Trump over the top,
making him the first GOP presidential candidate in 28 years to win Pennsylvania,
Michigan and Wisconsin. They also gave him GOP majorities in both houses of
congress, something not achieved by a first-time Republican presidential
candidate since Herbert Hoover in 1928. A class of voters likely to be forever
after known as "Trump Democrats" gave the Party of Lincoln a mandate for an
America First agenda on the issues of the century: trade and immigration.

Now comes the hard part for President Trump: governing. The swamp is filled with
avaricious alligators, and it won't be easily drained. The top congressional
posts will still be controlled by the loyal lieutenants of the Washington Cartel
who got us into our present quagmire, including Speaker Paul Ryan and, of
course, Bill Shuster.

The most important item on Trump's agenda is term limits, because it is the
linchpin of a lasting shift from globalism and corruption back to the economic
patriotism and civic virtue upon which our nation was built. Yet Ryan, Shuster
and other "old bulls" will do everything they can to derail term limits. Their
first priority, unbelievably, is another $1 trillion, Obama-style "stimulus"
that will increase our already enormous national debt.

We Americans mustn't make the mistake of thinking our job is done with the
election of Trump. He is a dynamic leader with a bold agenda that can make
America great again, but the career politicians in Congress still have their
interests, not the country's, foremost at heart. So we must watch them like a
hawk.

Art Halvorson, former candidate for Congress

In for a surprise?

I've been watching a news channel this afternoon, and it is so interesting to
watch people being interviewed, who several weeks ago, had many negative remarks
about Donald Trump! Now, they can't say enough good about him! It's actually
enjoyable to see them flip-flop on their former acid remarks.

I hope that our country can come together, but that will never happen as we all
know. It would be nice to pull together and we should include the college
students who shed tears, in horror, when Donald was elected. They need to dry
their tears and get busy with their college exams and buck up!

It's not the end of the world! You are living in an exciting time in your life,
so please be aware of what you are doing and, after graduation, do what you can
to make the world a better place. Remember your ancestors who helped to build
this country, be proud of your heritage and deal with this historic event.

This country has a way of surviving, so let's get behind these people who are
going to be our leaders and watch what happens. It won't be a perfect
administration, but a lot of Americans may be in for a surprise, whether good or
bad. Pray for our leaders and may God bless all people!

Georgianna L. Hoffeditz, Chambersburg

The media lied

If you voted for Hillary you are scared. Because for the last five months you
have been a victim of the biggest propaganda scheme in U.S. history.

Main Street Media spent nearly $10 billion creating a safe space, a pro-Hillary
echo-chamber on TV, on Facebook, on Twitter, in your favorite newspaper. They
rigged polls with massive oversampling of Democrats to create the illusion
Hillary would win, completely censored trending news articles and pro-Trump
hashtags from social media, paid thousands of people to post pro-Hillary
comments and pretend to be "normal" voters.

They blatantly one-sided every source of news you trusted and relied on to be an
informed citizen.

So when Trump won, you were blindsided, you had absolutely no clue he had as
much support as he did. The media said he was evil, racist, sexist, a sexual
predator, Hitler, and Satan himself. They said he had less than a 1% chance of
winning all the way up to election night.

You are scared for the same reason that he won.

The media lied to you.

Gary Jones, Waynesboro

Experiment failed

Am I to assume that in winning the presidential election Donald Trump is somehow
absolved of all guilt for the filth that has spewed from his mouth over the past
18 months? Has he, in an instant, gained the stature expected of one who holds
the highest office in our nation? Can we now point to him with pride and tell
our children and grandchildren that his is the image they should emulate?

America took a dangerous step down a dark path Nov. 8. Any illusions of being
able to posture as an example for the rest of the world to follow were
shattered. The noble experiment begun in 1787 has failed.

Jack Shoemaker, Fayetteville

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cpo


                         Copyright 2016 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1254 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Tweets fly in Trumpland

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 747 words


It's 3 a.m. and Donald Trump can't sleep.

Restless, he tosses between Egyptian cotton sheets. The sweat builds on his
forehead. His teeth grind. A tinpot dictator in some far-flung land has made a
joke about his hands.

The rage builds. He reaches for the phone  on the nightstand. In the darkness,
Melania reaches out to steady his (perfectly adequately sized, he thinks) hand.

"Don't do it," she warns. "You'll regret it."

But she's  too late. His face flushes crimson with fury.

The anger fills him until it's an unstoppable firestorm. He grabs the phone,
swipes right, finds the app, and taps madly at the screen. Sweet release.

But it's not enough. The tweets pour out of him as the demons find voice.

An hour later, the bombs start to fall.

If you're thinking that's just a fever dream, think again.

The next Leader of the Free World, who has just weeks to fill his administration
and assemble a new government, set Twitter alight once again on Sunday, to
repeat a widely debunked claim that millions of people "illegally" voted for
Hillary Clinton and to mock a growing push for a recount in three battleground
states.

You'd think that Trump, who's facing a mutiny by campaign manager Kellyanne
Conway and who is contending with "Apprentice"-style jockeying for his Secretary
of State pick, would have better things to do than to take to Twitter to
excoriate the decision by Clinton's campaign to participate in a  recount in
Wisconsin.

"Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the
victory speech and after the results were in. Nothing will change," Trump
tweeted, of the recount spearheaded by Green Party presidential nominee Jill
Stein.

Trump's regurgitation of the fraud claim, proffered by such paranoia-traffickers
as InfoWars, added another layer of uncertainty to the already chaotic
post-election environment.

Whether the recount push will  be successful and result in any material change
in the  results seems remote at best.

But Trump's most recent Twitter storm is also occasion for again taking up a
question  raised during the campaign.

If this is how he reacts to an even minor slight to his prestige and titanic
ego, how will he react when he's seriously tested by crisis?

What happens when some foreign leader, possessed of  the right amount of bravado
and snark, actually provokes him or takes action against American interests
abroad?

Do we get Donald the Deal-Maker or The Incredible Trump, who turns  green,
smashing all in his path?

An object lesson, then:

No one in their right mind should mourn the passing of former Cuban dictator
Fidel Castro, who died Friday at 90 after outlasting 11 U.S. presidents and
repeated American attempts to drive him from power. He was a murderer and a
despot, and the world is well quit of him.

But there's a difference between diplomatically noting someone's passing and
grave-dancing, which is unbecoming from anyone, not least the leader of the
world's greatest democracy.

"Fidel Castro is dead!" he tweeted.

In a normal universe, foreign policy is too delicate and nuanced to conduct in
140-character bursts.

As we've been reminded time and again since Donald J. Trump sprung, fully formed
from the head of some god with a warped sense of humor, onto the American
political landscape last June, these are not normal times.

"If Cuba is unwilling to make a better deal for the Cuban people, the
Cuban/American people and the U.S. as a whole, I will terminate deal," Trump
tweeted on Monday morning.

The context-less Tweet appears to be a reference to Trump's campaign-season vow
to reverse the Obama administration's warming of relations between Cuba and the
U.S.

In the wake of Castro's death, Trump released a statement saying his incoming
administration would do "all it can" to improve the plight of Cuba and its
people.

Or, it might not. Who can tell?

International relations are far too important a subject area to be conducted by
someone whose ego bruises at the drop of a hat.

And that makes the search for a competent and credible Secretary of State
deserving of something far better than the sideshow treatment that it's
currently receiving.

Unfortunately, it's just another day in Trumpland, where we are now required to
check Twitter daily to find out if we've just insulted our way into an
international incident.

John L. Micek is the Opinion Editor and Political Columnist for PennLive/The
Patriot-News. Readers may follow him on Twitter @ByJohnLMicek and email him at
jmicek@pennlive.com

John Micek

Columnist

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cpo


                         Copyright 2016 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1255 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

The election really was rigged - by voter suppression

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 673 words


WASHINGTON - A voting scandal of epic proportion tilted this election.

No, I'm not talking about the recount the Clinton campaign joined in Wisconsin
and may seek in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Hillary Clinton and her aides were
correct before, when they said voting fraud is rare. The recounts won't change
the election's outcome. And after rightly criticizing Donald Trump for saying he
might not honor the election results, Clinton and her aides, who admit they have
no evidence of skullduggery, risk looking hypocritical.

Neither am I talking about Trump's outlandish and baseless claim that millions
of noncitizens and dead people voted illegally. That's as absurd as his
pre-election claims that the voting system was "rigged."

Both distract from the real scandal, which is happening in plain sight. Millions
of would-be voters didn't participate because of obstacles designed to
discourage them. The hurdles were, thanks to a 2013 Supreme Court ruling
invalidating key parts of the Voting Rights Act, largely legal.

Fourteen states had new voting restrictions in place for the first time in a
presidential election, and 20 have had such restrictions put in place since
2010, according to the Brennan Center for Justice, a group that opposes such
laws. These include strict photo-ID requirements, cutbacks in early voting and
new restrictions on registration. Other states are resisting efforts that would
make voting easier with same-day, online and motor-voter registration.

At the same time, the Leadership Conference Education Fund, a civil rights
group, found that counties previously covered by the Voting Rights Act have
closed down at least 868 polling places. The closures disproportionately affect
minority voters.

"We have across most states some significant element of voter suppression," says
Zoltan Hajnal, a University of California at San Diego political scientist
specializing in voting rights. "Over time these have shrunk the electorate in
significant ways and tilted the electorate toward the Republican Party."

The total number of would-be voters deterred is in the "millions," he said. "If
you were to superimpose the most liberal voting laws on all the states, it's
quite likely we would have had a different winner" on Nov. 8.

Though it's difficult to quantify the effect of voter suppression in 50 states,
Hajnal reports in a new study that after Texas implemented a strict voter-ID
law, Latino turnout dropped sharply between 2010 and 2014, and the gap between
white and Latino turnout increased by 9.2 percentage points.

Wisconsin adopted a tough photo-ID law, and in Milwaukee, where a large number
of African-Americans don't drive or have licenses, turnout declined in 2016 by
41,000 compared with 2012, a 15 percent drop.

"No matter how hard one tries to attribute this to lower voter interest in this
election, the stark drop must be attributable to impact of the photo-ID rule,"
argues Kristen Clarke, head of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under
Law.

Elsewhere, suppression efforts have grown more brazen. After a federal appellate
court knocked down North Carolina's voting restrictions because they targeted
black voters with "almost surgical precision," dozens of counties still cut
hours for early voting, which minority voters use disproportionately.

The Trump administration seems to be fine with holding back the tide. The man
picked to be attorney general, Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, has opposed even
legal immigration. And, according to a report this week by Scott Shane of The
New York Times, Stephen Bannon, Trump's pick to be the top White House
strategist, once mused to a co-worker that restricting voting rights of
African-Americans might not be "such a bad thing."

So let's not get distracted by Trump's fantastic claims of millions of illegal
votes, nor by Clinton's search for a voting-system cyberattack that even the
computer scientist urging the recount says has "probably not" occurred. Focus
instead on the scandal that really is rigging American democracy.

Dana Milbank

Columnist

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cpo


                         Copyright 2016 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1256 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Will Trump help small businesses?

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 508 words


Last weekend, while Americans were recovering from their Thanksgiving feasting,
the nation's retailers were having their Super Bowl.

The sales push began on Thanksgiving Day and continued into Black Friday for
major retailers, leading into Small Business Saturday and then into Cyber
Monday.

Small businesses, defined as having 500 or fewer employees, have long been the
backbone of the U.S. economy. According to the Small Business Administration,
the nation's 28 million small businesses represent 54 percent of all U.S. sales
and have provided 55 percent of all jobs since the 1970s.

The 77 million people that make up the small business workforce would rank as
the 17th most populous country in the world, just ahead of Iran.

Each small business has its own unique story.

"All the corner shops in our towns and cities - the restaurants, cleaners, gyms,
hair salons, hardware stores - these didn't come out of nowhere," said House
Speaker Paul Ryan.

Small businesses also significantly impact Pennsylvania's economy, representing
98.3 percent of all employers and employ 48.6 percent of the private sector
labor force. Most of the state's small businesses are very small; 76.7 percent
of all businesses have no employees and most have fewer than 20 employees.

Nationally, 78 percent of U.S. small businesses employ only one person, and more
than half of them operate out of the home. It takes six days to start a business
in the U.S. while the wait in China is 38 days.

The small business vote proved large in the recent presidential election.
According to an exclusive nationwide poll with Manta, a social network for small
businesses, Donald Trump won the crucial first debate in the eyes of small
businesses on Main Street.

Manta CEO John Swanciger said small-business owners were highly invested in this
election for good reason, with important issues including the minimum wage,
overtime regulations, and continuing health care policy changes.

The top concerns for small-business owners in order of priority are access to
capital (lending by financial institutions), hiring, religious freedom, foreign
policy, immigration, health care and taxes. Almost 80 percent said raising
capital was their No. 1 concern.

There's not been a great deal of love for government from small business. A poll
showed that only 24 percent believed the government was supportive of the
small-business man and 10 percent of those polled said they didn't want
government involved at all.

President-elect Trump continuously pounded the economic issues home during the
campaign, and the strategy was a winner. His victory, however, still has many
wondering how the campaign rhetoric will translate into concrete steps and
whether Senate Democrats will try to slow the Republican agenda.

As someone once said, "Small business isn't for the faint of heart. It's for the
brave, the patient and the persistent. It's for the overcomer."

Although the author of that quote is unknown, it speaks volumes to the
entrepreneurial spirit that drives the American economy.

- Lehighton Times-News

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cpo


                         Copyright 2016 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1257 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Mike Pence was elected vice president by a coalition of mostly white voters nost

BYLINE: By Philip Rucker The Washington Post

SECTION: NATION_; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 467 words


Mike Pence was elected vice president by a coalition of mostly white voters
nostalgic for what they thought of as the good old days in America and
galvanized by promises to deport millions of undocumented immigrants.

On Friday night, Pence came face-to-face with a symbol of the new America: A hit
musical called "Hamilton" that celebrates the principles of the nation's
founding but reimagines the revolutionary period with multiracial actors playing
the statesmen and the contributions of immigrants central to the story.

As he took his seat in New York's Richard Rogers Theater, Pence heard a
smattering of boos. He sat through a performance celebrating the country's
multiculturalism. And when the show was over and he headed for the exits, the
cast was not quite finished.

"We, sir, we are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new
administration will not protect us, our planet, our children, our parents, or
defend us and uphold our inalienable rights, sir," said Brandon Victor Dixon,
the actor who played Aaron Burr, reading a statement the cast members had
drafted together.

"But we truly hope this show has inspired you to uphold our American values and
work on behalf of all of us. All of us," he continued.

The remarkable moment crystallized the cleavage wrought by a toxic presidential
campaign, in which millions of aggrieved white Americans propelled Donald Trump
and Pence to the White House and left millions of others -- blacks and Latinos,
gays and lesbians, Muslims and Jews -- fearful of what might become of their
country.

"It was this collision of two different Americas and two different visions and
two different sets of experiences, happening at once, and happening in a rather
dramatic way," said Peter Wehner, a former speechwriter to President George W.
Bush and a fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center.

By Saturday morning, Trump decided to respond. He could have chosen to offer
assurances that he would be a president for all Americans -- that he would
respect everybody regardless of race or gender or creed.

But Trump being Trump, the president-elect punched back.

"The Theater must always be a safe and special place," Trump tweeted. "The cast
of Hamilton was very rude last night to a very good man, Mike Pence. Apologize!"

There was a certain irony to Trump's demand, considering that as a candidate he
rarely if ever apologized for the blizzard of insults he sprayed across the
country.

"Have you ever apologized? Ever? In your lifetime? Close your eyes, think back
to Baby Donald ...," Jimmy Fallon asked Trump on NBC's "Tonight Show" in
September 2015.

"I fully think apologizing is a great thing, but you have to be wrong," Trump
replied.

He added, with a laugh, "I will absolutely apologize sometime in the hopefully
distant future, if I'm ever wrong."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             1258 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Ready to vote again? Vote: Four council seats are on the ballot in Wheaton

BYLINE: By Robert Sanchez bsanchez@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 715 words


With the dust still settling from the presidential election, officials in DuPage
County and Aurora already are gearing up for local elections in the spring.

The filing period for candidates seeking municipal posts in Aurora, Naperville
and Wheaton begins today and continues through Nov. 28.

Filing in those towns starts earlier than in others because if more than four
candidates pursue any one post, a Feb. 28 primary will be needed to winnow the
field. No more than four candidates for a single seat are allowed to appear on
the general election ballot in April.

Candidates in towns that aren't eligible for primaries will not begin filing
their nominating petitions until next month. The general election is April 4.

This year, Republicans in several townships in DuPage County are planning
primaries in February no matter how many candidates file.

Here's a quick look at the potential races:

Aurora

The state's second-largest city is expected to have one of the most-watched
mayoral races in the suburbs.

Three-term Aurora Mayor Tom Weisner stepped down Oct. 30 because of health
concerns. Four candidates -- Linda Chapa LaVia, Rick

Guzman, Richard Irvin and Mike Saville -- already are campaigning for his seat.

Chapa LaVia, a veteran of the Army and National Guard, has served as a state
representative since 2003. Guzman has served as assistant chief of staff in
Weisner's office since 2011. Irvin is an alderman-at-large who has been on the
city council since 2007. Saville is a real estate agent and Ward 6 alderman who
joined the council in 1985.

It's possible at least one more candidate will emerge and trigger the need for a
primary.

In addition to the race for mayor, candidates for alderman in wards 2, 4, 7, 9
and 10 along with one alderman-at-large seat must file with the Aurora Election
Commission.

Naperville

After an unusual 2015 election in which all eight Naperville City Council seats
and the mayor's post were up at once, this election includes only four expiring
city council terms.

Those elected to the seats will get 4-year terms on the panel leading the
state's fifth-largest city.

Incumbents Judith Brodhead, Kevin Coyne, Kevin Gallaher and John Krummen all
have pulled packets from the city clerk's office and are expected to seek
re-election.

Financial advisory board member and small-business owner Mike Isaac says he will
campaign for a seat as well, while at least three others -- 2015 candidates
Steve Peterson and John Colletti and Naperville Area Homeowners Confederation
President Bob Fischer -- say they are considering runs.

The clerk's office says residents Charles Kennedy and Benjamin White, a school
board member in Indian Prairie Unit District 204, also have pulled packets for a
potential run. Kennedy and White did not return calls seeking comment.

The race appears headed straight for the April 4 election because 17 candidates
-- or one more than four times the number of seats available -- must file to
trigger a primary.

Wheaton

All four district seats on the Wheaton City Council are up for grabs.

Incumbents Phil Suess, Thor Saline, John Rutledge and Todd Scalzo are expected
to seek re-election. They represent the north, east, south and west districts of
the city, respectively.

Other residents who have pulled packets from the city clerk's office include
Roger Frye, Lynn Robbins, Joseph Leone, Robert McNeily, Thomas Dymit, Katherine
Patel and Scott Lightbody. More than four candidates would need to file for one
of the district seats to cause a primary.

"We've had it in the past where packets have gone out but they have not been
filed," City Clerk Sharon Barrett-Hagen said. "You never know how Monday is
going to go. Not everyone wants to come the first day."

Townships

In a twist this year, Republicans in Naperville, Winfield and Wayne townships
will use a Feb. 28 primary to select next spring's township candidates.

As a result, voters will pick the GOP nominees for every township post,
including the supervisor, assessor, highway commissioner and clerk. The primary
winners will face the Democratic Party nominees in the April election.

Traditionally, Republicans and Democrats in DuPage's nine townships gather
during a caucus to nominate their party's candidates.

* Daily Herald staff writers Jessica Cilella and Marie Wilson contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             1259 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Trump's charity admits to violating IRS rules

BYLINE: By Chad Day and Michael Biesecker Associated Press

SECTION: WASHINGTON_; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 736 words


WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald Trump's charity has admitted that it
violated IRS regulations barring it from using its money or assets to benefit
Trump, his family, his companies or substantial contributors to the foundation.

The admissions by the Donald J. Trump Foundation were made in a 2015 tax filing
made public after a presidential election in which it was revealed that Trump
has used the charity to settle lawsuits, make a $25,000 political contribution
and purchase items such as a painting of himself that was displayed at one of
his properties.

The filing's release, first reported by The Washington Post, comes as the New
York attorney general's office investigates whether Trump personally benefited
from the foundation's spending.

The filing also shows Trump's foundation accepted money from a Ukrainian
businessman who also gave money to one of Trump's favored targets on the
campaign trail: The Clinton Foundation. The charity also donated to a
conservative group that backed Trump during his candidacy.

The 2015 tax filing was posted on the nonprofit monitoring website GuideStar on
Nov. 18 by someone using an email address from the foundation's law firm,
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, said GuideStar spokeswoman Jackie Enterline Fekeci.

In the tax filing, the foundation acknowledged that it used money or assets in
violation of the regulations not only during 2015, but in prior years. But the
tax filing doesn't provide details on the violations.

Questions about the violations sent via email to Trump's transition team weren't
immediately answered Tuesday.

Marcus S. Owens, a partner at the Washington law firm Loeb & Loeb and a former
director of the IRS exempt organizations division, said the lack of detail in
the tax filing makes it difficult to determine the extent of the charity's
violations.

"There's no way to tell for sure whether the self-dealing is small and trivial
or large and a pattern of ongoing deliberate misuse of the charity's assets,"
Owens said.

Generally, he said, self-dealing violations require the violator to pay an
excise tax equal to 10 percent of the amount involved in the transactions. The
violator also would have to repay the foundation for the full amount involved.
Owens also noted that self-dealing is a violation of New York state law, where
the charity is registered.

New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat, launched an
investigation into the charity after reporting by the Post drew attention to
some of the foundation's purchases, three of which are listed in the latest
filing: two portraits of Trump and a football helmet autographed by former NFL
quarterback Tim Tebow.

As the Post reported previously, Trump bid $12,000 for the football helmet, and
his wife, Melania, bid $20,000 for one of the portraits. The other portrait,
which Trump bid $10,000 for, has been hanging on a wall at his golf course in
Doral, Florida, according to the Post.

Despite the high-dollar price tags, the foundation's latest tax filing now
values them at a combined $1,675. The tax filing does not specify if any of the
items are related to the self-dealing violations.

The foundation has previously said it amended its tax filings after it gave an
improper $25,000 check to a political committee supporting Florida Attorney
General Pam Bondi in 2013.

Charities are barred from engaging in political activities, and the
president-elect's staff says the check he signed was mistakenly issued following
a series of clerical errors. Earlier this year, the Trump Foundation paid a
$2,500 fine to the IRS over the check.

The latest tax filing shows two Trump entities gave to his foundation, a break
from recent years when the foundation's donations came mostly from other donors.

The Trump Corporation gave about $566,000 to the foundation, and Trump
Productions LLC, the company which produced "The Apprentice" and "Celebrity
Apprentice," gave $50,000 in 2015.

Another large contributor was the foundation of Victor Pinchuk, a Ukrainian
billionaire who has advocated for closer relations between the European Union
and Ukraine. The Victor Pinchuk Foundation gave $150,000 to the Trump Foundation
in 2015. Pinchuk's foundation has also given between $10 million and $25 million
to the Clinton Foundation.

The Trump Foundation's tax filing shows that it also gave at least $10,000 to
Project Veritas, a Trump-backing nonprofit group led by conservative activist
James O'Keefe.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             1260 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Experts ask Clinton to seek recount in 3 states

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICAL_; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 909 words


NEW YORK -- A group of election lawyers and data experts have asked Hillary
Clinton's campaign to call for a recount of the vote totals in three
battleground states -- Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania -- to ensure that a
cyberattack was not committed to manipulate the totals.

There is no evidence that the results were hacked or that electronic voting
machines were compromised. The Clinton campaign on Wednesday did not respond to
a request for comment as to whether it would petition for a recount before the
three states' fast-approaching deadlines to ask for one.

President-elect Donald Trump won Wisconsin and Pennsylvania by razor-thin
margins and has a small lead in Michigan. All three states had been reliably
Democratic in recent presidential elections.

The group, led by voting-rights attorney John Bonifaz and J. Alex Halderman, the
director of the University of Michigan Center for Computer Security and Society,
contacted the Clinton campaign this week. That call, first reported by New York
Magazine, raised the possibility that Clinton may have received fewer votes than
expected to be actually cast in some counties that rely on electronic voting
machines.

But Halderman, in an article posted on Medium on Wednesday, stressed that the
group has no evidence of a cyberattack or voting irregularities. He urged that a
recount be ordered just to eliminate the possibility.

"The only way to know whether a cyberattack changed the result is to closely
examine the available physical evidence??paper ballots and voting equipment in
critical states like Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania," Halderman wrote.

Recounts, which are often costly and time-intensive efforts, would likely only
be initiated if the Clinton camp pushed for one, though Wisconsin independently
announced that it would conduct an audit of its vote. A call for a recount,
particularly coming on the heels of a fiercely contested and sharply partisan
election, would likely be cheered by Democrats but denounced by Republicans
eager to focus on governing.

A request to the Trump transition team for comment was not immediately returned.

Trump's campaign had long believed that his message of economic populism would
resonate in the Rust Belt. He frequently campaigned in Pennsylvania and made a
late push in both Wisconsin and Michigan, successfully turning out white
working-class voters whom pollsters may have missed.

Many pre-election polls showed Clinton with slight leads. While advocating for
the recounts, Halderman writes that "the most likely explanation" for Trump's
surprise win "is that the polls were systematically wrong,"

The deadlines for petitioning for a recount in all three states are in the
coming days, with Wisconsin's on Friday. Green Party candidate Jill Stein
announced a fundraising effort Wednesday to pay for such recounts.

The focal point of any possible electoral cyberattack presumably would have been
electronic voting machines that, whether or not they are connected to the
internet, could be infected with malware that could change vote totals. But many
of those machines produce a paper record of the vote that could be checked to
see if the vote tabulations are accurate.

Pennsylvania is considered one of the states most susceptible to hacking because
96 percent of its voting machines have no paper trail. Wisconsin is far less
vulnerable because it uses electronic machines with voter-verifiable paper
trails in most counties. Michigan is considered the safest of the three because
it uses paper ballots.

Officials in the three states confirmed that no recounts have been ordered. A
spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department says it is not tallying the number of
voting complaints to determine whether federal action is warranted.

Many election experts have called for routine post-election audits designed to
boost public confidence in vote outcomes, by guarding against both tampering and
natural vote-counting mistakes. These could involve spot-checks of the voting
records and ballots, typically in randomly selected precincts, to make sure that
votes were accurately recorded.

In many states, audits involve hand-counting the votes on paper ballots and
comparing the results to the totals stored in the state's electronic voting
system. Such audits do sometimes turn up mistakes that reverse an election. That
happened in Florida's Palm Beach County in 2012, when a post-election audit
determined that the "winners" in two city council races were actually losers.

Routine audits also make it possible to confirm the accuracy of elections
without putting the onus on losing candidates to call for a recount. In states
without regular audits, a candidate who question the results gets "painted as a
sore loser," Pamela Smith, president of the nonprofit Verified Voting, said in
an interview earlier this year. "If you do a regular audit, you often don't need
a recount. It either shows the count was right or you find something."

Any attempted hack to swing the results in three states would have been a
massive and unprecedented undertaking. But electoral security was an issue that
loomed large in many Americans minds this year as the Democratic National
Committee and several Clinton staffers had their emails breached and later
released. U.S. security officials believe that hack of email was orchestrated by
Russian hackers.

Hamilton reported from San Francisco. Associated Press writer Eric Tucker in
Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             1261 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

S.C.'s Haley picked for U.N., DeVos for Education

BYLINE: By Julie Bykowicz and Steve Peoples Associated Press

SECTION: NATION_; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1086 words


PALM BEACH, Fla. -- Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald
Trump selected two Republican women on Wednesday who had unflattering things to
say about him during the presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley
to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate
Betsy DeVos to lead the Department of Education.

Gov. Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet Trump praised her as "a
proven dealmaker." DeVos, like Trump, is new to government but has spent decades
working to change America's system of public education.

DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts
as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is
the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minority
selection after a string of announcements of white men.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role, which would make him the first black choice -- possibly as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development -- but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it
over the Thanksgiving holiday.

"I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our
inner cities great for everyone," Carson wrote on his Facebook page.

Trump is also expected to select billionaire investor Wilbur Ross Jr. to lead
the Commerce Department, a senior Trump adviser said Wednesday, speaking only on
condition of anonymity because the adviser was not authorized to disclose
internal deliberations. The 78-year-old Ross, who is white, is chairman and
chief strategy officer of private-equity firm W.L. Ross & Co., which has
specialized in buying failing companies.

Wednesday's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the "alt-right,"
a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election.

He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with
family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving.

He's spending the holiday there after a week of interviews of potential
appointees in New York, punctuated by announcements of members of his national
security team.

In a Thanksgiving message posted on social media, Trump acknowledged that the
nation "just finished a long and bruising political campaign."

"Emotions are raw and tensions just don't heal overnight," he added. "It's my
prayer that on this Thanksgiving we begin to heal our divisions and move forward
as one country strengthened by shared purpose and very, very common resolve."

Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections had been evident through
much of this year's campaign.

"The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley!" Trump wrote in
March. Haley denounced several of his campaign comments and urged voters to
"reject the siren call of the angriest voices."

DeVos, from Michigan, told The Associated Press in July, "A lot of the things he
has said are very off-putting and concerning."

On Wednesday, Trump said of his UN selection: "Gov. Haley has a proven track
record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation
to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our
country."

She said she loved her South Carolina post but "when the president believes you
have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our
nation's standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed."

While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and
right.

The president of the National Education Association, Lily Eskelsen Garcia, said
in a statement that for years DeVos "has lobbied for failed schemes, like
vouchers -- which take away funding and local control from our public schools --
to fund private schools at taxpayers' expense."

And Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, tweeted,
"Trump has chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the
creation of the Dept of Education."

At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor,
who has spent millions of dollars -- along with her husband -- to promote
candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the
Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign.

Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that
climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign
vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.

DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a "Q&A" statement that said directly
about Common Core: "I am not a supporter -- period."

"I do support high standards," she said. But along the way Common Core "got
turned into a federal boondoggle."

Just two weeks ago, Trump shocked the political world -- including many in his
own party -- by winning the presidential contest. The billionaire New Yorker has
yet to take any formal steps to separate from his international business empire
as experts in both parties warn of potential conflicts of interest.

Trump will be sworn into office in less than 60 days. Beyond his Cabinet, he
must fill hundreds of high-level administration posts.

Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of
state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and
Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
formerly an outspoken Trump critic.

After secretary of state, the UN ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic
position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international
stage.

As for DeVos, her family has been active in Republican politics for decades,
especially as donors. Her husband, Dick, is an heir to the Amway fortune and a
former president of the company.

The American Federation for Children Action Fund, which DeVos chairs, and its
state-affiliated PACs invested in 121 races in 12 states in the general
election, spending spent $210,000 to support "pro-school choice" candidates in
Oklahoma alone.

"Under her leadership we will reform the U.S. education system and break the
bureaucracy that is holding our children back so that we can deliver world-class
education and school choice to all families," Trump said.

DeVos said in her own statement, "The status quo in education is not
acceptable."

Associated Press writers Jonathan Lemire in New York, Gary Fineout in
Tallahassee and Mark Sherman in Washington contributed to this report

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Associated Press/Nov. 15, 2016 South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley speaks
in Orlando, Fla.Associated Press President-elect Donald Trump and Betsy DeVos on
Saturday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             1262 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Merchants tapping pent-up demand Demand: Online shopping makes gains each year

BYLINE: By Lindsey Rupp and Sarah Very Bloomberg

SECTION: BUSINESS WIRE_; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words


Now that Election Tuesday is over, retailers are counting on Americans turning
their attention to Black Friday.

The National Retail Federation projects that about 137.4 million consumers will
make purchases in stores or online over the four-day weekend that started on
Thanksgiving, marking the kickoff to the holiday shopping season. The amount
Americans have spent has declined in the last three years, slipping 26 percent
from 2013 to an average of $299.60 per person last year, according to the trade
group.

By most accounts, this holiday season is expected be a boon for retailers.
Unemployment, gasoline prices and inflation are low, while wages, home values
and the stock market continue to rise. Shoppers have the wherewithal to spend,
and now retailers are hoping the holiday season will give them a reason to.
Companies such as Kohl's Corp., Gap Inc. and Barnes & Noble Inc. have said the
U.S. presidential election was a major cause of consumers' recent reluctance to
open their wallets. With the outcome settled, they're expecting the dollars to
finally flow.

"We've had some, we believe, pent-up demand -- just based on the economics of
our consumer," J.C. Penney Co. Chief Executive Officer Marvin Ellison said in an
interview this month. "We're anticipating we'll see pent-up demand released, and
it being post-election will only help that."

U.S. retail spending is expected to rise 3.6 percent to $655.8 billion in
November and December, the Washington-based NRF estimates. Retailers are poised
to take full advantage of the Thanksgiving holiday period, now known by some as
Black Week, which accounts for about 15 percent of holiday spending, according
to the trade group.

J.C. Penney opened its doors at 3 p.m. on Thursday to reach shoppers before they
tuck into their Thanksgiving feasts. EBay Inc. is trying to push the selling
even

earlier: It rebranded the day before Thanksgiving as Mobile Wednesday, using
discounts to target traveling Americans. The sales will stretch through the
weekend, with online and brick-and-mortar companies offering deals for Cyber
Monday.

Investors are confident that the retail industry will see strong sales. The
Standard & Poor's 500 Retail Index has risen 4.9 percent so far in November and
is on pace for its best monthly return since July. Retail stocks have outpaced
the broader market since the U.S. presidential election, with the index up 4.7
percent since Nov. 8, compared with the broader S&P 500's 3 percent rally.
Historical studies indicate that elections affect the timing of retail sales
rather than the overall volume, said Jerry Storch, CEO of Saks Fifth Avenue
owner Hudson's Bay Co.

"Hopefully, when we get to Black Friday, which really tolls the bell of holiday
shopping, then the consumer will start looking forward to Christmas," Storch
said.

That would be a welcome development for merchants that have yet to see a sales
bump materialize. Dollar sales in the second week of November were 8 percent
lower than in the same period a year earlier, according to research firm NPD
Group. The decline was broad-based, too, with drops in apparel, toys,
technology, athletic footwear and perfumes, the firm said.

For shoppers who are ready to spend, they have more ways than ever to do so,
with retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. offering
exclusive deals to customers who download their mobile applications. Non-store
sales may increase 7 percent to 10 percent this year, reaching as much as $117
billion, according to the NRF. Online sales account for the bulk of this
measure, the group said.

"If Amazon had everything, like everything you need in the world, I would buy
everything from there," said Oscar Viral, a 58-year-old chef in New York. "I
wanted something from Macy's, and I got on the internet because they didn't have
it available in the store."

With shoppers able to go online any time for deals, some malls are bucking the
trend of opening earlier on the Thanksgiving holiday and staying closed that
day. The country's largest shopping mall, the Mall of America in Minneapolis,
remained closed, reopening at 5 a.m. on Friday. But the 520 stores inside had
the option to open on Thursday. CBL & Associates, a developer, said it would
keep 72 of its malls closed that day, as well.

Still, the largest mall operators, Simon Property Group Inc. and General Growth
Properties Inc. didn't make plans to close on Thanksgiving, nor have major
department-store anchors that typically drive early traffic.

No matter when they shop, customers will be hunting for bargains. While a survey
of about 1,000 U.S. consumers by AlixPartners indicated that 83 percent of
shoppers expect to spend about the same or more this holiday season, mobile
phones are making price comparisons simpler than ever.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             1263 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Trump sites teem with security, traffic, tourists

BYLINE: The Washington Post

SECTION: NATION_; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1068 words


Editor's note: A very abbreviated version of this article appeared in only some
Saturday editions. Here is the full story.

PALM BEACH, Fla. -- On a postcard-perfect day here, tourist Kinsey Hoffman saw
many things she had never seen before: mansions with 12-foot-high gold-painted
eagle statues decorating the driveway; million-dollar mega-yachts lined up 10
abreast, bobbing in the Intracoastal Waterway; chic boutiques on Worth Avenue,
where a dog collar costs $475.

But as impressive as all that was, Hoffman was dazzled by what she saw crossing
the bridge to get to the island.

"Seeing boats with Secret Service people and machine guns, that's kind of not
what you expect when you're going to the beach. That's really something," said
Hoffman, 22, of Louisville. "We don't see things like that back home."

Hoffman was vacationing with her family in Palm Beach for the Thanksgiving
weekend, the same time President-elect Donald Trump came to Mar-a-Lago, his
Florida home, for the holiday.

The difference between a visit by candidate Trump and President-elect Trump was
evident from a mile away.

When he was just a candidate, the police presence around the estate was minimal.
A local police officer was stationed at the front Moorish-style gate and another
one at the back entrance.

This weekend, the security was far more intense. Secret Service agents on two
small boats patrolled the Intracoastal behind Mar-a-Lago. They also set up a
small temporary communications tower, about the size of a lifeguard station, on
a dirt lot to the east of the estate. A half-dozen police cars were spaced along
Ocean Boulevard, the narrow two-lane road that winds past the front entrance and
follows the property as it curves around the southern tip of Palm Beach.
Officers flagged down any trucks that approached, sending them in a direction
away from the compound.

Trump's first visit to his lavish Mar-a-Lago estate since winning the
presidential election signaled a change in the way life in Palm Beach will be
when the sprawling compound becomes the winter White House in two months. The
biggest change appears to be traffic.

"Traffic was a lot worse. It took us longer to get to the beach," said
21-year-old Cooper Podosnik, a nurse who lives in West Palm Beach. He was lying
in the sun on Midtown Beach, about a mile away from Mar-a-Lago. "So I don't like
that part of it. But it's still kind of cool to think that the next president of
the United States is right down the road from us now."

Like a lot of other aspects of Trump's relationship to this wealthy town,
traffic woes will have to be handled the same way Palm Beachers have handled
Trump in the past: They'll just have to deal with it.

"I suppose we'll all adapt," resident and business owner Catherine Louis said.
"There's not much else we can do at this point. But this time it feels a little
different. When George W. Bush was elected, people in town were celebrating.
When President Barack Obama was first elected, a gloomy pall settled over Palm
Beach. This time, nobody wants to outright celebrate, but I'm sure half the
island is thrilled."

Louis and her husband own Bibi's Boutique, a shop for pet accessories on Worth
Avenue. She still carries two popular stuffed toys left over from the campaign -
one a figure of Trump, the other of Hillary Clinton.

"People would come in and buy one of each," Louis said. "I always wondered if
one was meant to be a keepsake and the other one a chew toy."

Old-money Palm Beach may have never truly embraced Trump, but he never let their
disapproval slow him down. Trump has expected the town to deal with him, on his
terms, since he bought Mar-a-Lago in 1985. Trump's brash style, coupled with his
ostentatious taste, rubbed the old-money social set in Palm Beach the wrong way
from the start. His flurry of lawsuits, on issues from the local airport to the
size of his flagpole, have alienated even those who gave the billionaire
developer the benefit of the doubt at first.

Trump succeeded in turning the aging 1927 compound, built by cereal heiress
Marjorie Merriweather Post, into a private club and resort, overcoming town
ordinances and social pressure. He spruced up the property inside and out,
transforming Mar-a-Lago from a hulking historic artifact into a fashionable
resort that caters to the ultra-wealthy (memberships at Mar-a-Lago cost
$100,000, plus fees of $13,000 a year).

After much resistance, the town of Palm Beach has learned to love Mar-a-Lago, if
not necessarily the man who owns it. The resort is the go-to spot for a slate of
prestigious charity balls every year, rivaling the old-guard Breakers Resort and
Flagler Museum as a high-end hot spot to hold a ball. Celebrities including
Elton John, James Taylor and Tony Bennett have appeared there. Rock star Rod
Stewart, Trump's Palm Beach neighbor, has also been a guest.

Trump brought glitz and glamour to the staid island that had been more
accustomed to a low-key patrician kind of wealth.

President John F. Kennedy and his extended family spent winters at the Kennedy
estate on the northern end of the island. The Kennedys attended services at St.
Edward's Catholic Church when they were in town and frequently ate lunch across
the street at Green's Pharmacy.

Trump is not seen much around the island, residents say.

"He has everything he needs right there at Mar-a-Lago," one Palm Beach resident
said. "He doesn't need to come into town."

Robin Bernstein, a founding member of Mar-a-Lago and now a Trump elector for
Florida, said members see him all the time and they're happy he came back for
Thanksgiving.

"If there is a love-hate relationship with Donald Trump, I'm in the love
category," Bernstein said.

Bernstein, who worked in the Commerce Department under President Jimmy Carter,
has known Trump for nearly 30 years. She credits him with allowing a diverse
membership to Mar-a-Lago without putting up some of the subtle racial and
religious barriers other clubs on the island were accused of doing.

Trump may not make it out into public when he's in Palm Beach, but he is a
frequent presence at his club.

"He was always here, talking with us, eating dinner here; he lives here," said
Bernstein, who saw Trump at Mar-a-Lago on Wednesday night. "We're so glad they
came down for Thanksgiving. He was happy, relaxed, taking pictures with people.
We missed him during the 18 months of the campaign. We're glad to have our
Donald back on Palm Beach."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             1264 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

A disturbing sign in voting patterns

BYLINE: By Jim Tankersley The Washington Post

SECTION: BUSINESS WIRE_; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 671 words


Editor's note: A version of this article appeared in only some Saturday
editions. Here is the full story.

In the modern era of presidential politics, no candidate has ever won the
popular vote by more than Hillary Clinton did this year, yet still managed to
lose the electoral college. In that sense, 2016 was a historic split: Donald
Trump won the presidency by as many as 74 electoral votes (depending on how
Michigan ends up) while losing the nationwide vote to Clinton by 2 million votes
and counting.

But there's another divide exposed by the election, which researchers at the
Brookings Institution discovered as they sifted the election returns. It has no
bearing on the election outcome, but it tells us something important about the
state of the country and the future of its politics.

The divide is economic, and it is massive. According to the Brookings analysis,
the fewer-than-500 counties that Clinton won nationwide combined to generate 64
percent of U.S. economic activity in 2015. The more-than-2,600 counties that
Trump won combined to generate 36 percent of the country's economic activity
last year.

Clinton, in other words, carried nearly two-thirds of the American economy.

With the exceptions of the Phoenix and Fort Worth areas, and a big chunk of Long
Island, Clinton won every large-size economic county in the country.

This appears to be unprecedented, in the era of modern economic statistics, for
a losing presidential candidate. The last candidate to win the popular vote but
lose the electoral college, Democrat Al Gore in 2000, won counties that
generated about 54 percent of the country's gross domestic product, the
Brookings researchers calculated.

That's true even though Gore won more than 100 more counties in 2000 than
Clinton did in 2016.

Between those elections, U.S. economic activity has grown increasingly
concentrated in large, "superstar" metropolitan areas such as Silicon Valley and
New York.

But it's not the case that the counties Clinton won have grown richer at the
expense of the rest of the country -- they represent about the same share of the
economy today as they did in 2000. Instead, it appears that, compared with Gore,
Clinton was much more successful in winning over the most successful counties in
a geographically unbalanced economy.

The Brookings analysis found that counties with higher GDP per capita were more
likely to vote for Clinton over Trump, as were counties with higher population
densities. Counties with higher shares of manufacturing employment were more
likely to vote for Trump.

"This is a picture of a very polarized and increasingly concentrated economy,"
said Mark Muro, the policy director at the Brookings metro program, "with the
Democratic base aligning more to that more concentrated modern economy, but a
lot of votes and anger to be had in the rest of the country."

As Muro notes, many state legislatures are divided on similar grounds, between
higher-output metro areas and lower- output rural ones. Often, that divide
pushes governors of those states, even the ones who hail from cities, to support
economic development in lower-output areas. Such a dynamic could be an upside
under a president who won votes representing only a third of the country's
economy: To respond to his voters, Trump could promote policies to help those
areas adapt more rapidly to the changing economy.

There's a downside, though, for a candidate such as Trump, whose economic appeal
was rooted in a promise to restore coal, manufacturing and other jobs lost in
the shifts of the past several decades.

That task will be difficult, Muro has written, in part because manufacturers
have grown substantially more productive in recent years, meaning they probably
won't be adding millions of workers even if Trump pursues major changes in trade
policy that result in more goods being made in the United States.

"The prescription isn't that helpful," Muro said. "We're going to have a lot of
questions about how to translate the political geography into actually helpful
policy."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             1265 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Clinton camp to join Stein's recount effort

BYLINE: By Matt Zapotosky The Washington Post

SECTION: NATION_; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words


Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign has been quietly exploring whether there
was any "outside interference" in the election results and will participate in
the election recount in Wisconsin initiated by Green Party presidential
candidate Jill Stein, a Clinton campaign lawyer revealed Saturday.

In a Medium post, Clinton campaign lawyer Marc Elias wrote that the campaign had
received "hundreds of messages, emails, and calls urging us to do something,
anything, to investigate claims that the election results were hacked and
altered in a way to disadvantage Secretary Clinton," especially in Michigan,
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, where the "combined margin of victory for Donald
Trump was merely 107,000 votes."

Elias wrote that the campaign had "not uncovered any actionable evidence of
hacking or outside attempts to alter the voting technology." But because of the
margin of victory -- and because of the degree of apparent foreign interference
during the campaign -- Elias wrote that Clinton officials had "quietly taken a
number of steps in the last two weeks to rule in or out any possibility of
outside interference in the vote tally in these critical battleground states."
He wrote they would also participate in the Stein-initiated recount in
Wisconsin, and if Stein made good on efforts to prompt similar processes in
Pennsylvania and Michigan, they would do so there, as well.

"The campaign is grateful to all those who have expended time and effort to
investigate various claims of abnormalities and irregularities," Elias wrote.
"While that effort has not, in our view, resulted in evidence of manipulation of
results, now that a recount is underway, we believe we have an obligation to the
more than 64 million Americans who cast ballots for Hillary Clinton to
participate in ongoing proceedings to ensure that an accurate vote count will be
reported."

The presidential campaign was marked by fears that Russian hacking might affect
the outcome, especially after Russian hackers penetrated the computer network of
the Democratic National Committee and were found to have attempted intrusions on
voter registration databases. The Washington Post also recently reported, citing
researchers who tracked the phenomenon, that Russians created and spread fake
news about the election with the apparent goal of helping Donald Trump.

During the campaign, Clinton criticized Trump for refusing to say that he would
accept the election results if Clinton won. Asked during an October debate
whether he would do so, Trump responded that he would "keep you in suspense."
Clinton called that answer "horrifying" and said Trump was "talking down our
democracy."

"Donald Trump refused to say that he'd respect the results of this election,"
her campaign later posted on Twitter. "By doing that, he's threatening our
democracy."

In recent days, though, it is Clinton's supporters who have raised questions
about the outcome of the election. A viral post spread by some Clinton backers,
including actress Debra Messing, suggested -- falsely -- that the Justice
Department was "tallying calls" from people who wanted an audit of the 2016
election and urged people to make their displeasure known.

"Even if it's busy, keep calling," said one version. "We should not back down
from this."

New York Magazine then reported that Clinton was being urged "by a group of
prominent computer scientists and election lawyers" to call for a recount in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, and the group had some evidence of
possibly unusual activity. That fueled even more skepticism and calls for action
by Clinton supporters.

The evidence of possible malfeasance, though, was limited. According to the
magazine, the group found that Clinton "received 7 percent fewer votes in
counties that relied on electronic-voting machines compared with counties that
used optical scanners and paper ballots," and "Based on this statistical
analysis, Clinton may have been denied as many as 30,000 votes; she lost
Wisconsin by 27,000."

J. Alex Halderman, one of the academics reportedly involved, later wrote on
Medium that the deviations were "probably not" the result of a cyberattack, but
that "the only way to know whether a cyberattack changed the result is to
closely examine the available physical evidence.

-- paper ballots and voting equipment in critical states like Wisconsin,
Michigan, and Pennsylvania."

Posting a link to a New York Times story about Clinton supporters calling for a
recount, senior Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway said, "Look who 'can't accept the
election results.'"

Elias' post might fuel similar criticism. Notably, though, Clinton did not
initiate the recount herself, and Elias wrote that the campaign had not planned
to, because it had found no actionable evidence of hacking.

The Clinton campaign had investigated the matter extensively. Elias wrote the
campaign had "lawyers and data scientists and analysts combing over the results
to spot anomalies" and had also "monitored and staffed the postelection
canvasses -- where voting machine tapes are compared to poll-books, provisional
ballots are resolved, and all of the math is double checked from Election
Night." He wrote that the campaign had also met with outside experts and
"attempted to systematically catalog and investigate every theory that has been
presented to us within our ability to do so."

Now that a recount effort was underway, Elias wrote that it was "important" to
participate in the proceedings. He played down the idea that the recount would
change the outcome.

"We do so fully aware that the number of votes separating Donald Trump and
Hillary Clinton in the closest of these states -- Michigan -- well exceeds the
largest margin ever overcome in a recount," Elias wrote. "But regardless of the
potential to change the outcome in any of the states, we feel it is important,
on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally represented in any court
proceedings and represented on the ground in order to monitor the recount
process itself."

Brian Fallon, a spokesman for the Clinton campaign, rejected the notion that the
campaign's actions might suggest to some that it was not accepting the election
results.

"The post says we would not have sought the recount on our own, that we see no
evidence of tampering so far, and acknowledge the margin in Michigan, which is
the tightest of the three, exceeds the largest deficit ever overcome in a
recount," Fallon wrote to The Washington Post. "We note we are guarding our
prerogatives now that someone else has launched a recount. Not sure what you
could point to to suggest there is anything here that calls the results into
question."

A Trump spokeswoman did not immediately return a message seeking comment.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             1266 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

A new normal?

BYLINE: By Nancy Benac Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 441 words


WASHINGTON -- Donald Trump, that most unconventional of presidential candidates,
last spring pledged that he would act perfectly presidential when the time was
right.

"I will be so presidential that you'll call me and you'll say, 'Donald, you have
to stop that, it's too much,'" he promised during a March television interview.

Less than two months from Inauguration Day, there are growing signs that Trump's
idea of what's presidential may never sync up with past norms -- to the delight
of some and dismay of others.

The president-elect has kept up his habit of sending unfiltered tweets, directly
challenged the First Amendment right to burn the flag and selected a
flame-throwing outsider for a top adviser.

He's shown no hesitation to traffic in unsubstantiated rumors, has mixed
dealings in business and government, and has flouted diplomatic conventions to
make his own suggestion for who should be Britain's ambassador to the U.S., a
job that happens to already be filled.

He's picked numerous fights with individual journalists, disregarded past
practices on press access and dabbled in the name-calling that was commonplace
during his candidacy.

Trump's search for Cabinet nominees has played out like a reality TV show, with
a number of candidates engaged in unabashed self-promotion while their assets
and liabilities are publicly debated by members of the president-elect's own
transition team. (It's normally a hush-hush process until the unveiling of an
appointee). Trump's tweet that "Fidel Castro is dead!" had none of the
diplomatic subtleties normally associated with such an international
development. Is this the "new normal" for what to expect from a Trump
administration or a reflection of the growing pains associated with any
presidential transition?

President Barack Obama, has expressed hope that the weight of the office will
ultimately have a sobering effect on Trump, cautioning people against assuming
"the worst."

Republican Rep. Mark Meadows of North Carolina, a strong conservative and a
Trump defender, said of the transition, "You gotta break a few eggs to make an
omelet."

But Thomas Mann, a longtime scholar of government from the Brookings
Institution, said that while people can hope for the best, "There's no reason to
take what's going on with anything other than great uneasiness and caution about
the kind of government that is preparing to take control in the United States."

"To call this the 'new normal' is to make light of the seriousness of what's
going on," Mann said.

Trump has "got to get some discipline," said New York University's Paul Light,
another scholar of government. "He's just got to get on this."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Associated Press Donald Trump, the most unconventional of presidential
candidates, last spring pledged that he would act presidential when the time was
right.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


                             1267 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

News Breaking

LENGTH: 1799 words


By Chandra Johnson

Deseret News

To Philadelphia-based digital marketer Jason Bauman, the biggest disappointment
of the 2016 election had little to do with who will sit in the White House.

For Bauman, 31, it was how disillusioned and skeptical he's become of news
outlets he once trusted.

"What really changed this cycle is that I've become extremely disappointed with
the media outlets I used to respect," Bauman said. "I've seen multiple examples
this election of otherwise reputable outlets fall prey to obvious rumors because
they didn't want to lose out on the potential traffic that the story might
generate."

Bauman isn't alone in his distaste for the media this election cycle. The 2016
State of the First Amendment Survey released in June found that just 10 percent
of Americans felt the presidential race was being covered accurately. A more
recent Quinnipiac University poll released in October found that more than half
(55 percent) of likely voters believe the media was biased against then-GOP
nominee Donald Trump, while 42 percent say there was no media bias against him.

The evidence of that sentiment was palpable this election, particularly in the
Trump camp. At Trump rallies across the country, reporters and photographers
were booed and met with angry jeering when they entered venues, The Washington
Post reported.

The attitude has become so hostile amid literal attacks on journalists at
rallies in the past year that NPR even put its reporters through "Trump
training" to handle threats to their safety. Trump, in statements unprecedented
from a candidate for the nation's highest office, has long expressed mistrust in
the media, telling a crowd at an October rally that the media was "stealing" the
election from him.

"The media is, indeed, sick, and it's making our country sick, and we're going
to stop it," Trump said, though he didn't elaborate further.

Many media experts are similarly disgusted with 2016 election coverage they say
offered little hard-hitting substance until later in the campaign.

"In a sense, Trump is right when he says the election is rigged," said Mark
Grabowski, associate communications professor at Adelphi University in Long
Island, New York. "Not by voter fraud, but by the so-called Fourth Estate
largely serving as a propaganda machine."

Given both Trump and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton's reluctance to engage
the news media much beyond rallies and occasional press conferences in favor of
social media, some experts wonder how the news media will stay relevant in
future elections.

"This could be the last election where mainstream media play a dominant or
leading role," said Canadian and American media ethicist Stephen Ward. "Given
what Trump has done on Twitter, I see more and more campaigns running this way
in the future, without visiting editorial boards - saying, 'to hell with them,
we don't need them.' "

To change the tide of public enmity rising around them, experts say journalists
have a hard road ahead of them that involves acknowledging their largely poor
performance during the 2016 campaign.

"It's only recently they started holding his feet to the fire on anything,"
media watchdog group Media Matters CEO Angelo Carusone said. "If the media's not
careful, I see their future role not as a constructive force but as pawns in a
larger game."

How did we get here?

By many media analyst accounts, the current climate of public distrust of the
media is unprecedented.

"There have been fractured times in America before," said Kathleen Culver,
director of the Center for Journalism Ethics at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison. "But I've never seen such open disdain for the media, at
least in my lifetime."

Yet experts say there are historical parallels for the public and the press
being at odds with one another because of political partisanship and bias.

Dating back to Colonial times through the 19th century, newspapers were often
the tools of politicians, with no claim to objectivity or passive observation.
In the years after the American Revolution, it was commonplace for politicians
in both Alexander Hamilton's Federalist Party and Thomas Jefferson's Republican
Party to sponsor newspapers. The goal was to bolster party candidates and
communicate specific messages to their supporters. Because of this business
arrangement, newspaper publishers and editors often doubled as party spokesmen,
according to journalism historian and New York University professor Mitchell
Stephens.

It was a pattern that lasted until the 1920s and the era of "muckraking" and
"yellow journalism," when large newspapers locked in stiff competition hyped
lurid details and unproven facts to attract readers.

The sensationalist papers of the past and the partisan media outlets of today
shared a common problem, experts say: economic instability.

The economic circumstances that led to bias and sensationalism aren't so
different from the ones media outlets are grappling with anew now.

"Journalists in those days wanted to report in a serious way, and when they
became more (financially) stable, they did," said Jonathan Ladd, a Georgetown
professor and author of "Why Americans Hate the Media and How it Matters." "But
as we learned from that era, reporters will (report in a serious way) less if
they have to do high-quality journalism as well as whatever the older equivalent
to clickbait would be."

Yellow journalism only fell out of practice amid the adoption of a stable
business model - reader subscriptions, Carusone said. Back then, newspapers
depended on distributors (often newsboys) buying the paper in bulk and selling
them on the street. Often, if the news wasn't "exciting" enough, papers didn't
sell, leading to over-the-top headlines Carusone likens to the clickbait of
today.

"People then understood this was tabloid journalism, but it still influenced
public opinion," Carusone said. "Today, we all know what clickbait is, but we
still consume it and internalize it. So much of the media environment we're
seeing now is governed by economic uncertainty in the news business."

Along with advertising, subscriptions were largely what sustained news outlets
until the advent of the internet, which upended the classified section. This
economic uncertainty matters because in an environment where traditional
journalism must compete with false, misleading or partisan outlets online, facts
often fall by the wayside, fueling public polarization.

"There's been a development in media and in the public where the facts simply
don't matter or they're disregarded. That's why you see such a rise in
fact-checking this election," Ward said. "When you see a citizenry that has that
mindset, you should worry for democracy."

A partisan mirror

Although economic instability may harm the quality of news coverage, experts say
there is also a relationship between growing political polarization and the
perception of media bias.

Ladd argues that because politics have become so polarized, it's harder for the
public and journalists to hash out what the facts are. As more media outlets
accept certain facts and others reject them - think of CNN accepting climate
change as a fact, whereas Fox News questions its existence - media outlets
become more fragmented, which can inadvertently lead to polarization.

"The more fragmented (the news media) become, the more partisan it gets, because
politicians now have differing beliefs about what the facts are, and they get
people mad at the other side's media," Ladd said. "For example, what is the
employment rate? Is the economy growing? Is deficit shrinking? Those are basic
facts nobody agrees on anymore."

This wasn't always such a problem, Carusone said, because Americans used to have
a common touchstone for information.

"It used to be that there was a nightly newscast that everyone participated in
that gave people a common reference point that formed a factual baseline to form
your opinions on. We've lost that shared experience and that shared
understanding of the facts," Carusone said. "(The media) lost the willingness to
call out things as unprecedented, false and destructive. So, if you understand
the system well, you can game the media."

When news outlets don't agree on the facts, the result is what Ward calls an
"unholy mix" of journalism and social media. Today, people may walk away from a
newscast unsure of what the facts are, and platforms like social media don't
bother to filter out posts that spread biased or false information. If the
information people find on social media aligns with their world-view, Culver
says it's human nature to believe it whether it's true or not - leaving little
room for argument.

"When we don't slow down to consider where the information we get, especially
via social media, comes from, we fall victim to this urge to say, 'Aha! This
confirms what I've thought all along,' " Culver said. "The more we move away
from deliberation as citizens, the more dangerous this becomes, because you can
literally filter out news items online that challenge your views and spread
content that simply reinforces your worldview."

On sites like Facebook, users can filter their news feeds to only include
outlets that report what the user believes. That worries Ward, who says such
filters make Americans lose their grasp on the key to a healthy democracy:
understanding multiple perspectives of a problem.

"It's so important to understand people of other perspectives. If we stick with
media that just reinforces us, we don't get that and that's worrying," Ward
said. "We are so fragmented in the way we approach issues these days online. At
some point, as a society, we have got to come together."

How that could happen is an open question. For the media, some experts espouse a
"back to basics" approach of simply reporting the facts without interpretation.
Others, like Ward, say the future of journalism depends on whether American
society can learn to civilly debate again, and not writing off or filtering out
voices they disagree with. As The Atlantic put it just before the election,
"Americans Don't Need Reconciliation -They Need to Get Better at Arguing."

If Americans don't like what they see in the news media today, Ward asks them to
remember that news outlets act as a mirror for society. If the picture looks
skewed or biased, perhaps Americans should look inside themselves and ask if
they need to change.

"You can't blame all this on the big, bad media. The news media reflects society
and its citizens don't want to complicate their worldviews. They don't want
facts, they want slogans," Ward said. "The theory of a popular democracy lies in
whether its citizens want to rationally exchange and debate. That's not what I
see here. I see people who want to win an argument at any cost."

Email: chjohnson@deseretnews.com

Twitter: ChandraMJohnson

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1268 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Post-election developments in Utah and the U.S.

BYLINE: LaVarr Webb For the Deseret News, By Frank R. Pignanelli For the Deseret
News

LENGTH: 937 words


Election fallout continues at state and local levels. Here's our take on
post-election developments.

After being voted out of legislative leadership, Utah Sen. James Dabakis issued
a scathing press release scolding his fellow Democrats, along with Republicans,
for "taking influence tainted money." Branding the system as "corrupt," he
reiterated his call for campaign finance reform. Are these accusations accurate,
or do they mirror populist slash-and-burn tactics against the establishment?

Pignanelli: "Politics is such a torment that I advise everyone I love not to mix
with it." - Thomas Jefferson

Every day, I interact with lawmakers, lobbyists, analysts, directors and other
state government officials. All of them are good decent people who ensure Utah
is the best-managed state in the nation.

The Minority Party Caucuses are a courageous, important voice for the poor and
disenfranchised. They are undeserving of Dabakis' insults. All of Dabakis'
legislative colleagues - Democrats and Republicans - are ethical, hard-working
public servants unbefitting of his disparagement because they accept campaign
contributions.

The senator proudly states that he has "never taken or solicited" contributions
from lobbyists. Interesting claim.

While serving as senator and Democratic Party chairman, he solicited from
"influence peddlers." I have the fundraiser emails and a copy of my contribution
check to his personal campaign. He was not shy asking me and other lobbyists to
sponsor his television program. Of course, all these actions are legal and
appropriate.

Utahns should be proud of the officials, employees and others (yes, this
includes lobbyists) striving so all local governments are ethical and efficient.
We cannot allow self-righteous prattle to diminish this legacy.

Webb: First, congratulations all the newly elected legislative leaders.
Republicans and Democrats chose experienced, responsible lawmakers to lead their
caucuses. I expect the upcoming legislative session to be well-managed and to
focus on solving problems facing Utah.

I hate to violate my long-held "Dabakis policy" - which is to ignore him. He
thrives on publicity, good or bad. His periodic newsletter reads like a Utah
leftist version of Breitbart News. He makes fun of Republicans and
conservatives, engages in wild conspiracy theories, and assures left-wing
liberals that their future is bright, that he'll personally vanquish all the
nasty conservatives - if only they'll send him some money.

In Salt Lake City and across the country, thousands of angry people marched in
the streets, protesting the election of Donald Trump. Are these the actions of
spoiled losers, or are they important messengers representing the emotions of
millions of people?

Pignanelli: Notwithstanding the silly Electoral College, Donald Trump won the
presidential election in accordance to the rules of our republic. But the
protests are a fundamental element of our democracy. They serve notice that the
harsher elements of his promises (deportation, the "wall," religious tests,
etc.) will be met with verbal resistance. Our country was born in protest and
the demonstrations signal our system is healthy

Webb: Protesting is a great American pastime. I say protest your broken hearts
out if it makes you feel better. Interestingly, interviews with protesters
showed many of them didn't bother to vote. Even more productive than protesting
would be to actually vote for or against candidates.

Those who are using protests as an excuse to damage property, light fires and
block highways aren't legitimate protesters, of course. They are thugs who
should be put in jail.

In general, the protesters aren't helping their cause. The TV images of
marching, chanting and property destruction confirm the sentiments of mainstream
Americans that they were right to vote for Trump. At some point soon, the
leftists need to get a life and accept reality.

Weeks after Election Day, the Salt Lake County Clerk has yet to finalize
election results. In the meantime, the outcomes of some legislative contests and
a Salt Lake County at-large race hang in the balance. Many politicos are asking,
"What is taking the clerk so long to count these ballots?"

Pignanelli: The official story is that mail-in balloting is a modern feature but
relies on paper ballots - thus diminishing any technological advantages. The
backroom grumbles by politicos are that the clerk did not adequately anticipate
last-minute Election Day voters. Legislators are threatening action.

Webb: Had the governor's race or U.S. Senate race been extremely close, this
debacle wouldn't just be embarrassing, it would be disastrous. People would be
calling for a housecleaning in the clerk's office. It's hard to understand how
election officials could not have seen the election trends and prepared a whole
lot better. They should have easily foreseen the avalanche of last-minute
mail-in ballots. If the ballots didn't arrive early, they were obviously going
to come late.

The number of in-person polling locations was woefully inadequate. Too many
people gave up and didn't vote because they couldn't stand in line for hours.
Something went terribly wrong in Salt Lake County.

Republican LaVarr Webb is a political consultant and lobbyist. Previously he was
policy deputy to Gov. Mike Leavitt and Deseret News managing editor. Email:
lwebb@exoro.com Democrat Frank Pignanelli is a Salt Lake attorney, lobbyist and
political adviser. Pignanelli served 10 years in the Utah House of
Representatives, six years as minority leader. His spouse, D'Arcy Dixon
Pignanelli, is a state tax commissioner. Email: frankp@xmission.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1269 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Be skeptical in post-election hype

BYLINE: Robert J. Samuelson For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 690 words


WASHINGTON -

Elections regularly inspire an orgy of hype - and so it is with this one. The
Democrats are in disarray, it's said. Unless they're enormously skillful or
lucky, they risk becoming a minority party indefinitely. Be skeptical. The
reality is that these dire forecasts have a habit of not coming true.

Remember Barry Goldwater's crushing defeat in 1964. After Watergate, Republicans
seemed doomed. Ronald Reagan's two successful terms, followed by the election of
George H.W. Bush in 1988, seemed to entrench Republicans.

In each case, something (Vietnam, double-digit inflation, recession) altered the
calculus and confirmed a longstanding axiom of U.S. politics: When Americans are
unhappy, they throw out the party in the White House.

So we need to be wary now. The grim diagnoses for Democrats are surely overdone.
It's true that Trump's victory was astonishing - but only because most political
experts had predicted his defeat and, more important, because he survived his
own behavior, which violated so many established norms of public conduct.

Once you dispense with this astonishing fact, Trump's triumph appears less
out-of-the ordinary. I have spent some time studying election statistics.
Herein, some conclusions:

(1) Despite all the vitriol - or perhaps because of it - the public was not
nearly as engaged with the campaign as the round-the-clock cable and internet
news media made it seem. One standard measure of political interest is whether
people voted; fewer did, proportionally, than in 2012. Between that election and
this, the voting eligible population grew 9 million to 232 million, according to
the nonpartisan U.S. Election Project. But actual voting increased only by 4
million. Voter turnout was 58.1 percent, down from 58.6 percent, reports the
Election Project.

(2) Donald Trump did not win the election so much as Hillary Clinton lost it. In
2012, President Obama won with almost 66 million votes; Clinton's total was just
over 62 million. Although that may increase slightly with some late reporting,
it will not approach Obama's count. If Clinton had simply matched Obama, she
almost certainly would have captured the Electoral College and become
president-elect.

(3) Trump's performance was less spectacular than it seemed - at least as
measured by votes - and, in some crucial ways, was no better than Mitt Romney's.
Romney was criticized as a poor campaigner, but his popular vote and Trump's
were roughly equal (60.9 million), even though there were more eligible voters
in 2016. Remember also that Trump lost the popular vote to Clinton by roughly 1
million or more.

(4) Voting patterns are remarkably stable. Consider the share of white voters
who supported the Republican candidate in the last four presidential elections
(2004-2016): 58 percent, 55, 59, 58, report exit polls compiled by the American
Enterprise Institute. Similarly, here's the share of African-American voters who
backed the Democratic candidate: 88, 95, 93, 88. Campaigning concentrates on a
small sliver of voters whose minds aren't made up or who are open to change.

Some lessons are plain. One is that the Democrats' vaunted "ground game" - the
get-out-the-vote operation - was vastly overrated. Another is that elections
rarely produce genuine "mandates," though leaders of both parties routinely
claim that they do. (Not surprisingly, Trump is asserting a mandate to shake up
Washington.) The people may have "spoken," but their message is usually limited
to voting for one candidate over another. Broader themes have to be inferred or
invented.

With some exceptions (Abraham Lincoln 1860, Franklin Roosevelt 1932, Lyndon
Johnson 1964 are examples), elections do not signal upheavals in American life.
The commentariat - scholars, pundits, columnists, bloggers - have an interest in
saying otherwise. They build impressive theories of social, political and
economic change based on elections where the candidates are separated by only a
few percent of the vote.

When you hear these pronouncements, you ought to temper them with history. It
teaches that public opinion is fickle.

Robert J. Samuelson is a Washington Post columnist.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1270 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Utah House speaker in contact with Trump team

BYLINE: Dennis Romboy Deseret News

LENGTH: 407 words


By Dennis Romboy

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Utah House Speaker Greg Hughes has been in contact with
President-elect Donald Trump's transition team and could be among those under
consideration for transportation secretary.

The Draper Republican's speech at a national transportation conference in
Sacramento last Thursday apparently triggered interest in his work and ideas on
transit issues.

"I was contacted and I forwarded some information," Hughes said. "There was a
lot of conversations after I had heralded our Utah model at that conference. I
imagine that some of the things we're hearing now are from the transportation
leaders that were at that conference."

A former Utah Transit Authority board chairman, Hughes is a proponent of a
comprehensive transportation approach that includes roads, light rail, fixed
rail, buses and rapid transit. He has spoken about Utah's transportation system
at various places around the country.

Hughes was one of the first Utah politicians to get behind and stay behind Trump
during the presidential campaign. He was among elected leaders who hosted Donald
Trump Jr. for a fundraiser in September.

Hughes said he doesn't know how much he wants to talk about the possibility of
working in the Trump administration because he doesn't want to sound like he's
planning on anything. He said he doesn't really know how the process works.

"If I could be impactful and make a difference, and if our president-elect were
to ask me to serve, it would be pretty hard not to take that seriously," he
said.

Hughes has served in the House since 2002 and was just re-elected to a second
two-year term as speaker. He said he's not looking for anything beyond that and
doesn't know if anything would come of it.

"I'm not measuring for drapes," he said.

At least one person has made it known that he wants the transportation secretary
job.

Florida Republican Rep. John Mica, who lost his re-election bid, told reporters
last week that he has talked to the Trump team about the position. He has been
an avid Trump supporter.

Other possibilities mentioned in various news reports include former Reason
Foundation analyst Shirley Ybarra, the Trump transition team member tasked with
finding the new transportation secretary; James Simpson, who ran New Jersey's
Department of Transportation; and Mark Rosenker, a retired Air Force general who
led the National Transportation Safety Board.

Email: romboy@deseretnews.com

Twitter: dennisromboy

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1271 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Romney still seen as top contender for secretary of state

BYLINE: Lisa Riley Roche Deseret News

LENGTH: 835 words


By Lisa Riley Roche

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Mitt Romney continues to be seen as a top contender to serve as
secretary of state in President- elect Donald Trump's new administration,
despite their differences.

Trump is "leaning toward" naming Mitt Romney to serve in the key post, The Wall
Street Journal reported Tuesday, citing unnamed people familiar with the
billionaire businessman's deliberations.

According to the newspaper, Trump's decision is being delayed by "an internal
tug of war" between supporters of Romney and those backing former New York Mayor
Rudy Giuliani, while others on the transition team want to continue the search.

The newspaper said Trump views Romney - one of his harshest critics during the
presidential campaign - "as the prototypical choice to be the nation's top
diplomat," and that two people described the president-elect as "inclined to
select" Romney.

CBS News reported Tuesday that a source close to the transition said Romney
became "a serious contender" for the job after impressing Trump during their
meeting Saturday.

The network's source said Trump so enjoyed the meeting with Romney, the GOP's
2012 presidential nominee, that he no longer has his "head wrapped around Rudy
Giuliani," a loyal supporter who has talked publicly about the high-profile job.

"It seems so improbable that it just might be true," said Jason Perry, head of
the University of Utah's Hinckley Institute of Politics. "It's very clear why
this could be a good decision for Donald Trump."

Perry said not only would choosing Romney as secretary of state help Trump with
Republicans who have yet to get behind the president-elect, it would also ease
some of the concerns expressed by world leaders about the future of U.S. foreign
policy.

Because of the friction between the two men during the campaign, Perry said
selecting Romney would be seen as "bringing your most ardent critic into the
house and sitting him at the table."

Romney, who endeared himself to Utahns after taking over the troubled 2002
Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, labeled Trump a "phony" and a "fraud" in a
speech last March at the University of Utah aimed at stopping Trump.

Trump responded by referring to Romney as a "choke artist" and a "loser" who
pleaded for Trump's endorsement in the 2012 presidential race. He even
questioned whether Romney was really a Mormon.

But after spending more than an hour with Trump, Romney told reporters they
shared "a far-reaching conversation with regard to the various theaters in the
world where there are interests of the United States of real significance."

That conversation was widely reported as being about the position of secretary
of state. Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who sat in for part of the
discussion, called it "a very substantive meeting."

Don Peay, Trump's top supporter in Utah and a close friend of the Trump family,
said Romney is "absolutely" a possibility for secretary of state despite the
tension that emerged during the campaign.

"That's what businessman do. You don't get caught up in the petty politics,"
Peay said. "Trump's not going to play that game. They want the best and the
brightest, and the most capable."

He said while he is not speaking for the new administration, he expects that
Trump will announce all of the national security-related posts, including
secretary of state, by Dec. 1.

Secretary of state isn't the only position that Romney could be under
consideration for, he said, because of his experience in the business world and
as governor of Massachusetts.

"Mitt's a very talented businessman. He is a turnaround artist. I think there's
three or four roles he could play," Peay said, including running Health and
Human Services or the Veterans Administration, entities that "need a major
restructuring."

Trump told a meeting of about two dozen anchors and executives from broadcast
and cable networks on Monday that Romney "desperately wants" to be secretary of
state, according to a report in The New Yorker.

"That sounds like you're going to give it to somebody else," said Matthew
Wilson, a political science professor at Southern Methodist University in
Dallas. Still, Wilson said, he believes Trump looked at Romney seriously.

"Otherwise, why would Trump meet with him? Trump doesn't need anything from Mitt
Romney," Wilson said. "Giving him that position would signal that Trump is
willing to rise above personal animosity ... to be the bigger man."

But that impression disappears if Trump doesn't find a role for Romney, he said.

Just how well a Secretary of State Romney would fit into the Trump
administration remains to be seen.

"A president and a secretary of state have to work together closely. It's pretty
clear that Mitt Romney and Donald Trump are not temperamentally similar," Wilson
said, with Romney more methodical and Trump governing from the gut.

"That would probably over time drive Romney crazy," he said, especially given
the delicate work of negotiating with other governments.

Email: lisa@deseretnews.com

Twitter: DNewsPolitics

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1272 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Clinton supporters urge her to seek a recount

LENGTH: 960 words


TRIP GABRIEL

and DAVID E. SANGER

New York Times

Hillary Clinton's lead in the popular vote is growing. She is roughly 30,000
votes behind Donald Trump in the key swing states of Michigan and Wisconsin - a
combined gap that is narrowing. Her impassioned supporters are now urging her to
challenge the results in those two states and Pennsylvania, grasping at the last
straws to reverse Trump's decisive majority in the Electoral College.

In recent days, they have seized on a report by a respected computer scientist
and other experts suggesting that Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, the keys
to Trump's Electoral College victory, need to manually review paper ballots to
assure the election was not hacked.

"Were this year's deviations from pre-election polls the results of a
cyberattack?" J. Alex Halderman, a computer science professor at the University
of Michigan who has studied the vulnerabilities of election systems at length,
wrote on Medium on Wednesday as the calls based on his conclusions mounted.
"Probably not."

More likely, he wrote, pre-election polls were "systematically wrong." But the
only way to resolve the lingering questions would be to examine "paper ballots
and voting equipment in critical states," he wrote.

Tellingly, the pleas for recounts have gained no support from the Clinton
campaign, which has concluded, along with outside experts, that it is highly
unlikely the outcome would change even after an expensive and time-consuming
review of ballots.

But that has not quieted Clinton's supporters, who see the inequity of her
growing lead in the national popular vote, which is now more than 2 million
votes, or 1.5 percent of all ballots cast, according to the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report, which regularly updates its count as states continue to tally
and to certify votes.

Since there is currently no effort to review the paper ballots - which exist in
Michigan and Wisconsin, but only in parts of Pennsylvania - conspiracy theories
about the 2016 election may live on for years. After U.S. intelligence agencies
accused Russia of trying to influence the election by stealing and publishing
emails from the Democratic National Committee and a range of other institutions
and prominent individuals, the United States went on high alert to determine if
there was any attempt to sabotage the vote count. So far, no one in the Obama
administration has indicated that there is any such evidence.

In the three battleground states, Clinton is behind by 1.2 percent or less, and
the final results have not yet been certified. Uniting around the social media
hashtag #AuditTheVote, the campaign-after-the- campaign has picked up momentum
among activists still mourning Trump's victory and who echo, paradoxically, his
pre-election complaint that the vote was "rigged."

That view spread quickly on social media on Tuesday evening when New York
magazine published an article about Halderman and others who had contacted the
remnants of the Clinton campaign. It also generated pushback by experts who said
that even though it was theoretically possible to hack voting machines, it would
be enormously difficult - because it would have to be highly targeted in key
precincts and conducted on a scale required to assure Trump's victory.

"Left-wing conspiracy theories of vote rigging" are "pathetic," Dave Wasserman
of the Cook Political Report said on Twitter.

Time may have already run out. Pennsylvania allows individual voters to petition
for a recount, but the deadline was Sunday, said Wanda Murren, a spokeswoman for
the Pennsylvania Department of State. A candidate can also contest an election
in court, and the deadline is Monday.

Michigan and Wisconsin have not reached their deadlines for seeking a recount,
but they will in days. So far, Clinton has not requested any action, said Reid
Magney, a spokesman for the Wisconsin Elections Commission. Clinton would have
to triumph in all three states to win the Electoral College. The electors will
meet in December to formally choose the president. And there, Trump is ahead by
290 votes to Clinton's 232, with Michigan still officially uncalled.

As of Wednesday, Trump's lead in Michigan had shrunk to 10,704 votes, or 0.2
percent, according to the National Popular Vote Tracker maintained by the Cook
Political Report.

Trump's lead in Wisconsin has narrowed to 22,525 votes, or 0.8 percent. In
Pennsylvania, his lead slightly grew on Wednesday, to 70,010, or 1.2 percent.

The Clinton campaign did not respond to requests for comment. Other Democrats
said it was time to move on.

"I'm not sure it's possible to undo the results, and all the people are focusing
their energy on opposing the worst ideas of this administration at this point,
not the legitimacy of the results," said Daniel Doubet, an organizer for
Keystone Progress, a liberal group in Pennsylvania.

Those pushing for a recount say they are trying to pick up the fight for a tired
and demoralized candidate and her staff.

"The Democratic Party and the Hillary campaign are exhausted, and they're really
hurting, and they may not have the clarity," said Zuckerman-Parker, who briefly
volunteered for the Clinton campaign.

By poring over local election results online, the Audit the Vote crowd uncovered
what appeared to be anomalies in the counting. Helen Manich of National Harbor,
Maryland, for one, noticed that Sauk County, Wisconsin, reported that 31,838
ballots were cast overall, but the total votes for presidential candidates
numbered 34,323.

Such glitches are not uncommon, election experts said. They are usually ironed
out in the process of certifying results. Although those certifications might
change the results by several hundred or several thousand votes, they are highly
unlikely to move tens of thousands.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1273 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Will Chaffetz's committee continue to probe Clinton?

BYLINE: Lisa Riley Roche Deseret News

LENGTH: 766 words


By Lisa Riley Roche

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Now that President-elect Donald Trump has made it clear he
doesn't want to pursue an investigation into rival Hillary Clinton, will Rep.
Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, go forward with his promised probe?

Chaffetz, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
declined to comment on Trump's new stand, spelled out during an interview
Tuesday with reporters and editors at the New York Times.

But Trump's decision to "move forward" from his threat to go after the
Democratic presidential nominee from the White House may mean that Chaffetz is
rethinking his committee's look into Clinton's use of a private email server as
secretary of state.

"I think he's in a tight spot," said Chris Karpowitz of the BYU Center for the
Study of Elections and Democracy. "That type of action tends to look like you're
going after political enemies, not serving the legitimate oversight duties of
Congress."

The center's co-director said with a new Republican administration and continued
GOP control of Congress, "continuing to rehash the ethical challenges of Hillary
Clinton will seem petty and hyperpartisan."

Particularly since Democrats, including the committee's ranking member, Rep.
Elijah Cummings, D-Maryland, are already calling for a review of Trump's
finances for potential conflicts of interest between his business empire and the
presidency.

"Significant questions have been raised about how the Trump administration is
going to balance private business interests with the public interest," Karpowitz
said, but it is unclear if those will be pursued "with the same doggedness and
vigor."

Sutherland Institute President Boyd Matheson, however, said Chaffetz has already
helped shift the committee from being seen as "nothing more than witch hunt
central" for whatever party was in power in Congress.

Still, he said, it won't be easy balancing Trump's signaled desire to focus on
other issues rather than "risk a petty, political, poking around" into Clinton's
emails and family foundation with calls to dig into the new president's
finances.

Chaffetz will "definitely be the one at the tip of the spear on that," Matheson
said, but he also has an opportunity to elevate the committee "in a way that's
better for the country. That's huge. That's a heavy lift."

Trump told the Times that "we'll have people do things," suggesting that could
mean some sort of continued investigation of Clinton, even though that will not
be a priority for the new administration.

"I don't want to hurt the Clintons, I really don't," Trump said, despite dubbing
the former secretary of state "Crooked Hillary" and leading chants to "lock her
up" during the campaign.

Trump said that Clinton "went through a lot and suffered greatly in many
different ways" in what he termed a "vicious" campaign that saw him pledge
during a debate to appoint a special prosecutor with the intent of putting her
in jail.

Even before Trump's Nov. 8 victory, Chaffetz said his committee would not halt
its investigation into whether Clinton's private email server threatened
national security.

He said he was under increased security after receiving death threats for
announcing shortly before the election that the FBI had reopened its case
against Clinton because of a letter to congressional leaders about reviewing
additional emails.

The review turned up nothing new, and Clinton blamed her loss on the attention
it drew to the FBI's earlier investigation that had concluded in July she should
not be criminally prosecuted.

The day after the election, Chaffetz said it would "be totally remiss" for the
committee to dismiss its investigation because Clinton would not be president.
He had said he did not expect to call Clinton to testify.

"I still have a duty and obligation to get to the truth about one of the largest
breaches of security at the State Department," Chaffetz told the Washington
Post. "Tens of thousands of documents still have not been turned over to
Congress."

Chaffetz initially backed away from his support of Trump after a 2005 video
surfaced of a conversation Trump had with a TV host describing in graphic terms
making sexual advances on women.

But in late October, shortly after telling the Post the committee had "two
years' worth of material already lined up" should Clinton become president,
Chaffetz said he would vote for Trump after all.

In a tweet, the Utah congressman said then that he "will not defend or endorse
(Trump) but I am voting for him. HRC (Hillary Rodham Clinton) is that bad. HRC
is bad for the USA."

Email: lisa@deseretnews.com

Twitter: DNewsPolitics

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1274 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

New administration means new look at country's elderly programs

BYLINE: Lois M. Collins Deseret News

LENGTH: 657 words


It's hard not to wonder what senior-focused public programs and policy will be
crafted as the number of Americans who fall into older age brackets continues to
grow. Experts in aging policy and caregiving are pondering what the election
will mean to programs like Medicare, senior housing and Social Security.

It was a hot topic last week at the Gerontological Society of American annual
meeting in New Orleans, where several thousand experts who care for and about
the nation's elderly gathered. I attended as a recipient of a 2016 Journalists
in Aging Fellowship supported by New American Media, the Gerontological Society
of America and the Silver Century Foundation.

Experts pondered, among other things, "significant potential changes with
Medicaid and Medicare," as Brian W. Lindberg, executive director of the Consumer
Coalition for Quality Health Care, put it.

He joked that, while preparing to make presentations on what to expect,
"everybody threw out their powerpoint" once the national election results were
in.

There's no way to predict accurately what a new administration will do,
especially as one political party now controls House, Senate and White House.
Since the president-elect hasn't been part of the policy-making process, it's
harder to predict his preferences or the alliances he will form to drive policy
and how that will change things.

That means both "challenges and opportunities. ... We may have to come up with
compromises to protect programs," Lindberg told reporters at a press briefing.

Lots of people predict big changes to hot campaign topics like immigration and
the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) because of promises made during the
presidential campaign. But many Americans - especially older Americans - may not
realize programs like Medicare and Social Security, on which they rely and that
they probably take somewhat for granted, could be impacted. For instance, House
Speaker Paul Ryan has made no secret of the fact he'd like to see Medicare, the
nation's health insurance program for the elderly, changed to a voucher system.
That's a dramatic program overhaul.

Dr. Toni Miles, director of the University of Georgia's Institute of
Gerontology, thinks people may have forgotten Medicare's historic civil rights
roots. "No one talks about it in those terms," she said, adding Medicare stopped
ageism and desegregated hospitals. It also pays to educate doctors.

Other conference experts said few people connect undoing ACA to changing
Medicare, but it would. There's "a lot of reform of Medicare on the delivery and
payment side of ACA," said Robyn I. Stone, a former assistant secretary for
aging and executive director of the LeadingAge Center for Applied Research.

That ACA and Medicare are somewhat intertwined will make it harder to repeal the
act, she predicted. Who, she asked, wants to undo the fix to what has been
called the Medicare donut hole - the gap some older Americans hit between
prescription coverage limits in Part D Medicare and the amount where
catastrophic coverage kicks back in? For some, that hole has been truly
catastrophic in the past and vexed politicians, policymakers and program
participants alike.

"ACA is huge. You can't repeal it without hurting a lot of people, including the
elderly," Stone said. She predicted that even "playing with" Medicaid, which
covers the poorest Americans, would greatly impact elderly people because it's
the safety net that provides long-term care for those who otherwise would not
have options or who have depleted even their sometimes-considerable resources to
pay for nursing home care.

Amid the worries, a few experts noted that programs could also get a boost. It's
too soon to say. But it's certainly something that older Americans - and their
younger caregivers, relatives and friends - should watch closely.

Congress reauthorized the Older Americans Act in April, with funding assured
through 2019.

Email: lois@deseretnews.com

Twitter: Loisco

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1275 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Utah politicos' heartfelt expressions of gratitude

BYLINE: Frank R. Pignanelli For the Deseret News, By LaVarr Webb For the Deseret
News

LENGTH: 967 words


Even politicos celebrate Thanksgiving, conceding that they have much to be
grateful for (especially for not being tarred and feathered by election-weary
citizens). WikiLeaks, Russian wiretapping and anonymous hactivists have nothing
on us because through clandestine means we were able to simultaneously Skype
dozens of heartfelt expressions of gratitude politicians voiced last Thursday
before diving into the sour grapes (those who lost on Nov. 8) or the roasted
donkey (those who won).

Utah Republican leaders: We are grateful for Mormon guilt and sense of civic
duty. It took a while to kick in this year, but the last-minute rush to vote
prevented many GOP defeats. It's so much fun to dash the hopes of Democrats who
thought they had won.

Utah Democratic leaders: Even though we predicted a gain of up to nine
legislative seats, we are resigned to being Charlie Brown, always having the
football pulled away at the last second. We're just grateful that Republicans
now have to live with Donald Trump for four years.

National pollsters, pundits, campaign experts, political wise men: This crow
we're eating for Thanksgiving dinner is actually pretty tasty. We are grateful
for the insecurity that exists in the political process - forcing politicians,
campaign managers and interest groups to continue to hire us even though we
botched it in 2016.

Twitter executives and shareholders: Our stock may be struggling, but we are
grateful that the soon-to-be leader of the free world uses our humble little
tool as his signature means of communicating. We're confident he can frighten
terrorists and stop Russian tanks from invading Ukraine by blasting them with
140-character bombshells. After all, the FBI's discoveries while investigating
the bizarre tweeting by the husband of Hillary Clinton's former chief of staff
helped bring down the entire Democratic presidential campaign. Is this a great
country, or what?

Evan McMullin: I'm grateful for arcane constitutional provisions regarding the
Electoral College that gave me a lot of national attention as pundits watched to
see if I would win any electoral votes. I didn't win, but I exhausted the
potential of this gambit by raising $1 million and launching a political career.

Right-wing activist groups: The Lord moves in mysterious ways. We're grateful
that a vulgar playboy billionaire is the vehicle to implement our conservative
agenda.

Left-wing activist groups: The Lord moves in mysterious ways. President-elect
Trump is already helping us raise more money than ever before. And we are
confident the vulgar playboy billionaire will promote some of our agenda.

News media owners: Sure, we were shocked at the election outcome, but we're
grateful that Trump's antics in the primary and general elections delivered
incredible ratings. Now we have another four years of huge profits.

Trump activists Don Peay & House Speaker Greg Hughes: We're pleased to say,
"Told you so" to all those Never-Trumpers who didn't believe. Now we're keeping
our cellphones charged. Wouldn't want to miss a call from Trump Towers.

Gov. Gary Herbert: Four more years of Thanksgiving dinners in the Governor's
Mansion is worth gobbling about. And now if Trump will take Greg Hughes to
Washington, I will REALLY have happy holidays.

Congressman Jason Chaffetz: Hillary may not be around, but I am thankful that
there will be plenty of Obama holdover appointees and controversies within the
new administration to investigate. Washington, as always, will be a "target
rich" environment for Oversight Committee inquiries.

Sen. Mike Lee: I am thankful that Trump needs me more than I need him. If he's
willing to play nice with Mitt Romney, I should be in good shape. And there's
always that outside chance of the Supreme Court. ...

Former governor and ambassador to China Jon Huntsman Jr.: I have much to be
grateful for this season. I'm glad I was prescient enough to endorse Trump. I'm
happy the Utah election showed an independent can gain traction. I am pleased
that SB54 is available to avoid hardline delegates. I'm especially thrilled that
Sen. Hatch promised long ago that he wouldn't seek another term in 2018.

Sen. Orrin Hatch: I am grateful that so many people consider me indispensable.
I'm indispensable to the president if he wants to get his priorities and
appointees through the Senate. I'm indispensable to the people of Utah to keep
an eye on Trump. I'm indispensable to ensure a conservative Supreme Court. Just
call me the Indispensable Man as I look toward 2018.

Congresswoman Mia Love: I give thanks for a healthy 14-point victory. That
should keep those pesky national Democrats quiet about my district.

Congressman Rob Bishop: With Hillary out and Trump in, a monument designation is
in jeopardy and my public land legislation is now viable. I am grateful for
those Trump voters in the swing states.

Jason Perry, director of Hinckley Institute of Politics: Trump, Bernie, Hillary,
Cruz, McMullin Herbert, Johnson, Weinholtz, email controversy, Hollywood Access
video, Twitter rants, competing pollsters, etc. I am grateful for a very
exciting year in Utah politics.

Pignanelli & Webb: As always, we are grateful for the enduring patience of the
Deseret News and readers who actually peruse our musings, and family members who
tolerate our grumpiness as the weekly deadline approaches.

Please have a wonderful holiday season.

Republican LaVarr Webb is a political consultant and lobbyist. Previously he was
policy deputy to Gov. Mike Leavitt and Deseret News managing editor. Email:
lwebb@exoro.com Democrat Frank Pignanelli is a Salt Lake attorney, lobbyist and
political adviser. Pignanelli served 10 years in the Utah House of
Representatives, six years as minority leader. His spouse, D'Arcy Dixon
Pignanelli, is a state tax commissioner. Email: frankp@xmission.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1276 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

understanding Teach

LENGTH: 607 words


Reports that school children of Hispanic and Muslim backgrounds have been
harassed by fellow students in the wake of the presidential election should be
troubling to everyone and acceptable to no one.

There is no justification for allowing attitudes of intolerance and prejudice to
seep into society. We don't know how common such acts of taunting or bullying
have been, but not a single incident should ever be abided by any responsible
person, and that goes for the parents of those children who may be influencing
such behavior. Such actions are nothing less than an extenuation of bigotry.

In the course of a presidential campaign that laid bare a national divide on
many issues and attitudes, there have been examples of harassment on both sides.
A middle-school student in Utah wrote openly in a piece published in the Deseret
News of how he found himself the subject of ridicule by fellow students when it
became known that his mother was a Democrat running for election to state
office.

He assessed poignantly how his young peers, in their taunts and teases, were
channeling behavior derived from the attitudes of the adults in their lives.
"They had to have learned this somewhere," he mused. "I think they are learning
this kind of talk in their homes, and I would hope we could have more respect
for each other."

The same is undoubtedly true in the cases of those who have gone after students
of minority backgrounds. In our view, the best approach to such incidents is one
of zero tolerance.

In Utah's Granite School District, reports of harassment have led officials to
encourage witnesses to formally report all such activity. Salt Lake County
Councilwoman Aimee Winder Newton reported hearing of cases in which children
have said to other children of minority backgrounds, "Now you're going to get
deported," or "Go back to your country." In a social media post, she said, "I am
sick about this."

The possibility that young children have been targeted and given reason to fear
for their safety is indeed sickening. The seeds of prejudice that lead to such
harassment were undoubtedly nurtured by the harsh political rhetoric from the
campaign trail. Debate over national issues has all too frequently gone to a
dark place where some have chosen to look at issues as "us against them."

Children can't be expected to comprehend all of the intricacies related to
national policy, but they are certainly capable of picking up on the
prerequisites of prejudice. These reported incidents of harassment present an
opportunity for deep self-reflection among parents. We ideally teach our
children about compassion, tolerance and civility.

Fortunately, just as we are hearing these troubling reports about bullying, we
are also seeing signs - quite literally - that convey the welcoming message that
America embraces people of all backgrounds.

A South Jordan, Utah, man, Austin Hudson, created signs for Election Day
featuring Uncle Sam beckoning with the words: "You belong here" and "This is a
country of immigrants and common people. No vote will ever change that. God
bless America. God bless you."

Although Hudson intended to place the posters surreptitiously, word of the good
deed spread. Messages have power for good or ill. When children begin to spread
messages that demean others based on race or culture, the blame falls to those
who should know better. We support political leaders for speaking out, and we
hope they inspire more people to raise their voice in solidarity with their
fellow Americans, especially children, who may feel targeted simply due to their
religious faith, political affiliation or ethnic background.

editorial

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1277 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Romney praises Trump following 2nd meeting

LENGTH: 927 words


By Lisa Riley Roche

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - A second meeting over dinner Tuesday night between
President-elect Donald Trump and Mitt Romney suggests one of Trump's toughest
critics during the campaign is still in the running to become secretary of
state.

"It sends a signal that Romney is a serious candidate, that this was about more
than a courtesy interview," said Chris Karpowitz, co-director of BYU's Center
for the Study of Elections and Democracy.

According to The Associated Press after the meal, Romney offered a glowing
review of Trump's transition thus far and his winning campaign. Romney notes
that "it's not easy to win," adding that Trump offered a vision that "connected
with the American people in a very powerful way."

He also said he has "increasing hope" that the president-elect can lead the
country to a "better future."

The dinner in New York City, which included Trump Chief of Staff Reince Priebus,
comes as key members of Trump's transition team are publicly criticizing the
possible pick for the diplomatic post.

Choosing Romney, who slammed the billionaire businessman as a "fraud" and a
"phony" in a speech last March at the University of Utah, would leave Trump's
supporters feeling "betrayed," Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway said
Sunday.

Others who supported Trump, such as former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and
former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, have also pushed back against Romney, the
GOP's 2012 presidential nominee considered an adopted Utah favorite son.

Trump is looking at other candidates for the job once held by his Democratic
rival in the presidential race, Hillary Clinton, including former New York Mayor
Rudy Giuliani, retired Gen. David Petraeus and Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker.

But after what Romney termed "a far-reaching conversation" about U.S. interests
around the world with Trump during their well-publicized meeting earlier this
month, the second meeting was set despite the split among Trump loyalists.

"There's obviously a great deal of controversy within the Trump team about
appointing Romney that's spilled out into the open in ways that are highly
unusual," Karpowitz said. "The whole process has been more public than we
typically see."

The Washington Post credited one of Romney's closest friends, Stephen Pagliuca,
with helping to ease the way for Romney and Trump to get past their campaign
rivalry.

Pagliuca, a co-owner of the Boston Celtics basketball team who has socialized
with Trump, also reached out to the president-elect's advisers to suggest Romney
be considered for secretary of state, the newspaper reported.

Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, who helped win over the state's Republicans to Trump,
told CNN that while there will also be "some criticism" of Romney, he wouldn't
join the new administration unless he could be supportive.

"I was glad to see them invite Mitt back," Hatch said. "He's going to be loyal.
He's going to be somebody who will carry the ball for them. That's one of his
great attributes. We'll just have to see what happens."

Kirk Jowers, the former head of the University of Utah's Hinckley Institute of
Politics, said typically, meeting for the second time about a job with a
president-elect over dinner "would be a phenomenally good sign" that the
decision had been made.

"But with Trump, you just don't know," Jowers said. "I think Romney has been a
profile in courage to go through this process. I know how much he loves his
country and that's why he's willing."

Karpowitz said Trump "seems to thrive on this uncertainty, the drama of the
process. In many ways, it does seem like a version of (Trump's former reality TV
show) 'The Apprentice.' Who will be sent home?"

Romney needs to decide if he wants to work in that atmosphere, Karpowitz said,
especially since having top advisers to the new president in open revolt against
him "makes it very dicey."

He said Trump and Romney are likely talking about how much influence the new
administration's secretary of state will have on foreign policy, since the pair
disagreed on many aspects, particularly when it comes to Russia.

At some point, though, all of the public attention on Romney's interest in the
job and the negative reaction to him "just becomes humiliating" if a decision
isn't forthcoming, Karpowitz said.

"I think his reputation is at risk in several ways. One is he's humiliated by
the process. The other is that he gets the job, and has to carry water on behalf
of policies he doesn't really believe in," he said.

Because Romney stood up so strongly against Trump during the primary, it could
hurt him to be viewed as "the face of Donald Trump to the world," Karpowitz
said, especially if he has little say as secretary of state.

Don Peay, who headed Utahns for Trump and is close to the Trump family, told KSL
Newsradio's Doug Wright that the new administration is working hard to get the
best people.

As for Romney, Peay said his harsh words are like a bullet in a gun that's been
fired because they cannot be taken back.

"I think we all just learned a lesson here," Peay said. "Gov. Romney is a great
guy, a super talent. But you know, some of his words have stung some people and
I think Trump is trying to work through that."

Still, he said the dinner meeting never would have been scheduled had Trump and
Romney not been willing to make that effort.

"Two gentlemen like that don't waste each others' time," Peay said. "Time is
infinitely valuable so there's obviously something going on there. We'll
probably know Wednesday or Thursday."

Contributing: Ladd Egan

Email: lisa@deseretnews.com

Twitter: DNewsPolitics

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1278 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Huntsman considering Senate run in 2018

BYLINE: Lisa Riley Roche Deseret News

LENGTH: 655 words


By Lisa Riley Roche

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Former Gov. Jon Huntsman Jr. confirmed Tuesday he is
considering a run in 2018 for the U.S. Senate seat now held by Sen. Orrin Hatch,
R-Utah.

"We're going to take a good look at this over the next six months to see how
best to serve a great state," Huntsman told the Deseret News after talking about
a potential run in a podcast interview with Bloomberg News that was released
Tuesday.

"I've always said that I've got one more run left in our bones. And I don't know
what that will be, but I love this country," Huntsman said in the Bloomberg
interview. "We're going to take a good look at maybe a future Senate run in the
state of Utah."

Huntsman, who calls Utah home despite living in the Washington, D.C., area after
serving as ambassador to China and a short-lived presidential run in 2012, said
his decision "in part would be based on what Sen. Hatch chooses to do."

Hatch, 82, had said during his 2012 primary election that he would not seek an
eighth term. But the Senate president pro tempore, who is third in the line of
presidential succession, said Tuesday he is being encouraged to run again.

"With (President-elect Donald) Trump winning and so forth, I think the
circumstances have changed dramatically," Hatch said, according to Bloomberg
News, citing his support of Trump before the election.

Utah GOP Chairman James Evans has said Hatch is necessary to ensuring the state
maintains a good relationship with the new administration. Some Republican
leaders in Utah failed to back Trump, who won the state with 45.5 percent of the
vote.

Huntsman suggested it may be time for Hatch to go.

"He has been a productive senator for nearly half a century, and I'm somebody
personally who believes in term limits," Huntsman told Bloomberg. "I always
have. You get into your job and you get out, hopefully leaving it a little
better for the next person to take over."

Huntsman was first elected governor in 2004 and resigned a year into his second
term to take the ambassadorship offered by President Barack Obama. His bid for
the White House ended after a third-place finish in the New Hampshire primary.

The list of potential GOP candidates for the Senate seat includes Rep. Jason
Chaffetz, R-Utah; Josh Romney, son of 2012 presidential nominee Mitt Romney; and
former state lawmaker Dan Liljenquist, who forced Hatch into a primary in 2012.

Republican Derek Miller, president and CEO of the World Trade Center Utah, and a
former chief of staff to Huntsman's successor, Gov. Gary Herbert, has said
publicly he's looking at a run.

On the Democratic side, former Congressman Jim Matheson is seen as a top
contender.

"Huntsman would be a formidable candidate. He was a popular and well-respected
governor in the state," said Chris Karpowitz, co-director of the BYU Center for
the Study of Elections and Democracy.

Still, Karpowitz said, voters may question Huntsman having "been gone for some
period of time. And he's worked in the Obama administration, and he's flirted
with supporting Donald Trump. ... He's been all over the map ideologically."

Huntsman, who had urged fellow Republicans to get behind Trump earlier this
year, said Trump should drop out after a 2005 video surfaced of the billionaire
businessman using graphic terms to describe making sexual advances on women.

Kirk Jowers, the former head of the University of Utah's Hinckley Institute of
Politics, said Huntsman would be the toughest candidate to beat, in part because
of his well-known philanthropic family.

Jowers said Huntsman's decision to talk about the race should be a warning to
any would-be competitors.

"Huntsman has positioned himself very well. The not-too-well disguised secret is
now public," he said. "So for anyone looking at that race, they know they would
have to beat either Sen. Hatch and/or Jon Huntsman, and that is a challenge not
for the faint of heart."

Email: lisa@deseretnews.com

Twitter: DNewsPolitics

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1279 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

When does Donald Trump start acting presidential?

LENGTH: 703 words


During the campaign, Donald Trump said that, if elected, he would act
differently than he did as a candidate. Perhaps he is waiting until the stroke
of noon on Jan. 20 to change his behavior because I don't see much difference as
president-elect. And that is bad for the country.

The new president-elect still tweets as if he were a candidate. Since Nov. 8, he
has made the same kind of outrageous claims he did before the election.
Yesterday, he charged that he had won the "so-called popular vote" if you deduct
the "millions of people who voted illegally." He also tweeted that there was
"serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California - so why isn't
the media reporting on this?" He offered no proof of his assertions. When Trump
was a candidate, he refused to promise he would abide by the election results
because the election was rigged. Amazingly, he won the electoral vote and he is
still claiming voter fraud!

He also claimed that had the campaign been for the popular vote only, he would
have campaigned in only three or four states. And therefore he "would have won
even more easily and convincingly." It seems the gracious, humble Donald Trump
who spoke right after the election was a temporary aberration. Candidate Donald
Trump has re-emerged.

Due to his hair-trigger temperament, he must respond to everybody and everything
who talks about him. Since the election, he has lambasted the cast of
"Hamilton," accused Saturday Night Live of being biased, called the press "the
crooked media" because of news coverage of his business interests, chastised
Hillary Clinton for conceding the election and then joining a recount effort,
and labeled that recount effort by former presidential candidate Jill Stein as a
"Green Party scam."

He tweeted his back and forth concerning an upcoming New York Times editorial
board meeting. The meeting was on, then off, then on. Trump blamed the Times
saying they had changed the conditions of the meeting at the last minute. During
that several-hour period, he tweeted about how biased the Times was - "they
continue to cover me inaccurately and with a nasty tone" and that complaints at
the Times were the highest in 15 years. "I can fully understand that - but why
announce?" Trump tweeted. Then, when the meeting was back on, he announced he
was looking forward to it.

A similar incident occurred a couple of days after the election when Trump
criticized "professional protesters" who were "incited by the media." Then, the
next day, he praised the protesters for having "passion for our great country."
It appears that President-elect Trump is as mercurial as candidate Trump.

His Cabinet pick process has been so public that it likely will damage
reputations. He tweeted that he was considering a particular person - Ben Carson
- for a cabinet position, which may make it embarrassing if Carson ultimately is
not chosen. He has paraded his potential appointees before the press with public
interviews and then allowed his transition team to criticize those who he is
publicly considering. A particular target in this process has been Mitt Romney.

Trump has even conducted foreign relations over Twitter, offending even a close
ally. He tweeted that he "would like to see Nigel Farage represent Great Britain
as their Ambassador to the United States." It is bad form for a national leader
privately to urge the government of another country to appoint a certain person
as an ambassador. It is highly damaging to do so in public. Not surprisingly,
the British prime minister was miffed at the suggestion and reacted negatively.

I hope Donald Trump does not wait until Jan. 20, or some later date, to start
acting presidential. The nation really does not need a president who undermines
public confidence in the electoral process, possesses a quick-trigger
temperament, and disparages anyone who disagrees with him. Donald Trump still
has the potential to be that kind of president, although it looks less and less
likely he actually will.

Richard Davis is a professor of political science at Brigham Young University.
He is the author of "The Liberal Soul: Applying the Gospel of Jesus Christ in
Politics." His opinions do not necessarily reflect those of BYU.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1280 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Trump's 'thank you' tour to stop in Utah

BYLINE: Lisa Riley Roche Deseret News

LENGTH: 594 words


By Lisa Riley

Roche

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - What's being billed as a "thank you" tour by President-elect
Donald Trump will make a stop in Utah, state GOP Chairman James Evans said
Wednesday.

Evans said he did not yet have a date for the event and could not say whether
Trump himself would make an appearance at the Utah stop. Trump is scheduled to
kick off the tour Thursday with a rally in Cincinnati.

The launch of the tour to states where Trump was victorious comes as the
president-elect continues to consider whether to appoint Mitt Romney, one of his
harshest critics during the campaign, or another candidate as his secretary of
state.

The day after Romney joined Trump for a high-profile dinner in a posh New York
City restaurant, reporters were told during the daily media call from the
president-elect's transition team there are still four "potential candidates"
for the post.

According to a transcript of the call in the Washington Post, Republican
National Committee spokesman Sean Spicer also said there is "no timetable set"
for the decision, but no further Cabinet appointments are anticipated this week.

Spicer did not name the candidates, but Romney, the GOP's 2012 presidential
nominee; former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani; former CIA Director David
Petraeus; and Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., have all been previously identified.

Romney, who labeled Trump a "fraud" and a "phony" in a March speech at the
University of Utah aimed at keeping the billionaire businessman from winning the
primary election, praised him after Tuesday's dinner, their second meeting.

He said Trump "continues with a message of inclusion and bringing people
together, and his vision is something which obviously connected with the
American people in a very powerful way."

Trump last appeared in Utah in March, just before he came in a distant third
place in the state's presidential preference caucus vote. He sent his running
mate, now Vice President-elect Mike Pence, to rally Utah Republicans in October.

Evans told KSL Newsradio's Doug Wright on Wednesday that Trump "really is fond
of Utah. I think this is a great opportunity to bring Republicans together" so
the campaign can express its gratitude for his victory in the state.

While Trump was statistically tied shortly before the election with Democrat
Hillary Clinton and independent conservative candidate Evan McMullin, he ended
up winning Utah with 45.5 percent of the vote.

Trump struggled with voters in a state so reliably Republican it had not voted
for a Democrat for president since 1964, especially after a 2005 video surfaced
of him talking in graphic terms about making sexual advances on women.

Some GOP leaders, including Gov. Gary Herbert, backed off their support for
their party's presidential pick. A few never endorsed Trump, but most did follow
Pence's urging that they "come home" to the nominee.

University of Utah political science professor Matthew Burbank said it's not
clear how a "thank you" visit from Trump would be received in a state where he
couldn't muster a majority of the votes.

"I would guess he would not get as warm a welcome here as he would other
places," Burbank said. "I think the message from Utah was this is a very
Republican place ... but there just wasn't a lot of enthusiasm for Trump."

Utah Democratic Party Chairman Peter Corroon said the Trump team's tour may be a
good idea because "frankly, he offended a lot of people during the presidential
election cycle, so this could be an opportunity for him to make amends."

Email: lisa@deseretnews.com

Twitter: DNewsPolitics

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1281 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Supreme Court and Sen. Hatch

BYLINE: Carrie Severino For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 737 words


By Carrie Severino

Americans are frustrated with their government today. Many don't believe
politicians do what they say. In these turbulent times, however, Utahns can be
proud of Sen. Orrin Hatch, whose leadership in the federal judicial appointment
process has been truly outstanding. Indeed, all Americans owe Hatch and the rest
of the Republican leadership a debt of gratitude for their leading role in
defending the Supreme Court and the Constitution.

Hatch was first elected in 1976, just as the public began to realize how
completely the federal judiciary had asserted control over our lives, our
liberty and our country. A few years later Hatch became a stalwart ally of
President Ronald Reagan's efforts to appoint judges who interpret the laws
instead of making them, and he has been an important contributor ever since.

Hatch's leadership became especially important this year, when the untimely
death of Justice Antonin Scalia left a gaping hole on the highest court in the
land. Finding a suitable replacement for Scalia would have been a difficult task
in any year, but this year Hatch had a strategic position from which to protect
his legacy. Indeed, by the time the vacancy arose, Hatch had been advocating in
the Senate for Scalia's principles longer than Scalia had been on the bench.

Scalia knew - as do most Americans - that judges are supposed to interpret and
apply the law, not make it up as they go along. This role ensures that the
American people and their elected representatives, not federal judges, are
responsible for the nation's future.

So when Scalia died in February, Hatch and the Republican leadership insisted
that the resulting vacancy be filled in the right way at the right time. Many
assumed the Senate had to confirm a replacement quickly, regardless of the
stakes or timing. But fortunately, Hatch's broad experience and perspective
suggested a different course, and Hatch used his considerable skills as an
advocate to pursue it.

He began by taking to the Senate floor and the airwaves to explain why the next
president should fill the Scalia vacancy. First, he said, the Senate had already
handled Supreme Court nominations at least a dozen different ways. He reminded
everyone that in 1992, then-Sen. Joe Biden (the chair of the Judiciary
Committee) advised President George H.W. Bush not to fill any vacancy before the
election. Like Biden before him, Hatch had concluded that properly considering a
Supreme Court nominee would be impossible in the middle of a presidential
campaign.

Second, Hatch argued, elections have consequences. The future of the Supreme
Court had already become an important issue in the presidential election, and
America would soon be electing a new president. The leading candidates were
likely to nominate very different justices with very different judicial
philosophies. The timing of the Scalia vacancy, therefore, created a unique
opportunity for the American people to make their voice known through the
election.

In hindsight, it is obvious Hatch was right on both counts. As Scalia once
argued, the Supreme Court's eagerness to control nearly every aspect of American
life turns every judicial nomination into a "hot potato," since each new nominee
might be the deciding vote that changes how the Constitution is interpreted and
understood. And fighting such battles during what would become an unusually
heated presidential campaign would have made the confirmation process less, not
more, fair.

Hatch and the Republicans gave the American people a special opportunity to be
heard on this issue. They spoke unequivocally. The percentage of voters for whom
Supreme Court appointments were the most important factor tripled from 2008, and
more than two-thirds of voters said the Supreme Court was an important factor in
their decision.

Like principled leaders do, Hatch took some criticism for his position. Unlike
his critics, though, he was looking beyond a single election cycle. And he had
to consider the long-term integrity of the judicial branch, not just a
particular nominee for a particular vacancy. His courageous actions this year
helped preserve the right of the American people to decide who fills the Scalia
vacancy. Our liberty, the courts and the Constitution itself are now safer.

Thank you, Sen. Hatch.

Carrie Severino, a former law clerk for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence
Thomas, is chief counsel of the Judicial Crisis Network.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1282 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday

Josh Romney will 'strongly support' Hatch re-election

BYLINE: Lisa Riley Roche Deseret News

LENGTH: 439 words


By Lisa Riley Roche

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Josh Romney, son of former presidential candidate Mitt Romney,
said Friday he will "strongly support" Sen. Orrin Hatch if the Utah Republican
runs for re-election in 2018.

"Sen. Hatch has done a tremendous job representing the state of Utah. If he
decides to run again, I would strongly support him and do anything I could to be
helpful to his re-election efforts," Josh Romney said in a statement.

Romney, a Salt Lake-based real estate developer, has been seen as a possible
candidate for the Senate in 2018, but he said again Friday he's more interested
in the governor's race in four years.

"I have been consistently asked by others to consider running for political
office, and running for governor in 2020 is definitely something I am strongly
considering," Romney said.

Hatch has not yet said whether he will seek an eighth term. He is the most
senior Republican in the Senate and serves as Senate president pro tempore,
third in the line of presidential succession.

On Tuesday, former Gov. Jon Huntsman Jr. confirmed he is considering running for
the Senate in 2018. Huntsman, a former U.S. ambassador to China who ran for
president in 2012, did not rule out taking on Hatch in a GOP primary.

Last January, Romney made a similar statement to the Deseret News about his
interest in the governor's race after Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, told the
newspaper he "would take a serious, serious look" at running for governor.

Gov. Gary Herbert, who took office in 2009 when Huntsman resigned to become an
ambassador, was re-elected this year to his second full term. He is not expected
to run again.

Other potential gubernatorial candidates include Lt. Gov. Spencer Cox, House
Speaker Greg Hughes, R-Draper, and former Congressman Jim Matheson, a Democrat.

Romney said his decision about making his first run for public office won't be
affected by what others do. Instead, it will be "based on what the right thing
to do is and the positive ideas and solutions I could offer for the future of
Utah," he said.

In September, Romney told members of the BYU Management Society it was tough for
him and his father to witness what he warned may be "permanent damage" to the
Republican Party from Donald Trump's candidacy.

Mitt Romney, who was one of the president-elect's harshest critics during the
campaign, is now being considered for secretary of state in the new
administration. Josh Romney has not commented on his father's potential role.

Email: lisa@deseretnews.com

Twitter: DNewsPolitics

Follow the leader

Stay in the loop on Jazz hoops with Utah Jazz beat writer Jody Genessy on
Twitter @DJJazzyJody

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1283 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

Bush-Gore race put Utah electors in spotlight in 2000

BYLINE: Dennis Romboy Deseret News

LENGTH: 504 words


By Dennis Romboy

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Electoral College members typically cast their votes in
obscurity unless some unusual circumstances arise in the presidential election.

The George W. Bush-Al Gore race in 2000 was one of those years.

It was the closest race in U.S. history. It was a rare occasion when the
eventual winner lost the popular vote. It was weeks of recounts and dimpled
chads in Florida. It took the U.S. Supreme Court stepping in to end the
uncertainty just days before electors were to convene around the country.

Republican Ron Fox was one of Utah's five electors at that time. He received a
letter from Bush campaign strategist Karl Rove after the Supreme Court decision
and Gore's concession speech, warning of possible shenanigans.

"... We must expect the unexpected. And even though Vice President Gore was
gracious in his remarks last night, there is always a chance that some
disaffected group may try to disrupt the Electoral College process next week,"
Rove wrote.

The presidential scrum made minor celebrities out of Utah's five GOP electors,
who were committed to Bush. Major news organizations interviewed them about
whether the Gore campaign has contacted them or if they had a notion to change
their votes.

Fox didn't hear directly from the Gore campaign, he said, but received telephone
calls, letters and emails from people urging him to switch his vote.

"I was getting a sizable amount of pressure," the North Salt Lake resident said.
"I never received a threat, per se. But it was an uncomfortable feeling."

Fox, who served as Bush's Utah campaign director, said he never thought about
voting for anyone but the Republican Texas governor. He sill has the pen he used
to sign the ballot.

Instead of quietly meeting in a room at the state Capitol that year, Utah's
electors conducted business in the rotunda because of the extraordinary
interest.

Hundreds of people, including several high school classes, showed up to witness
the traditionally obscure event. The electors themselves invited family and
friends. Some people attended because the presidential hoopla piqued their
interest.

"It was a pretty gosh darn big thing," Fox said.

The five Republican electors did what they were bound to do under state law and
voted for Bush, who had easily carried Utah. Bush ended up with 271 electoral
votes, just one more than required to win the presidency.

Local Democrats haven't participated in the Electoral College since 1964, when
Lyndon B. Johnson won Utah.

Fox was invited to a joint session of Congress to watch the counting of
electoral votes. He still has his ticket for the visitor's gallery in the U.S.
House of Representatives.

As vice president, Gore oversaw the opening of each state's ballot and had to
call his own loss. Gore was very businesslike, though it obviously wasn't
comfortable for him, Fox said.

"Gore was actually quite a gentleman," he said. "At the end, he faithfully
announced the final tally and walked off into history."

Email: romboy@deseretnews.com

Twitter: dennisromboy

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1284 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

Utah law: Electoral votes go to Trump

BYLINE: Lisa Riley Roche Deseret News

LENGTH: 1297 words


By Lisa Riley Roche

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY- Salt Lake County Councilman Richard Snelgrove's inbox is
overflowing with thousands of emails from around the country, urging him not to
vote for President-elect Donald Trump as one of the state's six presidential
electors.

A typical email, he said, is from a California mom who writes she's "never been
so disturbed and frightened by the outcome of a presidential election" and wants
him to "honor the majority" of Americans who voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton.

Some emails suggest he should write in the name of a fellow Republican, such as
former presidential nominee Mitt Romney, when electors meet in every state on
Dec. 19, Snelgrove said, noting that fewer than a dozen emails came from Utahns.

While Snelgrove said he's reading all those emails, nothing will change his
vote. Just as he did the first time he served as an elector, in 2008, when Utah
voted for Arizona Sen. John McCain, the councilman said he will fulfill his
duties.

Under Utah law, Trump must receive all the state's Electoral College votes as
the winner of the Nov. 8 presidential election here. Electors who fail to comply
are replaced but do not face any penalties.

"Even if we were not bound as electors, who am I to overturn the will of the
people?" Snelgrove said. "Trump carried Utah. He won it fair and square. No one
elected me king to go in there and defy the will of the people."

First-time Utah elector Kris Kimball questioned whether she'd be hearing from so
many people if it were Trump who had won the most votes nationally but lost the
electoral vote to Clinton, not the other way around.

Kimball shared a sample of her email, a note from a California woman telling her
to "be the hero we so desperately need" by voting for the person who won the
popular vote. "You have the power to correct a most terrible wrong."

Clinton leads the popular vote by 2.5 million votes and counting, but Trump took
the popular vote in 30 states with a total of 306 electoral votes - 36 more than
the 270 needed to become president.

"I don't see anybody who would even think to switch their vote because you're
elected to represent your party," Kimball said of her fellow electors, alloted
according to the number of U.S. Senate and House members that represent the
state in Washington, D.C.

A former Davis County GOP chairwoman, Kimball said she was a little
uncomfortable with the attention from so many people outside the state wanting
her to be a so-called "faithless" elector.

"I'm an elector to serve the people of Utah, which I'm totally fine with. But
all of a sudden there's all this national exposure," she said. "They're putting
you on a guilt trip; that's what they're doing. They don't understand there's no
choice in Utah."

Another Utah elector, Cherilyn Eagar, said she is trying to respond respectfully
to what she termed misinformation from people contacting her about her role in
the election.

"You just don't go out there and put some name on your ballot," Eagar said,
decrying the protests in the aftermath of Trump's victory. "We don't lend
ourselves to the emotional takeover of mob rule."

Even Utah elector Peter Greathouse, identified by Politico as one of a handful
of "Trump skeptics" with Electoral College votes nationwide, said it's pointless
to consider voting for anyone else because "it's not going to change anything."

Greathouse said he hopes this election will result in a re-examination of
prohibitions that prevent electors from straying from the popular vote results
in their states. There is no such federal or constitutional requirement.

"I would like the electors to have a little more freedom in their choices. I
also understand why the law is the way it is. But I would like to see the
binding part looked at again," he said. "Maybe we still need to do it. Maybe we
don't."

The emails the Utah electors selected in April at the state Republican Party
convention are receiving appear to be part of a national effort to shake up the
Electoral College.

It's the little-understood institution that actually elects the president,
through slates of electors named in each state by each candidate's political
party and sometimes bound by either pledges to those parties or by state law.

On Dec. 19, the day designated by Congress for the Electoral College vote,
Utah's electors will gather in Room 445 in the Capitol at noon for what is
expected to be a brief ceremony.

"All that has to happen is we get the six signatures and we're done," state
Elections Director Mark Thomas said. "I think it will be a fairly quiet day for
those electors. They'll just do what needs to get done."

Still, Thomas said officials plan to be "prepared for anything," including the
possibility electors balk at voting for Trump. Should that happen, their seats
would be considered vacant and immediately filled from a list of alternates, he
said.

"I know there's the idea that perhaps maybe there might be the opportunity for
an elector to go rogue. Perhaps that's a possibility in other states. I just
don't see it happening here," Thomas said.

University of Utah political science professor Matthew Burbank agreed.

"We usually don't have that conversation," Burbank said, noting that given the
way the process works in Utah, "there's no real reason for anybody to do
anything else here."

He said the Electoral College vote amounts to a civics lesson.

"It's a good reminder to us about how the system actually works. We tend to
think: 'I voted. I helped determine who won the presidency,' " Burbank said,
when in fact the popular vote overall doesn't count.

During his campaign, Trump acknowledged he had a "tremendous problem" with Utah
voters, who were uncomfortable with not only his bombastic style but also his
positions on a number of issues, including a proposed ban on Muslims entering
the country.

When a 2005 video surfaced in October of a graphic conversation between Trump
and a TV host about making sexual advances on women, some Utahns - including
Gov. Gary Herbert - backed away from supporting the GOP candidate.

An independent conservative candidate, Evan McMullin, was on the ballot in a
handful of states but focused on Utah, trying to take advantage of the
discomfort some voters in the reliably Republican state felt toward Trump.

In the end, Utah, a state that has not voted for a Democrat for president since
1964, once again stayed red. Trump won with 45.5 percent of the vote, followed
by Clinton with 27.5 percent and McMullin with 21.5 percent.

One of those Trump voters was Stan Lockhart, a leader of the "Stop Trump/Stop
Clinton" effort in Utah. Lockhart, who ran for elector and would be tapped as an
alternate if necessary, said he saw Trump as better than Clinton.

Lockhart said he's also receiving mail from out of state telling him to reject
Trump, but should he be called upon to vote as an elector, he would go with the
winner in Utah, just as he did when he served as a Republican elector in 2008
and 2012.

"I personally feel an obligation to how the state voted," the former state
Republican Party chairman said. "I'm not a freelancer. I'm there to represent
the will of the people."

The state GOP headquarters is getting lots of calls about the Electoral College
vote, Utah GOP Chairman James Evans said, "talking about how you can vote your
conscience, all that kind of stuff. Well, our law is clear."

Utah Democratic Party Chairman Peter Corroon said despite the outcome of this
year's election, he doesn't want to do away with the Electoral College in favor
of the popular vote.

"I just think it would provide too much power to the large states. We'd get less
attention," said Corroon, who would have been an elector under his party's rules
had Clinton won Utah. "I'm thinking long term."

Email: lisa@deseretnews.com

Twitter: DNewsPolitics

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1285 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

The state of Utah needs ranked-choice voting

BYLINE: Michael Reed Davison For the Deseret News

LENGTH: 643 words


By Michael Reed

Davison

In 2016, Utahns made history: We took an independent presidential candidate
seriously. With more than 20 percent of Utah's popular vote, Evan McMullin came
closer to winning electoral votes than any third-party candidate since Ross
Perot.

But our imperfect one-or-the-other system remains. This year, it offered the
American public the two most disliked presidential candidates in polling history
(based on favorability polls), and the swing states reluctantly chose Donald
Trump over Hillary Clinton.

Yet tens of thousands of Utahns chose to vote for an unaffiliated candidate - a
"protest" vote, in the words of Sen. Mike Lee, who said he voted for McMullin.
Nationally, more than a million people voted for Jill Stein, and several million
for Gary Johnson. Lacking another way for their beliefs to be represented, these
people chose to "vote their conscience" for a much less competitive candidate.
Personal conscience and political strategy came into conflict for tens of
millions. Still, many Americans concluded that the "lesser of two evils" was the
most moral or practical choice, given a flawed system. In this way, our approach
of choosing one "favorite" candidate pulls us into perpetual two-person races.

What if it didn't have to be like this? What if we could have a real third
choice, every election?

There's a simple answer: ranked-choice voting, a system Maine just voted into
law. You rank your top three candidates, and the system counts up everyone's
first-choice votes. The candidate with the fewest votes gets eliminated, and
their supporters' votes are transferred to their second choices. The least
popular candidates are eliminated, one by one, until someone wins over 50
percent of the vote. (This approach is sometimes called instant-runoff voting,
preferential voting or a single transferable vote.)

This means no one plays spoiler in a three-way race. If you favor Gary Johnson
but would prefer Donald Trump and Evan McMullin to the other alternatives, you
can vote for Gary Johnson as your first choice - and if he gets eliminated, your
vote will be transferred to McMullin or Trump.

Under this system, a nominee who is widely disliked among general voters - such
as Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton - must seek approval outside his or her core
base of supporters: ranked-choice voting aims to make it impossible to win with
less than 50 percent of the popular vote.

This approach has been tested by cities around the country, such as Minneapolis
and San Francisco, and it works well. If the Republican primaries had used this
system nationwide, Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz would have had a better shot at the
presidency, instead of splitting their supporters' vote among a variety of
moderate, establishment and tea party Republicans.

According to research cited by FairVote, ranked-choice voting tends to lead to
less negativity in campaigns. Because candidates need to win the second-choice
votes of their competitors' supporters, they have a major incentive to avoid
extremism and negativity. Imagine a political campaign where the candidates are
reluctant to sling mud, where no one need choose between a protest vote and the
lesser of two evils!

It isn't perfect - democracy never is - but ranked-choice voting is the simplest
way to move from a strict two-party system (or a one-party system, in many
states) to a stable, positive system that gives unaffiliated and third-party
voters an equal voice. In our decentralized election system, states and cities
are the only place this reform can start. State Rep. Rebecca Chavez-Houck is
already drafting a bill to put this idea into action in Utah. Ask your
representatives to give her their support, or ask your city to take the lead
today.

Michael Reed Davison is a father, an unaffiliated Utah voter and an MPA student.
He enjoys data analysis and cooperative gaming.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.


                             1286 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

EDITORIAL: Allow hope to supplant your fears

BYLINE: The Times Leader, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 636 words


Nov. 20--In a word, the reason presidential candidate Donald Trump did so well
among many Luzerne County voters is this: fear.

Fear remains among the most powerful of human motivators, and the Republican
masterfully capitalized on it throughout his campaign, particularly during the
doomsday scenario painted at the political party's convention in Ohio.

"Our convention occurs at a moment of crisis for our nation," Trump said in the
opening moments of his July speech to accept the GOP's nomination. "The attacks
on our police, and the terrorism in our cities, threaten our very way of life."

His dark tone, even more than the comparatively chipper "Make America great
again," spoke to large numbers of people in Northeastern Pennsylvania and
elsewhere, an audience eager for a savior.

Certainly, fear doesn't account for all of the support Trump received. Many
voters routinely enter their polling places and pick only the Republicans, or
only the Democrats, no matter what. Others presumably were drawn this time to
the glib billionaire because of a single issue (such as his supposed business
acumen or avowed pro-life stance). Still others preferred, and understandably
so, to vote for someone far removed from the old political power structure.

Yet a nearly palpable fear in Luzerne County no doubt propelled many people to
push the button for Trump, swaying the final results in his favor. His rhetoric
hit all the categories:

--Fear for personal safety. (Remember the record number of deadly shootings in
Wilkes-Barre three years ago? Voters do.)

--Fear of the outsider and the unknown. (Why should we, some of the Wyoming
Valley's longtime residents ask, make room for Syrians? Or Latinos?)

--Fear of job loss and economic uncertainty. (What happens if I'm let go this
week?)

People hungry for stability in their lives heard the ominous campaign speeches,
evaluated their personal feelings and circumstances, and gravitated to the
candidate who promised -- like a doting parent -- to make them safe. Trump, they
believe, is a protector of their families and the familiar.

Certain Democrats and Independents, who are no less susceptible to the power of
fear, say they are scared of what a Trump presidency might mean. Liberal groups
will harness the emotion to try to influence people's actions, pushing their
agendas.

Enough already! When will Americans correct our collective psyche, putting fear
in its rightful place? That's an argument we repeatedly have made on this page
for the better part of decade. From an opinion piece printed in December 2013,
here's what we said:

For too long, arguably since Sept. 11, 2001, we've been motivated more by fear
than any other emotion. Not curiosity. Not determination. Not gratitude. Not
pride.

And certainly not hope.

The financial crash of 2008 only made matters worse, ruining too many people's
livelihoods and wrecking dreams. Plus, as many Northeastern Pennsylvania
residents can attest, this region has more than its share of naysayers who can't
seem to ever acknowledge a silver lining because they'd rather curse the cloud.
Their ranks have been bolstered in recent years as real troubles -- natural
disasters, economic crises and crimes of the white collar and street varieties
-- conspired to deflate our plans, trample our trust.

Hope took a bruising.

But it shouldn't be neglected here any longer, and certainly not abandoned.
Without a healthy dose of hope, we will cease to solve our problems, to better
our circumstances, to attain goals (personal or public), to live to our full
potentials. If we don't instill hope in our children, we will fail them, too.

Don't give in to fear.

Go forward each day with hope.

___ (c)2016 The Times Leader (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Times Leader
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at www.timesleader.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161120-WB-EDITORIAL-Allow-hope-to-supplant-your-fears-1120-20161120

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WB


                        Copyright 2016 The Times Leader


                             1287 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Trump's policies could have deep impact in oil-rich New Mexico

BYLINE: Rebecca Moss, The Santa Fe New Mexican

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 2206 words


Nov. 20--FARMINGTON -- The barren landscape surrounding this city of 45,000 is
contoured with unpaved roads built to tap into what until a few years ago was
one of the nation's most productive oil and gas basins. Tall rigs once could be
seen in the distance exhaling spiraling plumes of fire and gas into the
atmosphere, a practice that over time helped to form a thick film of methane gas
that still hangs in the air above the Four Corners.

Environmentalists have called this an environmental crisis. It is the largest
concentration of the potent greenhouse gas in the United States, which not only
contributes to a rapidly warming climate but to an increased risk of respiratory
ailments and some cancers for populations exposed to it.

Still, when residents here and in surrounding San Juan County went to the polls
Nov. 8, they overwhelmingly voted for Republican President-elect Donald Trump,
who has promised to revitalize the struggling fossil fuel industry through
wide-scale deregulation and untrammeled federal land leasing. The vote wasn't
surprising -- this county traditionally votes Republican in presidential
elections. But as the number of idle wells dotting the terrain here has steadily
increased since oil prices crashed in 2014, Trump's economic promises struck a
chord.

"Putting the men and women back to work will be huge," said Mary McDonald, 56,
who manages an apartment complex in nearby Aztec called Miss Gail's that
frequently caters to oil and gas workers. Since the downturn, she said, more
renters have to split up payment of their rent, and few can afford to put down a
deposit when they sign a lease.

"They can't feed their kids or themselves," she said. "Something has to happen."

As Trump prepares to take office in January, communities like Farmington could
find themselves staging grounds in the clash between his economic and energy
policies and environmental threats, including climate change. Trump has promised
to roll back nearly every clean energy and climate policy enacted during the
Obama administration. His "America First" energy plan would end what he calls
the war on coal, provide open access to public lands and waters for mineral
extraction, and revamp the Environmental Protection Agency. Climate change was
declared a national security threat by the U.S. Department of Defense last year.
But on the campaign trail, Trump called climate change a "hoax" and conspiracy
theory.

Conservationists say facing off against the Trump administration will be
equivalent to environmental warfare, but many in the energy business see the
president-elect's policies as a saving grace after years of industry decline.

New Mexico is a particularly vulnerable area when it comes to environmental
regulation. In addition to the methane cloud hovering over the Four Corners, the
state is home to some of the largest oil and gas fields in the country. It has
vast, but largely unused, coal reserves. And with its expansive deserts and
abundant sunshine, the state has potential to be a national leader in clean
energy.

Some state politicians and energy groups in New Mexico say the Obama
administration has hurt business. Gov. Susana Martinez has expressed skepticism
about climate change and has pushed for business-friendly environmental
regulations.

"Just give us a moratorium, a breather," said Rep. James Strickler,
R-Farmington, a petroleum "landman" who acquires mineral rights for oil and gas
exploration. "We are being put out of business by unnecessary regulations."

But others say the ideology of the next administration has the potential to
savage the land, sacred space and people of New Mexico through aggressive
natural resource extraction, without concern for the environmental or health
impacts.

"This is going to be, from the conservation standpoint, the fight of our lives.
I think everything's on the table; everything's for sale," said Garrett
VeneKlasen, executive director of the New Mexico Wildlife Federation and a
lifelong Republican until this election.

The oil and gas industry

Strickler said Obama's energy policies are not working. "There is strong support
for change up in San Juan County, and that is why they voted overwhelmingly for
Trump," he said.

While Democrat Hillary Clinton won New Mexico, Trump support surged in oil-rich
areas, earning 60 percent of votes in San Juan and 70 percent in Eddy County.

The oil and gas industry is undergoing its largest downturn in more than two
decades. In San Juan County, nearly 6,000 jobs have evaporated and 11,000
residents have left since 2010, leaving the population at about 119,000,
according to the latest U.S. Census Bureau estimates. Energy giant
ConocoPhillips announced this week it plans to sell its assets in the county.

Strickler attributes this in part to regulations adopted this year by the
federal Bureau of Land Management and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
The regulations require oil and gas operators to curb flaring and venting of oil
rigs and mandate leak-capture measures.

Jason Espinoza, president of the New Mexico Association of Commerce and
Industry, also said Trump policies could help the energy industry. The New
Mexico Oil and Gas Association declined to comment for this story.

Trump's "America First" energy plan promises the United States will gain energy
independence by tapping into $50 trillion of untouched shale, oil and natural
gas reserves, as well as coal. He pledges to simplify the leasing process for
development on federal lands and remove other regulatory hurdles, creating jobs
and making energy more affordable.

But prices for natural gas are directly related to supply. Increasing production
will keep prices unsustainably low for producers, according to policymakers and
conservation advocates.

Environmental groups and many state and federal lawmakers also have applauded
the Obama administration's climate initiatives and methane-capture regulations.
Methane is a potent greenhouse gas, second only to carbon dioxide, and traps
heat in the atmosphere. It also has been linked to severe asthma and elevated
cancer risks. The rules are intended to reduce these effects.

U.S. Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., said he and other members of Congress are prepared
to push back against many of Trump's promises, including overturning the methane
rules.

"I'm very concerned by the poorly conceived energy policies Donald Trump
advocated during his campaign, as well as his lack of concern about the impact
global warming is already having on New Mexico communities," Udall said. "If he
oversteps, he can guarantee that I will be there to fight him every step of the
way."

Ben Shelton, political director for Conservation Voters New Mexico, said more
oil and gas production will hurt the state by reducing prices. State government
relies heavily on taxes from oil and gas production.

"That just means that New Mexico's financial woes are going to continue,"
Shelton said. He also said the state may face rising health care costs related
to environmental pollution.

"San Juan's heavily Latino and Native community downwind of the methane hot spot
is already impacted by health issues," and these will worsen with less
environmental regulation, he said.

Congressman Steve Pearce, R-N.M., and Republican State Land Commissioner Aubrey
Dunn, who oversees oil and gas drilling on state land, opposed the
methane-capture regulations, saying they would be harmful to industry.

Coal country

In August 2015, the EPA launched the Clean Power Plan, a carbon-reduction
initiative for power plants, which contribute 31 percent of all greenhouse
gases, according to the agency. Under the plan, fossil fuel-burning plants must
institute pollution-capture measures for low- or zero-emission production.

Obama also halted all new coal mining leases on federal land in January.

Trump has pledged to roll back these actions, gaining supporters in struggling
coal communities nationwide.

Mitch Knapton, Peabody Energy's operations manager in Grants, who overseas a
staff of 200 at the El Segundo coal mine, said, "We are hopeful that Trump will
push coal more than the other administration."

He said that while the coal market has been cyclical throughout his 30 years in
the industry, increased regulations and the development of renewable energy
options have particularly hurt.

"A lot of the other people [in the state] don't really understand how their
electricity gets to them and how important coal is to that piece of the pie," he
said.

But coal mining faces larger challenges than regulation. The demand for coal has
plummeted internationally because of the low price of natural gas and the
increased interest in renewable or other energy options, including nuclear,
solar and wind power. A number of large coal producers have filed for bankruptcy
in the past year, even before the Obama administration's regulations took
effect.

Peabody sought to sell its two New Mexico mines this year, but when the deal
failed, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, leading to layoffs in the
state.

Jeremy Nichols, climate and energy director for WildEarth Guardians, said
encouraging more coal mining won't revive the industry. "They are mortally
wounded," he said. "The coal industry is dying regardless of any environmental
regulation and there is nothing getting in the way of their enterprise."

Nichols said it's unlikely Trump can revitalize coal, but increased mining could
have devastating implications for the environment if pollution regulations are
relaxed.

"If he does what he says, it will be an unimaginable catastrophe for the entire
American West," Nichols said. "We are going to have to meet him head on and do
everything possible to rally New Mexico."

Nichols said he also worries about how the Trump administration will affect
efforts to close the Public Service Company of New Mexico's San Juan Generating
Station. The company has agreed to shutter two of its four coal-burning units,
replacing the energy with nuclear power, natural gas and some wind and solar.

Pahl Shipley, a spokesman for the company, said PNM worked with the EPA and the
state to meet existing requirements under the federal Clean Air Act and there
are no plans to change the agreement under a new administration. He said, "It
would put New Mexico in a good position to comply with the Clean Power Plan,
should it stand."

Renewable energy and climate change

Nichols and other environmentalists say the stakes of Trump's policies are
highest when it comes to global warming. While many are confident they can work
on the state level to maintain energy conservation policies, climate change
requires national collaboration, they say.

"We got the wind knocked out of us," Nichols said. "The time for action was
yesterday."

By causing record high temperatures, climate change in New Mexico is projected
to create grave water shortages and result in widespread wildfires. Scientists
at Los Alamos National Laboratory said in a 2013 study that the state could lose
the majority of its forests by 2050 as a result of climate change and drought.

Trump told Fox News in 2015, "We'll be fine with the environment. ... You can't
destroy businesses."

He said he will withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement, a
pledge by 193 countries and other signatories to reduce carbon emissions in the
coming decades. Trump appointed Myron Ebell, a vocal climate change denier, to
spearhead the transition work at the EPA.

New Mexico hasn't had a climate change task force at the state level since
Martinez took office in 2011. The city of Santa Fe launched a task force in
2014. Federal tax credits provide rebates for businesses and individuals who
invest in solar and wind energy, but Martinez vetoed an effort to extend the
state credit in 2015. The Martinez administration declined comment for this
story.

U.S. Sen. Martin Heinrich, D-N.M., said Trump will get rid of the federal credit
"over my dead body."

"Irrespective of the fact that Donald Trump is going to be in the White House,
those projects are going to move forward," he said.

Heinrich said, "The toothpaste is already out of the tube" for renewable energy
projects, and projects like wind farms are not only in demand, but create wealth
for communities.

"What he is really up against is not the Obama administration policy so much as
a changing set of economics," he added, saying Trump has made promises he won't
be able to keep.

Regina Wheeler, CEO of Positive Energy Solar, said the industry is hopeful Trump
will see the economic value of solar as a job creator and will support solar
policy. Solar sales have gone up since the election, she said.

Back in Farmington, there is concern about the environment, especially among
people who voted for Clinton. But others, like McDonald, who owns the apartment
complex, are putting their trust in Trump to create jobs and protect the water
and the air.

"I am sure he'll come up with a plan because he's a good businessman," she said,
"and that's what I have hope in him for."

Staci Matlock contributed to this report.

Contact Rebecca Moss at 505-986-3011 or rmoss@sfnewmexican.com

___ (c)2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) Visit The Santa Fe New
Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20161120-SF-Trump-s-policies-could-have-deep-impact-in-oil-rich-New-Mexico-1120-
20161120

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SF


                    Copyright 2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican


                             1288 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

From streets to holiday table, post-election tension persists

BYLINE: Cynthia Miller, The Santa Fe New Mexican

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1179 words


Nov. 20--Monica Pompeo, an Española native who now lives in Albuquerque,
received plenty of grief while campaigning for Donald Trump. The election hasn't
eased matters. Drivers have flashed her the middle finger over her "Hillary for
prison" bumper sticker, she said, and last week she got a searing look from a
shopper at a Whole Foods store while wearing her "Vets for Trump" button -- a
gift from a military veteran who appreciated her campaign efforts.

Now she's got the holidays to think of.

"Thanksgiving could be kind of interesting," Pompeo said. She had planned to
bring Champagne, but she's certain her extended family won't feel like
celebrating.

Hundreds of reports of hate-filled incidents have emerged throughout the nation
following Republican Trump's surprising presidential victory Nov. 8 over
Democrat Hillary Clinton, from Trump supporters harassing Muslims to
anti-Semitic graffiti being scrawled on walls. But the post-election tension
also is unfolding in more subtle ways: severe looks, uncomfortable conversations
among friends and family members, and ire over continued displays of support for
a candidate.

Alexis Deneau of Santa Fe said her car was egged two days after the election,
and she believes it was because her vehicle sported a Bernie Sanders magnet. A
Corrales woman said she was harassed for wearing a safety pin -- what she called
a quiet way of saying "you're safe with me" to people who might be feeling
fearful.

Such is America in the wake of one of the nastiest presidential campaigns in
memory and an election that has left lingering shock and a fracturing of
civility in many corners of society. The tension has prompted schools and
government agencies to send out messages to students, parents and employees with
guidance on how to navigate the range of emotions and hostilities being felt by
both Clinton and Trump supporters.

Last week, Santa Fe Public Schools Superintendent Veronica García held a news
conference to ease concerns of immigrant children. She announced efforts to keep
them safe in schools, such as a new hotline to report bullying, and ensured
students that attending school puts them at no risk of deportation. The district
doesn't collect information on their immigration status, she said.

Archbishop John C. Wester of the Archdiocese of Santa Fe issued a statement
Friday in support of immigrants and others who might feel targeted, and he
encouraged all Catholics to practice "deliberate civility."

Tricia Veech, a licensed therapist in Santa Fe, offered similar advice to people
who are anxious about upcoming holiday gatherings with friends and family who
hold opposing views: Keep conversations polite rather than political. "Be
prepared to talk about things you have in common," she said, such as shared
memories, and have compassion.

Veech has been helping many clients cope with anxiety about the election's
outcome. She encourages them to stay connected with like-minded people, take
care of themselves and avoid social media. That's where some of the worst
threats and insults are being hurled among loved ones, the kind of words that
might not have been spoken in the past. "Social media has changed the norms,"
Veech said.

But she believes much of the bitterness and distress will pass. "People cope,"
she said. "We'll cope with this as much as anything."

In the days since Trump soared to a victory over Clinton, social media sites
have filled with the signals of post-election fury: images of racist graffiti
and personal accounts of harassment, intimidation and assaults targeting Latin
American immigrants, Muslims, members of the LGBT community, black people and
women. A Muslim student at The University of New Mexico reported that a man
wearing a Trump shirt tried to remove her hijab. The Alabama-based Southern
Poverty Law Center has collected more than 700 reports like this, including over
200 targeting immigrants. About half a dozen were from New Mexico.

Most of the incidents occurred within the first three days after the election, a
sign that tensions might be beginning to ease.

But Trump's opponents say his victory has given some of his supporters a license
to unleash their hate, and this could have a lasting effect.

Darin Benally, a Farmington resident, told The New Mexican that young, white men
have been terrorizing Hispanics and Native Americans in the city for at least
the past year. He's witnessed the violence. Many of the men meet downtown on
weekend nights, waving Confederate flags, he said. He fears Trump's presidency
will encourage them. "I think it's gonna give them more freedom."

Trump supporters also have faced threats and physical attacks, and thousands of
protesters have taken to the streets to denounce Trump's presidency -- including
in Santa Fe and Albuquerque, and on college campuses throughout New Mexico.
Vandals defaced buildings and artwork on the UNM campus with anti-Trump
graffiti.

Luke Armijo of Albuquerque says some "sore-losing Democrat" wrote "traitor" on
the Donald Trump sign in his yard -- Armijo believes it was because he is
Hispanic. During the presidential campaign, Trump called undocumented immigrants
from Mexico murderers and rapists, drawing the ire of Hispanics in New Mexico
and throughout the nation. But Armijo isn't Mexican, and he isn't apologizing
for his vote.

"I want change and therefore voted for it," he said in a Facebook post.

Pompeo, the Trump supporter from Albuquerque, had hoped to continue holding her
campaign signs at busy intersections to show her support for the
president-elect, but now she's not so sure. "I don't want to be attacked," she
said.

Santa Fe appears to have avoided the most brutal types of encounters. City
police spokesman Greg Gurulé said officers haven't had any reports of threats or
violence tied to the election. Nor have Santa Fe County deputies seen such
activity, sheriff's office spokesman Juan Ríos said.

Still, residents here say incidents have left them shaken.

"People who are angry are coming out of the woodwork," said Ziggy Prothro of
Santa Fe.

On Election Day, her husband had to flee from a man who came running at his car,
yelling "Jail the bitch," after seeing his pro-Clinton bumper stickers. Prothro
peeled the stickers off the car.

Kristen Rushing, who lives in Eldorado, said she posted a notice on Facebook
about a meeting planned Sunday at the Center for Progress and Justice to discuss
ways to move forward after the election. Another resident demanded that she
delete the announcement and threatened to report her to the FBI. Rushing said
she felt bullied and a little unsafe.

Rushing also is uneasy about the holidays. Some Trump-supporting family members
are coming for a weeklong visit.

"I think we'll just have to make a deal that we don't talk about politics at
all," she said.

The New Mexican's Rebecca Moss contributed to this report.

Contact Cynthia Miller at 505-699-5655 or cmiller@sfnewmexican.com

___ (c)2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) Visit The Santa Fe New
Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20161120-SF-From-streets-to-holiday-table-post-election-tension-persists-1120-20
161120

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SF


                    Copyright 2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican


                             1289 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Trump's policies could have deep impact on oil-rich New Mexico

BYLINE: Rebecca Moss, The Santa Fe New Mexican

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 2206 words


Nov. 20--FARMINGTON -- The barren landscape surrounding this city of 45,000 is
contoured with unpaved roads built to tap into what until a few years ago was
one of the nation's most productive oil and gas basins. Tall rigs once could be
seen in the distance exhaling spiraling plumes of fire and gas into the
atmosphere, a practice that over time helped to form a thick film of methane gas
that still hangs in the air above the Four Corners.

Environmentalists have called this an environmental crisis. It is the largest
concentration of the potent greenhouse gas in the United States, which not only
contributes to a rapidly warming climate but to an increased risk of respiratory
ailments and some cancers for populations exposed to it.

Still, when residents here and in surrounding San Juan County went to the polls
Nov. 8, they overwhelmingly voted for Republican President-elect Donald Trump,
who has promised to revitalize the struggling fossil fuel industry through
wide-scale deregulation and untrammeled federal land leasing. The vote wasn't
surprising -- this county traditionally votes Republican in presidential
elections. But as the number of idle wells dotting the terrain here has steadily
increased since oil prices crashed in 2014, Trump's economic promises struck a
chord.

"Putting the men and women back to work will be huge," said Mary McDonald, 56,
who manages an apartment complex in nearby Aztec called Miss Gail's that
frequently caters to oil and gas workers. Since the downturn, she said, more
renters have to split up payment of their rent, and few can afford to put down a
deposit when they sign a lease.

"They can't feed their kids or themselves," she said. "Something has to happen."

As Trump prepares to take office in January, communities like Farmington could
find themselves staging grounds in the clash between his economic and energy
policies and environmental threats, including climate change. Trump has promised
to roll back nearly every clean energy and climate policy enacted during the
Obama administration. His "America First" energy plan would end what he calls
the war on coal, provide open access to public lands and waters for mineral
extraction, and revamp the Environmental Protection Agency. Climate change was
declared a national security threat by the U.S. Department of Defense last year.
But on the campaign trail, Trump called climate change a "hoax" and conspiracy
theory.

Conservationists say facing off against the Trump administration will be
equivalent to environmental warfare, but many in the energy business see the
president-elect's policies as a saving grace after years of industry decline.

New Mexico is a particularly vulnerable area when it comes to environmental
regulation. In addition to the methane cloud hovering over the Four Corners, the
state is home to some of the largest oil and gas fields in the country. It has
vast, but largely unused, coal reserves. And with its expansive deserts and
abundant sunshine, the state has potential to be a national leader in clean
energy.

Some state politicians and energy groups in New Mexico say the Obama
administration has hurt business. Gov. Susana Martinez has expressed skepticism
about climate change and has pushed for business-friendly environmental
regulations.

"Just give us a moratorium, a breather," said Rep. James Strickler,
R-Farmington, a petroleum "landman" who acquires mineral rights for oil and gas
exploration. "We are being put out of business by unnecessary regulations."

But others say the ideology of the next administration has the potential to
savage the land, sacred space and people of New Mexico through aggressive
natural resource extraction, without concern for the environmental or health
impacts.

"This is going to be, from the conservation standpoint, the fight of our lives.
I think everything's on the table; everything's for sale," said Garrett
VeneKlasen, executive director of the New Mexico Wildlife Federation and a
lifelong Republican until this election.

The oil and gas industry

Strickler said Obama's energy policies are not working. "There is strong support
for change up in San Juan County, and that is why they voted overwhelmingly for
Trump," he said.

While Democrat Hillary Clinton won New Mexico, Trump support surged in oil-rich
areas, earning 60 percent of votes in San Juan and 70 percent in Eddy County.

The oil and gas industry is undergoing its largest downturn in more than two
decades. In San Juan County, nearly 6,000 jobs have evaporated and 11,000
residents have left since 2010, leaving the population at about 119,000,
according to the latest U.S. Census Bureau estimates. Energy giant
ConocoPhillips announced this week it plans to sell its assets in the county.

Strickler attributes this in part to regulations adopted this year by the
federal Bureau of Land Management and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
The regulations require oil and gas operators to curb flaring and venting of oil
rigs and mandate leak-capture measures.

Jason Espinoza, president of the New Mexico Association of Commerce and
Industry, also said Trump policies could help the energy industry. The New
Mexico Oil and Gas Association declined to comment for this story.

Trump's "America First" energy plan promises the United States will gain energy
independence by tapping into $50 trillion of untouched shale, oil and natural
gas reserves, as well as coal. He pledges to simplify the leasing process for
development on federal lands and remove other regulatory hurdles, creating jobs
and making energy more affordable.

But prices for natural gas are directly related to supply. Increasing production
will keep prices unsustainably low for producers, according to policymakers and
conservation advocates.

Environmental groups and many state and federal lawmakers also have applauded
the Obama administration's climate initiatives and methane-capture regulations.
Methane is a potent greenhouse gas, second only to carbon dioxide, and traps
heat in the atmosphere. It also has been linked to severe asthma and elevated
cancer risks. The rules are intended to reduce these effects.

U.S. Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., said he and other members of Congress are prepared
to push back against many of Trump's promises, including overturning the methane
rules.

"I'm very concerned by the poorly conceived energy policies Donald Trump
advocated during his campaign, as well as his lack of concern about the impact
global warming is already having on New Mexico communities," Udall said. "If he
oversteps, he can guarantee that I will be there to fight him every step of the
way."

Ben Shelton, political director for Conservation Voters New Mexico, said more
oil and gas production will hurt the state by reducing prices. State government
relies heavily on taxes from oil and gas production.

"That just means that New Mexico's financial woes are going to continue,"
Shelton said. He also said the state may face rising health care costs related
to environmental pollution.

"San Juan's heavily Latino and Native community downwind of the methane hot spot
is already impacted by health issues," and these will worsen with less
environmental regulation, he said.

Congressman Steve Pearce, R-N.M., and Republican State Land Commissioner Aubrey
Dunn, who oversees oil and gas drilling on state land, opposed the
methane-capture regulations, saying they would be harmful to industry.

Coal country

In August 2015, the EPA launched the Clean Power Plan, a carbon-reduction
initiative for power plants, which contribute 31 percent of all greenhouse
gases, according to the agency. Under the plan, fossil fuel-burning plants must
institute pollution-capture measures for low- or zero-emission production.

Obama also halted all new coal mining leases on federal land in January.

Trump has pledged to roll back these actions, gaining supporters in struggling
coal communities nationwide.

Mitch Knapton, Peabody Energy's operations manager in Grants, who overseas a
staff of 200 at the El Segundo coal mine, said, "We are hopeful that Trump will
push coal more than the other administration."

He said that while the coal market has been cyclical throughout his 30 years in
the industry, increased regulations and the development of renewable energy
options have particularly hurt.

"A lot of the other people [in the state] don't really understand how their
electricity gets to them and how important coal is to that piece of the pie," he
said.

But coal mining faces larger challenges than regulation. The demand for coal has
plummeted internationally because of the low price of natural gas and the
increased interest in renewable or other energy options, including nuclear,
solar and wind power. A number of large coal producers have filed for bankruptcy
in the past year, even before the Obama administration's regulations took
effect.

Peabody sought to sell its two New Mexico mines this year, but when the deal
failed, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, leading to layoffs in the
state.

Jeremy Nichols, climate and energy director for WildEarth Guardians, said
encouraging more coal mining won't revive the industry. "They are mortally
wounded," he said. "The coal industry is dying regardless of any environmental
regulation and there is nothing getting in the way of their enterprise."

Nichols said it's unlikely Trump can revitalize coal, but increased mining could
have devastating implications for the environment if pollution regulations are
relaxed.

"If he does what he says, it will be an unimaginable catastrophe for the entire
American West," Nichols said. "We are going to have to meet him head on and do
everything possible to rally New Mexico."

Nichols said he also worries about how the Trump administration will affect
efforts to close the Public Service Company of New Mexico's San Juan Generating
Station. The company has agreed to shutter two of its four coal-burning units,
replacing the energy with nuclear power, natural gas and some wind and solar.

Pahl Shipley, a spokesman for the company, said PNM worked with the EPA and the
state to meet existing requirements under the federal Clean Air Act and there
are no plans to change the agreement under a new administration. He said, "It
would put New Mexico in a good position to comply with the Clean Power Plan,
should it stand."

Renewable energy and climate change

Nichols and other environmentalists say the stakes of Trump's policies are
highest when it comes to global warming. While many are confident they can work
on the state level to maintain energy conservation policies, climate change
requires national collaboration, they say.

"We got the wind knocked out of us," Nichols said. "The time for action was
yesterday."

By causing record high temperatures, climate change in New Mexico is projected
to create grave water shortages and result in widespread wildfires. Scientists
at Los Alamos National Laboratory said in a 2013 study that the state could lose
the majority of its forests by 2050 as a result of climate change and drought.

Trump told Fox News in 2015, "We'll be fine with the environment. ... You can't
destroy businesses."

He said he will withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement, a
pledge by 193 countries and other signatories to reduce carbon emissions in the
coming decades. Trump appointed Myron Ebell, a vocal climate change denier, to
spearhead the transition work at the EPA.

New Mexico hasn't had a climate change task force at the state level since
Martinez took office in 2011. The city of Santa Fe launched a task force in
2014. Federal tax credits provide rebates for businesses and individuals who
invest in solar and wind energy, but Martinez vetoed an effort to extend the
state credit in 2015. The Martinez administration declined comment for this
story.

U.S. Sen. Martin Heinrich, D-N.M., said Trump will get rid of the federal credit
"over my dead body."

"Irrespective of the fact that Donald Trump is going to be in the White House,
those projects are going to move forward," he said.

Heinrich said, "The toothpaste is already out of the tube" for renewable energy
projects, and projects like wind farms are not only in demand, but create wealth
for communities.

"What he is really up against is not the Obama administration policy so much as
a changing set of economics," he added, saying Trump has made promises he won't
be able to keep.

Regina Wheeler, CEO of Positive Energy Solar, said the industry is hopeful Trump
will see the economic value of solar as a job creator and will support solar
policy. Solar sales have gone up since the election, she said.

Back in Farmington, there is concern about the environment, especially among
people who voted for Clinton. But others, like McDonald, who owns the apartment
complex, are putting their trust in Trump to create jobs and protect the water
and the air.

"I am sure he'll come up with a plan because he's a good businessman," she said,
"and that's what I have hope in him for."

Staci Matlock contributed to this report.

Contact Rebecca Moss at 505-986-3011 or rmoss@sfnewmexican.com

___ (c)2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) Visit The Santa Fe New
Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20161120-SF-Trump-s-policies-could-have-deep-impact-on-oil-rich-New-Mexico-1120-
20161120

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SF


                    Copyright 2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican


                             1290 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Democratic Party Chairwoman Haaland won't seek second term

BYLINE: Andrew Oxford, The Santa Fe New Mexican

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 581 words


Nov. 23--Debra Haaland announced Tuesday she will not seek a second term as New
Mexico Democratic Party chairwoman. Her decision comes after a string of
Democratic victories around the state during this month's election and a
bruising presidential primary earlier this year in which she was accused of
showing favoritism toward eventual nominee Hillary Clinton.

Haaland, 55, of Laguna Pueblo will continue to lead the organization through
April, when Democrats will elect a new state leader. One prospective successor
immediately declared his interest in the post.

The party's 24-year-old vice chairman, Juan Sanchez of Belen, said Tuesday night
he will seek to help unify the party and "bring back people that feel they've
been left out in the cold."

Democrats elected Haaland as chairwoman in April 2015, months after Republicans
won control of the New Mexico House of Representatives for the first time since
the 1950s and Gov. Susana Martinez cinched a second term along with Secretary of
State Dianna Duran. Haaland had been on the ballot herself, as an unsuccessful
lieutenant governor candidate.

The first American Indian to lead either of the state's major political parties,
Haaland pledged to help Democrats rebuild by bolstering the ranks of volunteers,
placing greater emphasis on voter registration efforts and paying off debts.

Haaland seems to have ticked off those boxes. "We achieved every goal we set out
to achieve," Haaland said in an email to members of the party's central
committee.

The party enjoyed a boon in voter registration this year, regained control of
the state House of Representatives, cinched the race for Secretary of State, and
gave an 8-point victory to Clinton in her ultimately unsuccessful race for the
White House. A spokeswoman says the party also paid off its debts.

But Haaland became a target as registered Democrats split during the
presidential primary.

Backers of U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., accused Haaland of undermining the
progressive politician's campaign for the presidential nomination. A group of
Sanders supporters last month called for her ouster, alleging that she canceled
a straw poll for presidential candidates at the Democrats' pre-primary
convention earlier this year because so many Sanders supporters showed up.

Many in the party nonetheless credit Haaland for her outreach effort, which took
her across the state.

"She was on the ground. She was there to help county chairs all across the
state. She showed up more than anyone has ever done," said Charlotte Roybal, a
member of the party's central committee from Santa Fe County. "It wasn't just
about raising money."

Sanchez, who announced his candidacy in a Facebook post Tuesday night, said the
biggest job for Haaland's successor will be engaging young, rural and Hispanic
voters such as himself.

"We did great as a state," Sanchez said of the general election results. "But
2018 is going to be even more important."

The governor's office, a U.S. Senate seat and party control in the state House
will all be on the line, he said.

Haaland said in her email to central committee members that she will "remain
active." Some party members said Tuesday they expect she will seek elected
office in 2018.

Contact Andrew Oxford at 505-986-3093 or aoxford@sfnewmexican.com Follow him on
Twitter @andrewboxford.

___ (c)2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) Visit The Santa Fe New
Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20161123-SF-Democratic-Party-Chairwoman-Haaland-won-t-seek-second-term-1123-2016
1123

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SF


                    Copyright 2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican


                             1291 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        The Pueblo Chieftain (Colorado)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Final election results are certified

BYLINE: Peter Strescino, The Pueblo Chieftain, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 830 words


Nov. 23--The final local results are certified, the numbers concrete, the races
and issues are settled for 2016.

Tuesday, Pueblo Clerk and Recorder Gilbert "Bo" Ortiz published the last words,
or numbers, on the tumultuous local, state and national elections in the form of
votes cast by Pueblo County residents.

In the nastiest presidential election in decades, if not since the Civil War,
supposedly blue-collar Democratic Puebloans voted for Republican Donald J. Trump
by a margin of 390 votes, 36,265 for the New York businessman and 35,875 for
Democratic former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Clinton did pick up the
state's nine electoral votes in her nationwide loss.

In the contentious culture war, or marijuana debates, Puebloans roundly defeated
an attempt to end the recreational cannabis industry here in three meaningful
votes.

On Ballot Question 200, which would have ended the 1,300-job industry, Puebloans
voted 45,728 (no) to 33,334 (yes) to get rid of the dispensaries and grows
within the county. That percentage of pro-marijuana votes was 57.8 percent of
those cast, a larger margin in the county as a whole than in 2012, when
Amendment 64 was voted in here and statewide.

On Ballot Question 300, which would have specifically ended Pueblo city
marijuana establishments that grew and used cannabis to make edibles, salves and
lotions, the final tally against this was 29,476 (no) to 18,724 (yes). More than
61 percent of voters said yes to the businesses.

Two other marijuana questions also were settled by city voters, whether to allow
recreational dispensaries within city limits and whether to tax those sales at
4.3 percent. On Ballot Question 2B, by a 999-vote margin, residents said the
shops could be established, 24,330-23,331. As far as the tax question went,
Ballot Question 2C, city vot-

ers went against the tax, 26,658 to 20,559.

On Ballot Issue 1C, a countywide question, 46,137 people voted to ask the
Legislature to limit home cannabis grows while 29,986 voted against it. In
Colorado City, Ballot Issue 5C asked whether to put an excise tax on the first
movement of marijuana. In that metro district 672 voters nixed the idea while
580 were for it.

In the race for Pueblo County commissioner from District 2, Democrat Garrison
Ortiz received 37,948 votes, Republican Brian Mater got 31,385 and independent
candidate Mark Carmel tallied 7,821 votes.

In Pueblo votes in the Colorado House District 47 race, incumbent Republican
Clarice Navarro got 13,895 votes and Democratic challenger Jason Munoz received
12,042 votes. Voters from Fremont and Otero counties also voted in this race.
She won districtwide 58-42 percent.

U.S. Sen. Michael Bennet, said before the election to be the most vulnerable
Democrat running for re-election, won in Pueblo, 40,47533,051 over El Paso
County Commissioner Darryl Glenn. Bennet also won statewide, 50-44 percent.

In the 3rd Congressional District, Pueblo again showed it is no longer reliably
Democratic in giving Republican incumbent Scott Tipton 41,311 votes to
challenger Gail Schwartz's 32,430 votes. Tipton was returned to Congress in the
geographically giant 3rd. He won districtwide 55-40 percent.

In two state education races, broken down into the 3rd Congressional District,
Puebloans did vote for Democrats who lost districtwide. Former District 60
school board member Christine Pacheco- Koveleski received 38,471 votes here to
Carbondale's Joyce Rankin's 37,605 votes in the state school board race. Rankin
won almost 59 percent of the vote districtwide.

In the race for CU Regent, at-large, Democrat Alice Madden won here, 39,476
votes to Republican Heidi Ganahl's 34,539. But Ganahl won statewide 5149
percent.

In statewide amendment and proposal questions, Pueblo went along with the state
in all races but one.

On Amendment 69, ColoradoCare, Puebloans overwhelmingly voted against the
medical plan 63,900-12,272.

On Amendment 70, a minimum wage increase to $12 by 2020, Puebloans voted 40,210
for it and 37,949 against.

On Amendment 71, to make it tougher to get items on the ballot to amend the
state constitution, 50,265 voted for it and 26,844 against.

On Amendment 72, a large increase in tobacco taxes, 50,775 locals voted against
and 27,768 voted for the increase.

Another controversial issue, Proposition 106, the right to end one's life if
deemed terminal, 45,025 Puebloans voted with the state tally and 33,137 voted
against the measure that is not part of the consti- tution.

On Prop 107, to hold presidential primaries in the spring of those election
years, 44,637 Puebloans voted for and 31,757 against.

On Prop 108, allowing unaffiliated voters to cast ballots in party primaries,
Puebloans went against the state vote, with 38,754 voting against the proposal
and 37,524 for it. The measure passed statewide 53-47

percent.

pstress@chieftain.com

___ (c)2016 The Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, Colo.) Visit The Pueblo Chieftain
(Pueblo, Colo.) at www.chieftain.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161123-PB-Final-election-results-are-certified-1123-20161123

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PB


                      Copyright 2016 The Pueblo Chieftain


                             1292 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bakersfield Californian

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Locals riff on avoiding post-election conflict on Thanksgiving

BYLINE: Steven Mayer, The Bakersfield Californian

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 499 words


Nov. 23--Could the outcome of this month's presidential election affect your
Thanksgiving holiday? Does your family talk about politics at the table? Do you
expect anti-Trump and pro-Trump forces to clash before the turkey is even
carved? Or is such talk simply avoided, by rule or common sense? We asked folks
on Facebook for their thoughts.

Bakersfield resident Janet Beckman describes her great-grandmother as a "super
democrat." But she said one of the grandsons is a "super Trump supporter" as are
others in the family.

"We all love each other and respect each other's differences of opinion,"
Beckman said. "Grateful that the kids have an interest about politics, God and
country! Happy Thanksgiving!"

But is it really that easy?

Longtime local television journalist Lisa Kimble Edmonston believes it can be
done. She asked friends to join her in "calling a truce from the post-election
vitriol in order to count our multitude of blessings this Thanksgiving week."

Christina Marie Pellettera, a local elementary school teacher, said her family
includes members from both sides of the aisle, including husbands and wives with
opposing views.

"I'm sure we'll talk about it momentarily, throw a few jokes around, and then
move on," she said on Facebook. "If we're going to be divided by anything, it's
going to be red wine vs. white wine, not politics."

Retired high school educator Marjorie Bell counseled avoidance: "We need to
avoid election talk right now," she said. "We have become painfully allergic to
election conversation!"

Bakersfield resident Brandon Hardin has a master plan. It's called getting outa
Dodge.

"San Luis Bay Inn here I come," he said. My only deep thoughts will be about, 1)
How do I want my filet from the Custom House cooked? and 2) What will be the
first cocktail I order from Mr. Ricks?"

Some fight the raw feelings or tendency to gloat with humor. Some with
sincerity. Here's a grab bag of responses:

Christopher Garcia: "My family is huge and about 95% voted for Clinton, so I'm
just hoping the Republicans I love don't get bashed too hard this Thursday."

Michael Albin Solko: "My cats and I have agreed to not talk about it. We'll be
having a 'Doctor Who' marathon instead. (Sorry, I know this is no help. My
family and I did an early Thanksgiving over the weekend.)"

LeonorLi Matthews Gibbs: "Will it be a peaceful meal? Mine will, if it kills me
(or me, them) ... Stay tuned ... let's hope no one calls BPD!"

Michael Mallinson: "Both sets of in-laws are Republican, but neither voted for
Trump, so relatively easy this time around."

Dianne Hardisty: "You mean like pass or throw the mash potatoes?"

Tim Stonelake: "Fortunately, my family and the friends joining us for
Thanksgiving are all on the same page."

Ashlee Alex: "I am projecting a full blown brawl... it may not be political
though!"

___ (c)2016 The Bakersfield Californian (Bakersfield, Calif.) Visit The
Bakersfield Californian (Bakersfield, Calif.) at www.bakersfield.com Distributed
by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20161123-BK-Locals-riff-on-avoiding-post-election-conflict-on-Thanksgiving-1123-
20161123

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BK


                   Copyright 2016 The Bakersfield Californian


                             1293 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

What will happen to N.M.'s schools under a Trump administration?

BYLINE: Robert Nott, The Santa Fe New Mexican

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 2282 words


Nov. 27--When Dwayne Norris, a 20-year veteran educator, arrived at school on
the morning after the election, he felt defeated.

Norris, 46, a fifth-grade teacher at Bandelier Elementary School in Albuquerque,
had harbored hopes for a Hillary Clinton win the presidential race. Like many
people, he was shocked by Republican Donald Trump's victory. Morale among his
peers at the school was at an all-time low before the election, Norris said, and
he thought there was no way it could get worse.

He was wrong.

"Teachers were very disillusioned, almost to the state of despair," he said.
"The student mood was somber. There is a lot of anxiety. We just do not know
what this system will look like under Trump."

Norris is not alone in feeling uncertain about how the nation's public education
system might change once President-elect Trump takes office Jan. 20 or how his
education policies will impact impoverished New Mexico. With the exception of
one speech two months ago in Ohio, in which he discussed a plan to initiate a
$130 billion-per-year school voucher program funded with both state and federal
dollars, Trump has said little about public education. His near silence on the
matter unsettles policy experts, New Mexico's congressional delegates and
teachers working in the trenches.

What will happen to our schools? Dwayne Norris, a 20-year veteran educator at
Bandelier Elementary School in Albuquerque, is one of many educators in the
state who are concerned about the possible effects of Donald Trump's presidency
on New Mexico's public schools. 'There is a lot of anxiety,' he says. 'We just
do not know what this system will look like under Trump.' Luis Sánchez
Saturno/The New Mexican

"Donald Trump gave very little attention to education on the campaign trail,"
said U.S. Sen. Martin Heinrich, a New Mexico Democrat. "This is deeply
troubling, given how important education is to the future of New Mexico's
children and our state's economy."

Last week, Trump announced his nominee for education secretary -- school voucher
and charter school activist Betsy DeVos, a Michigan philanthropist, politician
and businesswoman. The pick could be a sign that Trump is planning to pursue his
voucher plan, an initiative he says would increase education choices for
students by giving them public funds to help cover tuition costs at charter
schools, which are publicly funded but privately operated, and private schools.
About 100 charter schools are operating in New Mexico, some overseen by the
state and some chartered under public school districts.

Trump has said he plans to reallocate $20 billion in federal funding to set up
the voucher program, though he hasn't said where the money would come from. He
also has said he wants states to collectively ante up $110 billion to support
the program.

The proposed initiative has raised concerns in New Mexico, which recently
drained nearly all of its cash reserves filling budget shortfalls for the 2016
and 2017 fiscal years and is still wrangling with a deficit, largely due to a
decline in oil and gas revenues. State agencies have had their budgets cut and
are facing even lower spending levels in the coming year.

Officials from the state Public Education Department didn't comment on Trump's
proposed initiative. Spokesman Robert McEntyre responded to questions about
Trump with an email saying the agency is "going to continue building on our
reforms that deliver results."

But state Sen. John Arthur Smith, D-Deming, said it seems unlikely that the
state could pitch in much money to a school voucher program.

Smith, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said New Mexico would probably
have to raise taxes to cover its share of the initiative. "I guess this is
called a Trump tax."

Republican state Rep. Dennis Roch of Logan, chairman of the Legislative
Education Study Committee and a school superintendent, agreed with Smith. "There
are no extra dollars lying around to do new programs," he said.

About a dozen states offer school voucher programs to help defray private school
costs for some students -- including Indiana, where Vice President-elect Mike
Pence, as governor, dramatically expanded eligibility rules so more students
could participate. Most of the state programs limit vouchers to low-income
families or children with disabilities. The value of each voucher ranges from
$20,000 per year for a special-needs student in Ohio to just 50 percent of the
per-student state funding in Louisiana, according to the National Conference of
State Legislatures.

Many of the state vouchers are worth between $4,o00 and $5,000 a year, an amount
that would cover a small fraction of the tuition at most private secular schools
but would stretch further at parochial schools, where costs tend to be lower.

In comparison, Santa Fe Public Schools receives an average of $7,500 per student
from the state of New Mexico. Tuition costs at private schools in the city range
from about $9,600 per year at St. Michael's High School, a Catholic institution,
to more than $22,000 a year at Santa Fe Preparatory School.

In his Ohio speech in September, Trump said a voucher program "produces
competition that causes better outcomes for everyone."

But a study released in July on Ohio's voucher program, called the EdChoice
Scholarship Program, doesn't support his statement. Researchers analyzed the
test score data of some 20,000 students in the program over nearly a decade and
found that, on average, they fared worse than students who remained in
low-performing public schools. The study was commissioned by the Thomas B.
Fordham Institute, which backs school vouchers.

U.S. Rep. Ben Ray Luján, D-N.M., said Trump's voucher plan "would strip vital
funding from our most at-risk students and schools" in New Mexico.

U.S. Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., said such a program would "have grave
consequences."

Educators also are worried about the impact.

"Vouchers for private schools ... takes money out of the classroom, it takes
teachers out of the classroom, and that worries me," said Estrella Telles, a
math intervention specialist at Lynn Middle School in Las Cruces. "If any more
funding is taken from the state's public education, it's just going to continue
to get worse and worse in the classroom."

U.S. Rep. Steve Pearce, a New Mexico Republican and a Trump supporter, didn't
voice any concerns about a voucher program. Whether Trump plans to "promote a
greater choice in educational institutions or the advancement of STEM" --
science, technology, engineering and math programs -- "I am excited to work with
the Trump Administration to advance and strengthen the educational system in New
Mexico," Pearce said in an email.

While Trump has revealed few other details of his education policies, he has
repeatedly emphasized some broad bullet points on how he will address public
education -- what he once called the most failed system in government.

He supports teacher merit pay -- a sore spot with teachers unions.

He wants to eliminate Common Core Standards, a rigorous set of academic
standards that more than 40 states, including New Mexico, have adopted. DeVos
also has spoken against Common Core.

And on a broader scale, Trump has said he would like to dismantle the U.S.
Department of Education.

"I think the general consensus of the informed people tracking this is that
[Trump's education plan] is all chaos and confusion and lacking in direction,"
said William Mathis, managing director of the National Education Policy Center
at the University of Colorado in Boulder. "When it comes down to any kind of
solid policy proposal, it seems to be scattershot all over the place."

What will happen to our schools? First-graders wait in the lunch line at the
Nina Otero Community School in August 2014. Like most public schools in the
Santa Fe district, most of the kids at Nina Otero are enrolled in the federal
free and reduced-price lunch program for low-income families. Santa Fe Public
Schools Superintendent Veronica García and other educators are concerned that
federal Title I funding, which supports the lunch program and other services for
low-income students, could take a hit when Donald Trump takes office as
president. Luke E. Montavon/New Mexican file photo

Some national education analysts have wondered if Trump's administration will
dip into the $15 billion in federal Title I funding, money that helps support
schools with a high percentage of children from low-income families.

Such a move would have a devastating impact on New Mexico, which receives about
$125 million per year in Title 1 funds.

Santa Fe Public Schools Superintendent Veronica García said any cut in Title 1
funding will affect the district's 13,000 students. Over 70 percent of them
qualify for the federal government's free and reduced-price lunch program, which
is covered by Title I dollars.

"A drop in federal funding of any kind would have a huge negative impact on our
students," García said.

Trump's support for teacher merit pay -- an initiative that has already taken
root in many states, including New Mexico -- draws the ire of teachers unions.

What will happen to our schools? Veronica García, Santa Fe Public Schools
superintendent, held a news conference earlier this month to announce the
district's plans to address the concerns and fears of immigrant students
following Donald Trump's presidential election victory. Luis Sánchez Saturno/New
Mexican file photo

Betty Patterson, director of the state branch of the National Education
Association, said she takes issue with merit pay because she believes all
teachers deserve the income boost. "How do you pick out just one teacher to give
merit pay to in any situation?" she asked.

Merit pay also causes conflicts in schools, she said. "If you know one teacher
down the hall who teaches just the same way you do, and she got $1,000 and you
got $300, it causes problems."

Stephanie Ly, president of New Mexico's chapter of the American Federation of
Teachers, echoed that thought. She said such financial incentives, usually based
on teacher evaluations and heavily tied to student test scores, "bring down
morale between educators and students."

Trump probably won't have much luck killing Common Core. Each state, not the
federal government, decides whether to adopt such academic standards.

"I'm not a big fan of Common Core -- mostly in terms of how it is implemented --
but I don't think there is any leverage in ending that on the federal level,"
said New Mexico Sen. William Soules, a Las Cruces Democrat and a retired
educator.

Still, Soules said, Trump "could use his bully pulpit to encourage states to get
rid of it."

Trump has hinted that he would like to get rid of the federal Department of
Education -- an idea floated by a number of presidents in the past, including
Ronald Reagan. Former President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat, established the
department in 1979 over the objections of Republicans, who said the nation's
Founding Fathers never envisioned such an agency.

But education policy experts say eliminating the department would be difficult.

"I don't see, after all the talk is done and he is in office, that department
disappearing," Mathis said. "Do I see rifts and reductions? Yes. That's
completely within the realm of possibility."

Roch, however, said he could see Trump trying to dismantle or downsize the
federal agency as a way to cut government waste.

"If you are looking across the federal agencies, and if your goal is to reduce
the size of the federal government and therefore reduce deficit spending that in
turn contributes to an increased national debt, the Department of Education is
one that could be an option," Roch said.

Trump will step into office as the federal government prepares to launch its new
Every Student Succeeds Act, a law that gives states more autonomy over public
education than its predecessor, No Child Left Behind. Because Trump has said he
wants state governments and local districts to have more control over their
education systems -- and the law was passed by Congress with bipartisan support
-- few people think the new president will tinker with it.

Udall predicted that Trump would meet "fierce opposition from Democrats and
Republicans alike" if he tried to meddle with the law.

Some teachers fear repercussions in public education as a result of Trump's
stance on illegal immigration. The president-elect campaigned on a vow to build
a wall along the border with Mexico and has threatened to increase deportations
of undocumented immigrants. He has since walked back the border wall plan, but
he already has spoken of ending the federal Deferred Action for Childhood
Arrivals program, which allows young immigrants temporary protection from
deportation.

This has set off a wave of fear and uncertainty among immigrant students in New
Mexico. School leaders, including García, have launched efforts to reassure them
that they will be protected within the school system.

"I have a lot of students who are scared, fearful that their parents may be
deported," Telles said. "These kids bring their worries to school. We have to
care for them. ... They can't learn if they are worried about their safety or
their parents' safety."

But all the guessing and worrying is largely in vain until Trump takes office
and develops more specific education proposals. Even then, little may change,
even in New Mexico.

Norris, the Albuquerque teacher, can only shake his head and hope for the best.

"Maybe," he said, "Trump changes nothing."

Contact Robert Nott at 505-986-3021 or rnott@sfnewmexican.com

___ (c)2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) Visit The Santa Fe New
Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20161127-SF-What-will-happen-to-N-M-s-schools-under-a-Trump-administration-1127-
20161127

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SF


                    Copyright 2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican


                             1294 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

EDITORIAL: Watch out when Trump tweets

BYLINE: The Santa Fe New Mexican

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 565 words


Nov. 29--It is hardly surprising that a candidate whose path to the presidency
broke all the rules is running a transition that is upending common sense.

Even the biggest Donald Trump supporters have to be taken aback to learn that
the man they chose to be president is too busy to take in intelligence
briefings. Meanwhile, Trump does have time to take to Twitter. Earlier this
month, he fired off tweets about Hamilton, the Broadway musical, and about his
portrayal on Saturday Night Live (not funny, Trump says!).

Over the weekend, his Twitter activity escalated to a series of unfounded tweets
about voter fraud -- this, from the man who actually won the election, if not
the popular vote.

One theory is that Trump takes over Twitter to hide real news. For example, when
he began complaining about the cast of Hamilton asking Vice President-elect Mike
Pence to honor diversity, Trump had just settled a lawsuit in connection with
his so-called university. By turning over $25 million to plaintiffs, Trump said
he was avoiding distraction. The news about his Hamilton tweets ("Our wonderful
future V.P. Mike Pence was harassed last night at the theater by the cast of
Hamilton, cameras blazing. This should not happen!") overshadowed the reality
that the future president was settling a fraud trial, giving money to people who
basically accused him of cheating them.

The election tweets came Sunday just as Green Party candidate Jill Stein was
putting in motion recounts in states that Trump carried by a narrow margin. She
successfully petitioned for a recount in Wisconsin and says she will seek them
in Michigan and Pennsylvania.

The Clinton campaign doesn't expect the outcome to change but plans to be on
hand to protect their candidate's interest. Trump appeared furious and took to
Twitter to vent, saying, "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a
landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted
illegally."

Both those statements are untrue. Trump did not win in an Electoral College
landslide. Even after adding Michigan, the last state to be called, Trump had
306 electoral votes, well over the 270 needed to clinch the presidency but short
of President Barack Obama's margins of 332 in 2012 and 365 in 2008. The flat-out
whopper, though, is the unfounded claim that millions of people voted illegally.
That's not true, and Trump knows it. Yet once again, he came forth with charges
that are then repeated, shoving real news off the front pages.

Pay attention, then, not to the Twitter storm but to the serious business. There
are unanswered questions about the election and the role played by Russian
hackers, if any. Much of the noise about phantom voter fraud misses the point.
Did a foreign government influence the American election? Is anyone in power
trying to find the answer to that question? Are there discrepancies in state
vote totals that do suggest fraud? Computer experts say the results do not add
up. Recounts and audits will help find some answers, at least to questions about
voting.

Meanwhile, the transition continues, with the guy who won calling into question
the results -- and that's just about a perfect ending for this outrageous
election year.

___ (c)2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) Visit The Santa Fe New
Mexican (Santa Fe, N.M.) at www.santafenewmexican.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161129-SF-EDITORIAL-Watch-out-when-Trump-tweets-1129-20161129

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SF


                    Copyright 2016 The Santa Fe New Mexican


                             1295 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                        The Pueblo Chieftain (Colorado)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Dem women largest bloc in state

BYLINE: Peter Strescino, The Pueblo Chieftain, Colo.

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


Nov. 30--Almost 560,000 registered Democratic women made up the state's single
largest voting bloc by gender, according to an abstract of the election released
by the Colorado Secretary of State's Office.

The results were similar in Pueblo County, where 20,671 female registered
Democrats made up the largest bloc by gender and party affiliation.

In the state, won by Democrat Hillary Clinton in her loss to Republican Donald
Trump for the U.S. presidency, Republicans, with 963,059 ballots cast, led the
major party tabulation, according to the abstract.

The abstract included Democrats, Republicans, unaffiliated voters, the
Libertarian Party, the American Constitutional Party, the Green Party and the
Unity Party. The list was broken down by gender, and included "unknown," people
who did not reveal their gender when registering to vote.

In Pueblo County, 15,042 registered Democratic males cast ballots, and 267
Democrats listed unknown.

The county's growing Republican Party cast 22,859 votes against the still-strong
Democrats' total of 35,980. GOP-registered women cast 11,314 votes and men cast
11,389 votes. In the unknown

category, 156 Republicans voted.

The third-largest bloc, unaffiliated voters, cast 21,674 votes. Unaffiliated
women cast 10,758 votes and men weighed in with 10,535. Of the unknowns, 381
unaffiliated voters used the franchise.

In all, 81,642 people voted in the election in Pueblo.

Smaller parties, such as the Libertarian Party cast 637 votes, 267 women, 354
men and 16 unknown. The American Constitutional Party members cast 283 votes,
101 women, 176 men and six unknown.

Green Party members numbered 198 votes, 93 women, 102 men and three unknown. The
Unity Party vote was light here, five women, five men and one unknown.

In all, 81,642 people voted in the election in Pueblo.

Colorado State University- Pueblo history and political science professor Gayle
Berardi said the numbers indicated that "Women faithfully vote at higher rates
because it is one way to use their power with little opposition.

In other words, as an example, women face obstacles in the workplace that may be
difficult to overcome.

Those kinds of obstacles do not exist in voting."

But she said that even though it was not indicated in the abstract "The youth
vote was down this year compared especially to 2008 when the younger population
was energized by the (Barack) Obama campaign. This happened again this year
particularly with Bernie Sanders supporters.

"When he didn't win the Democratic nomination, many youth decided not to vote or
vote for a third party candidate.

"It appears that Colorado and Pueblo trended in the same direction as the nation
in regard to age and gender turnout."

pstress@chieftain.com

___ (c)2016 The Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, Colo.) Visit The Pueblo Chieftain
(Pueblo, Colo.) at www.chieftain.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161130-PB-Dem-women-largest-bloc-in-state-1130-20161130

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PB


                      Copyright 2016 The Pueblo Chieftain


                             1296 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           Springfield News-Sun, Ohio

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Ohio set record for early voting in November election

BYLINE: Anthony Shoemaker, Springfield News-Sun, Ohio

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 337 words


Dec. 02--More than 71 percent of registered Ohioans voted in the Nov. 8 election
and the state set a new high for the number of early voters.

But while turnout was among the highest in recent elections, it was far from the
record 77 percent voter turnout in 1992, when Bill Clinton won Ohio and the
presidency against then-President George H.W. Bush and independent candidate
Ross Perot.

Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted Thursday certified the official results of
the 2016 General Election.

Here are some of the highlights:

5,607,641 Ohioans cast ballots out of 7,861,025 registered voters, for a voter
turnout of 71.33 percent;

President-Elect Donald Trump carried 80 of Ohio's 88 counties -- including
Montgomery, Clark, Butler, Greene, Miami, Warren, Preble, Darke, Shelby and
Champaign counties;

1,890,069 absentee ballots were cast, topping the 2012 total of 1,876,174 and
the 2008 figure of 1,717,256. About 34 percent of all ballots cast came before
Election Day.

Democrats historically have done better in early voting, but that may not be the
case this year. Of the counted absentee ballots, 56.8 percent were cast in
counties won by Trump and just 43.2 percent in the counties won by Clinton.

154,965 provisional ballots were cast, down from the 208,084 that had
provisional ballots in 2012. The provisional ballots broke roughly evenly
between President-elect Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, with Trump receiving
50.3 percent and Hillary Clinton 49.6 percent.

"As we close the books on another election, one thing that is abundantly clear
is that Ohio is a national leader in elections administration as our state once
again has delivered a well-run election," Husted said in a statement. "Despite
the unwarranted predictions of a troubled election, it is clear that voters had
a great experience and the 2016 presidential election in Ohio was free of any
major problems."

___ (c)2016 Springfield News-Sun, Ohio Visit Springfield News-Sun, Ohio at
www.springfieldnewssun.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20161202-1SP-Ohio-set-record-for-early-voting-in-November-election-1202-20161202

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1SP


                   Copyright 2016 Springfield News-Sun, Ohio


                             1297 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                             El Paso Times (Texas)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Voter law violates rights, says DOJ

BYLINE: By, John C Moritz

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 664 words


AUSTIN - Election Day has come and gone but the court battle over Texas'
controversial voter-identification law rages on.

In documents filed in federal court late last week, the U.S. Justice Department
argued that not only does the 2011 law violate the voting rights of minority
Texans, but that the elected leaders who pushed the measure known as Senate Bill
14 through the Legislature intended to disenfranchise those voters.

"This discriminatory impact was not merely an unintended consequence of SB 14,"
the Justice Department said in its filing. "It was, in part, SB 14's purpose.
Compelling evidence establishes that Texas enacted SB 14 at least in part
because of its detrimental effects on African-American and Hispanic voters."

In a rebuttal document, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton's office flatly
rejected the assertion, saying the Republican-dominated Legislature passed the
bill because of public concern over voter fraud that had lingered since the
disputed presidential election of 2000.

"The baseless narrative promoted by Plaintiffs ignores not only the legislative
record but also the historical context of S.B. 14, which begins with the 2000
election - a watershed moment when many citizens questioned the confidence they
had in American electoral systems, in light of that year's hotly contested
presidential election" the attorney general's brief states. "In the aftermath, a
consensus developed that numerous changes needed to be made, including changes
to address potential voter fraud."

U.S. District Judge Gonzales of Corpus Christi ruled in 2014 that the Texas law
violates the Voting Rights Act by having an "impermissible effect" on minority
voters and places an unconstitutional burden on the right to vote.

This summer, the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed that the law endangers
the voting rights of blacks and Hispanics and instructed the trial court to fix
it.

During the recently concluded election cycle, the court ordered the state make
allowances for Texans who could not reasonably obtain an approved form of voter
ID and it ordered a public education campaign to inform voters of how the law
works.

Paxton office has appealed the case to the U.S. Supreme Court, which since the
death of Justice Antonin Scalia is seen as evenly split between conservative and
liberal factions. President-elect Donald Trump is expected to fill the high
court's one vacancy after he take office in January.

In the latest chapter of the Texas voter ID battle, which began in earnest
during the 2005 legislative session, the Justice Department said Republican
leaders, including then-Gov. Rick Perry and then-Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst pushed
for voter ID because state's fast-growing minority populations overwhelmingly
support Democrats at the ballot box.

While outnumbered Democratic lawmakers were able to derail voter ID bills from
2005 through 2009, the Justice Department said, Republicans employed
extraordinary methods, including changing legislative rules, to win passage when
their party won super-majorities after the 2010 elections.

Abbott's brief said the assertion has doesn't hold up. During the trial, the
plaintiffs could not establish that any of Senate Bill 14's backers intended to
impede the voting rights of minorities, his brief said.

"They have no evidence that any legislator acted with a racially discriminatory
purpose, let alone that S.B. 14's proponents engaged in a silent conspiracy to
discriminate against minority voters," the court document states. "On the
contrary, the record confirms that the Texas Legislature acted to combat voter
fraud and safeguard voter confidence.

"Texas's efforts at mitigating the burden of S.B. 14 on eligible voters can be
seen in the fact that plaintiffs found no evidence of a single identifiable
voter whom S.B. 14 will prevent from voting."

John C. Moritz covers Texas government and politics for the USA Today Network in
Austin. Contact him at John.Moritz@caller.com and follow him on Twitter
@JohnnieMo.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: elp


                          Copyright 2016 El Paso Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1298 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Arizona Capitol Times

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Nicholas Sarwark: A Libertarian born and bred in Arizona

BYLINE: Jeremy Duda

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1000  words




Most Arizonans probably don't know that their state is home to the chairman of a
national political party.

Since 2014, Nicholas Sarwark has chaired the Libertarian National Committee. An
Arizona native, Sarwark returned home to Arizona several years ago after living
in Colorado and Maryland, and planned to follow in his father's footsteps by
preparing to take over the family auto dealership.

Sarwark, 37, also followed in his father's footsteps in another way, taking up
his libertarian ideals as a young man. Since then, he's run the Libertarian
Party in Maryland and helped run it in Colorado. Now, he chairs the Libertarian
Party at the national level. And with the presidential election and Libertarian
nominee Gary Johnson out of the spotlight, he becomes his party's national face.

How does a 37-year-old become the national chairman of a political party?

I've been involved in the Libertarian Party my entire adult life, since probably
'98, '99, when I got out of college. And I had been exposed to it going back to
when I was like 12 years old going to Maricopa County Libertarian meetings with
my dad. So I've never been anything other than a Libertarian. It was actually a
longer trip through the ranks than it may seem from my age. I was chairman of
the Libertarian Party of Maryland back when I lived there, and then vice
chairman of the Libertarian Party of Colorado, and served on the national
judicial committee, which is part of our internal appellate body, if you will,
and some bylaws committees and things like that. So I've been around it for a
long time. And mostly I just saw the party not going in the direction I wanted
it to go back in 2014. And that coincided with some career choices that I could
make that would make it a possibility to have that kind of profile. And I ran a
campaign.

What was the direction of the party that you didn't like?

We weren't moving as fast as we should with the rise of libertarianism in the
broader American populace. So we were getting all sorts of popularity for things
like marijuana legalization and marriage equality and things that the
Libertarian Party had had as part of the platform since the early '70s. But the
Libertarian Party's membership growth and voter registration growth were anemic
in comparison or almost stagnant. And I felt like we needed to go out and put a
stronger face on libertarianism, and one that appealed more to a vast swath of
Americans that are disaffected from politics generally and a new, younger
generation that have not made their political decision yet. The other thing is I
had training as an attorney. I was a deputy public defender in Colorado for five
years. Public speaking is one of those things that I'm comfortable with, and we
did not previously have a chairman who did a lot of media interviews, who went
out and spoke on TV or gave speeches and things like that. So we needed someone
to be the higher-profile face of the party during that time when we're not in an
election cycle. Yeah, for the last five months, everyone wants to talk to Gary
Johnson and not me. And that's fine. But for the next 19 months, somebody has to
be the one who answers the call for interviews or things like that and is able
to present an articulate and clear vision to the American people.

Some people are late converts to libertarianism, but for you it was in your
family?

Yes, I'm one of the second-generation Libertarians, of which there are many
more, and hopefully my three kids will also be. So they'll be third generation.
And it does give me a different perspective.

You're a native Arizonan who lived out of state for a while. What brought you
back to Arizona?

My family owns Consolidated Auto Sales at 16th Street and Van Buren, which is
the oldest independent car dealership in Phoenix. It's been there since 1942,
when my grandfather founded it. I had done a lot of things. I hadn't wanted to
just go into the family business because I could. So I was a computer consultant
for a long time in D.C. And then I went to law school. I was a deputy public
defender in Colorado for five years. And my father someday wants to actually
retire rather than be there two weeks before he passes away, like my grandfather
was. And it came time to discuss whether or not we wanted to let the business
shut down or if I wanted to come and be part of it. I had done other things, so
I knew what I was missing. And I felt like it was time to be that third
generation and keep that business going. It's been kind of a pillar of the
community. We employ, I think it's 11 or 12 people. They have good jobs that can
feed their families. We've helped families get cars for decades.

Gary Johnson got a little under 4 percent of the vote in Arizona, but increased
his 2012 showing pretty dramatically. Is that more a result of Libertarian
momentum or of the unpopularity of Clinton and Trump?

It's a little bit of both. The unpopularity of the old party candidates was huge
this year. But if you look at trend lines, especially nationally, you have a
president-elect who received less votes than either Mitt Romney or John McCain,
both of whom lost badly. You have a runner-up who got 6 million less votes than
President Obama got in 2012 nationally, almost 7 million less votes. And then
you have the Libertarian candidate tripling our vote total and getting 4 million
votes. It's all about long-term trend lines.

Obviously you were all in for Johnson, but did you have a preference between
Clinton and Trump?

Not really. ... I had plans and still have plans for how to deal with either
likely election outcome, as far as what issues the Libertarian Party will be
stressing going forward. With this one, we have to wait and see what he actually
does, because if there's one constant with Donald Trump, it's that you don't
count on what he says. You wait and see what he actually delivers.

http://www.azcapitoltimes.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

Copyright © 2016 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1299 of 1299 DOCUMENTS


                           The Arizona Capitol Times

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Landmark Clean Power policy likely doomed in Trump presidency

BYLINE: Rachel Leingang

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1354  words


There wasn't much talk of energy policy by either presidential candidate on the
campaign trail or during debates.

But so far, President-elect Donald Trump has vowed to get rid of President
Barack Obama's landmark environmental policy, the Clean Power Plan, which calls
on states to reduce carbon emissions nationwide by 32 percent by 2030. In
Arizona, the plan calls for a 34 percent reduction in emissions.

Arizona Republicans were no fans of the Clean Power Plan, which was finalized
last year. Attorney General Mark Brnovich and the Arizona Corporation Commission
joined a lawsuit along with 23 other states to challenge the rule and the
Environmental Protection Agency's authority to make it. The U.S. Supreme Court
stayed implementation of the plan earlier this year, pending any court outcomes.

Republican leaders see promise in Trump's inclination to get rid of the Clean
Power Plan - uncertainty is likely in the coming months as his policy positions
on energy in general continue to become clear.

But environmental groups warn it won't be easy to dismantle the plan, and
they're holding out hope for policies that will support clean and renewable
energy.

In Trump's 100-day plan, he said he wants to lift restrictions on energy
production for shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal. He also said he plans to
"lift the Obama-Clinton roadblocks and allow vital energy infrastructure
projects, like the Keystone Pipeline, to move forward" and cancel payments for
United Nations climate change programs. He also called for a piece of
legislation dubbed the "American Energy & Infrastructure Act," which would
create public-private partnerships and tax incentives in hopes of spurring
investment in infrastructure.

Brnovich said in a statement that his office, which created a federalism unit
when he took office in 2015, is still committed to "stopping federal overreach
under the guise of environmental protection. "

"We are hopeful the Trump administration remains committed to their pledge to
roll back Obama's unlawful environmental policies," Brnovich said.

Doug Little, the chairman of the Corporation Commission, said he sees little
chance for the Clean Power Plan to remain after Trump takes office, and he sees
a more amicable relationship between the state and the EPA on regulations.

The plan is being reviewed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit, and Little said it's likely the plan could end up before the
U.S. Supreme Court. Since Trump will have an appointment to the court
immediately upon taking office, and that person is likely be very conservative,
Little said he suspects the plan would be ruled unconstitutional, at least in
part, by the high court.

Another possibility, though more remote according to Little, would be
legislative action that would take authority away from the EPA. And yet another
option could be Trump appointing an EPA administrator who "takes the teeth out
of" the plan, Little said.

"Generally speaking, you're going to see the Clean Power Plan is going to have a
real tough time in the year going forward," Little said.

Getting rid of the CPP will allow utilities here to lessen the economic impact
on ratepayers by allowing coal plants that would have been decommissioned before
the end of their useful life to stay online, not stranding any of those assets
early, Little said.

"The economic impact on Arizona is going to be significantly lessened. We will
be able to do things in a normal timetable as opposed to an accelerated
timetable," he said.

Too early to speculate

Arizona Public Service, the state's largest electric utility, said "it is too
early to speculate" what Trump's administration could mean for the Clean Power
Plan or energy/environmental regulation.

Paul Walker, executive director of ConservAmerica, a conservative environmental
group, said he also thinks the Clean Power Plan will be gone under Trump, and
there will be a "massive level of support" for pipelines like Keystone and the
Dakota Access Pipeline. But Walker said there still will likely be some federal
regulation of carbon dioxide.

"There's going to have to be some sort of federal approach to CO2. You're going
to have to have some measure that's in place to address CO2. It's not going to
be the Clean Power Plan, for sure," he said.

He also senses a lack of support for direct subsidies for any one type of
energy, like the solar investment tax credit, from the Trump administration,
perhaps instead focusing on long-term tax policies that could incentivize clean
energy usage.

"They just are really troubled with the way subsidies work, and they don't like
the political aspect of how companies wind up lobbying for and litigating for
subsidies," Walker said.

ConservAmerica believes climate change is happening and is affected by humans.
While Walker acknowledged Trump "explicitly does not believe the science" on
climate change, Trump has repeatedly said he wants to have clean air and water,
so he hopes Trump will support policies that encourage energy generation that
doesn't have any emissions, carbon or otherwise.

An evolving position

Trump's position on climate change has evolved over the years. In 2012, he
tweeted that "the concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese
in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive. " But in an interview with
The New York Times on November 22, Trump said he has an "open mind" on climate
change and how to address it. He also said in the interview he believed there
was "some connectivity" between humans' actions and climate change, but "it
depends on how much" and what the cost will be to companies.

Scientific consensus says that human-caused climate change is an observed fact.
According to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 97 percent of
climate scientists agreed that warming trends over the past 100 years were
"extremely likely due to human activities. " Additionally, NASA expects 2016
will be the hottest year on record, after the first six months of the year broke
temperature records.

Sandy Bahr, director of the Sierra Club Grand Canyon chapter, said Trump's ideas
on energy and environmental policy are not so simple, and it's tough to discern
what he will actually do because, like on many topics, he's "said a lot of
things" that may not actually happen.

"Immediately, as far as an outright repeal (of the Clean Power Plan), I would be
surprised if we saw that happen," Bahr said.

The president is part of a system of checks and balances, and the plan went
through a proper rulemaking process, she said. Plus, she added, environmental
protection was hardly discussing during the presidential campaign, so Trump
shouldn't see his election as "some kind of mandate on climate change. "

'A lot to lose'

The Arizona Department of Environmental Quality, the agency tasked with putting
together a state implementation plan for the Clean Power Plan and various other
federal environmental rules, cancelled a stakeholder meeting for the CPP that
was set for December. But there's still a technical working group scheduled in
the coming months for the plan, spokesman Caroline Oppleman said. On its
website, ADEQ says it has decided to "slow, but not stop" work on a state
implementation plan.

To stay on target if the stay on the CPP is lifted, "our path forward is focused
on closing out key work in progress, while concurrently mapping out a plan to
complete necessary outstanding work," Oppleman said.

While the Clean Power Plan's future is uncertain, Bahr said she doesn't expect
to see a lot of movement in Arizona to put together a state implementation plan.

"We really shouldn't be waiting," Bahr said. "We shouldn't be wasting time. We
should be doing everything we can to reduce emissions and address climate
change. A place like Arizona has a lot to lose. We are experiencing climate
change now -- we know what drought looks like, we know what the implications
are, we're seeing it already. ... We should be stepping up to do our part. "

http://www.azcapitoltimes.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

Copyright © 2016 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved
