
                             501 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Your Views Friday, Nov. 25

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 636 words


No time to wasteFollowing the failure of State Question 779, it is up to the
governor and state legislators to do something about the direction our state is
heading. Our children are being put at risk, as is everyone who is impacted by
businesses choosing not to come here or choosing to move out. If we don't do
something soon, it's going to be a long, arduous task to dig ourselves out of
this hole. We have to quit listening to all those who don't want to give up
their traditions of their small schools or who say, "I went to a small school
and I want my child to have the same experience."

The world, and our state, has changed and we must change with it. There are too
many school districts in Oklahoma and too many administrators/superintendents.We
have too much to lose by doing nothing. We need to focus on the real issue of
education. We have entrusted our beautiful state to lawmakers; they must act on
this very important issue now. Our children can't be put on hold.Elvira Aldaz,
Midwest CityWe need to hopeI am one of those approximately 16,000 Oklahomans who
didn't cast a vote for president on my election ballot. I'm an old,
long-registered Democrat, and yet a pretty conservative one. I just could not in
good conscious vote for someone I didn't respect or care for. I thought Donald
Trump and Hillary Clinton were extremely flawed. Their histories, negativity and
rhetoric were shameful. And yet Trump's recent demeanor gives me a tad bit of
hope that he can do something positive or constructive and America will be
better as time goes on. It certainly all remains to be seen.The country still
has a great divide. I will try and be supportive and pray that things will work
out for our country. Even after seeing that we had the worst choices ever for a
leader, you need to hope America will persevere, and hope that most in
Washington can come together somewhat and move the country forward with some
gains and sense of satisfaction for all.Jack Dill, BlanchardThe '60s were
betterIn response to J.A. Livingston (Your Views, Nov. 19): I was alive and a
college student in 1963. Believe me, it was a much better time than now. Most
folks had morals back then and you didn't constantly hear verbal sewage spewing
from so many so-called educated peoples' mouths!Don Walkup, Oklahoma CityWhat
about dads' rights?I'm going to go out on a limb and guess Margaret Taylor's
(Your Views, Nov. 19) candidate for president didn't win and therefore she felt
obligated to express her concern for the rest of us and at the same time slip in
the fact she thinks men should stay out of the abortion issue. Taylor and others
feel fathers have no love for their children and so this decision should be the
mother's only. I would like for someone to explain how one justifies a mother
being able to make a decision to terminate a pregnancy without consulting the
father, but yet if the mother wants to keep the child and the father doesn't he
is automatically obligated to pay child support for 18 years. I can assure
Taylor and her supporters there is no way they could love their children any
more than I do mine. I'm not going to try and change anyone's mind on the
subject of abortion, but I would appreciate some consideration getting fathers
brought into the decision process.Donald D. Meyer, YukonGive him a chanceSince
the Nov. 8 election, I have read and listened to the pros and cons about the
Electoral College. I'm wondering, if Hillary Clinton had won the presidency over
Donald Trump with Electoral College votes, but not the popular vote, would those
unhappy with this year's outcome be praising the Electoral College as a good way
to elect a president? Give the president-elect a chance to show us how serious
and how good he will be to the country after being sworn in on Jan. 20.David
Nong, Edmond

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             502 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Trump ought to focus more on his job, less on tweeting

BYLINE: The Oklahoman Editorial

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 497 words


IT seems President-elect Donald Trump can't get enough of Twitter, which is
unfortunate for him. He needs to give his phone a rest.Trump used 140-character
blasts throughout his campaign to criticize others in the Republican primary
field, and later to regularly bounce Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. He also
used Twitter to take shots at people who weren't running for office, such as the
parents of a fallen U.S. Army captain of Muslim descent, a judge who was
involved in a Trump-related lawsuit, and - in a series of tweets famously sent
in the middle of the night - a former Miss Universe who had been cited by
Clinton during a debate.Trump is at it again, this time taking to the
Twitterverse on Sunday to criticize potential election recounts in three states
that are being sought by - and will be paid for by - independent presidential
candidate Jill Stein.It would have been one thing for Trump to simply criticize
Stein's effort, which is highly unlikely to change anything about the election.

Instead, he tweeted: "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a
landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted
illegally."The first part of that statement is a stretch, to put it mildly. As
John J. Pitney, professor of politics at Claremont McKenna College, noted,
Trump's 56.97 percent of the Electoral College votes puts his haul 46th out of
the 58 elections since George Washington's time.The back half of Trump's Tweet
is especially troubling, however. To claim, without a shred of evidence to back
it up, that millions of people cast ballots illegally is irresponsible. It's
certainly not what you would expect to hear from the person who won the
election.Trump's communications director, when asked for evidence of Trump's
claims, cited a 2014 Washington Post study on noncitizen voting and a 2012 study
by Pew Research on subpar voter registration files. As Nate Cohn of The New York
Times' Upshot blog noted, "Both were conducted well in advance of the election,
and neither supports anything like what Mr. Trump has suggested."Trump asserted
in another tweet Sunday: "Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and
California - so why isn't the media reporting on this? Serious bias - big
problem!"Perhaps the media isn't reporting on it because widespread problems
have not been substantiated. Election board officials in all three states have
flatly rejected Trump's claims. California's secretary of state called the
allegations "absurd" and said they were "inappropriate and unbecoming of a
president-elect."He's right. Recall that Trump basically stayed off Twitter in
the final weeks of the campaign. We believe that helped him close the gap and
eventually overtake Clinton. Whichever member of his team guided that decision
needs to get Trump's ear again. The president-elect of the United States should
have more important, and more responsible, things to do with his time than to
second-guess an election he won.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


                             503 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

DISSATISFACTION SHOWS IN VOTE NUMBERS

BYLINE: Jim Camden

SECTION: B; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 918 words


SPIN CONTROL

In the years to come, volumes will be written about the disaffected voters of
2016, complete with long interviews plus charts and graphs to show how unhappy
some of them were with their choices for president this year.

You could wait for the doctoral dissertations for proof, or you could look no
further than the numbers being tallied in the Spokane County elections office.
This is not to say that Spokane results are indicative of anything but Spokane
County, but they do point to a shift in the electorate over the  past three
presidential elections.

Considering the presidential race is almost always the biggest draw in a year
divisible by four, it is at least interesting and probably very telling that
almost three times as many Spokane voters refused to mark their ballot for
anyone for president compared to 2008, and about twice as many as 2012.

The number of voters choosing anyone but Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton was
also sharply up from the two previous elections. There were also three times as
many votes for third-party candidates and almost four times as many write-ins.
Let's break down the numbers.

First, it's important to remember that the county as a whole votes Republican in
presidential elections, although the city of Spokane trends Democratic. That
hasn't changed for decades.

But in 2008, in the race between Barack Obama and John McCain, it almost did.

Obama was ahead on election night; when all the votes were in and counted some
two weeks later, McCain was up slightly more than a percentage point, 48.8
percent to 47.6 percent.

If you just said, "Wait a minute. That doesn't add up to 100 percent!" give
yourself a gold star. The totals for the two major candidates in the
presidential race never add up to 100 percent. Some voters cast their ballots
for third-party candidates, some write in a name of someone they like better or
don't vote for anyone. These numbers shifted in 2016.

Eight years ago, slightly more than 3.6 percent of Spokane County voters opted
out of the McCain-Obama race. About 5,400 picked third-party candidates, about
1,500 wrote in someone else and 942 left the race blank, which is called an
undervote. Another 177 either got sloppy, had a change of heart or couldn't make
up their minds and filled in two or more ovals, called an overvote, so no one
got credit for them.

Four years later, Obama got 45.3 percent in Spokane County compared to Mitt
Romney's 51 percent, so the chunk of folks who voted in the other categories
went up a smidge, with the biggest percentage bump in that gap showing up as
undervotes; 1,318 voters left that one blank.

All the votes haven't been counted yet for 2016, but already we know that Trump
was a bit less popular overall, and Clinton significantly less so, compared to
major party candidates of the last two campaigns. Trump is currently at 48.1
percent and Clinton at 40 percent. That leaves a gap of about 12 percent

Another way to look at it: In the previous two presidential elections, although
Spokane County went Republican for president Obama got more votes in the county
than the Democrats running for governor. In 2012, Romney got more votes than the
Republican running for U.S. Senate, and George W. Bush did better than the GOP
Senate candidate in 2004. (There was no Senate race in Washington in 2008.)

This year, both candidates have significantly fewer votes from Spokane County
than the gubernatorial or Senate candidates from their parties. Clinton is on
track to get fewer votes in the county than the Democratic candidate for
Congress, Joe Pakootas, something that hasn't happened since 1996. Trump is
significantly behind U.S. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, but she usually outpolls
the GOP nominee.

Where did those votes go?

Some 18,500 Spokane County voters went for third-party candidates - more than
three times as many as 2008. Another 8,000 wrote in another name - almost six
times as many as eight years ago and four times as many as 2012. Part of that
could be chalked up to supporters of Bernie Sanders or one of the GOP hopefuls
who lost in the primaries sticking with their guy. There was also a concerted
effort by some establishment Republicans to coalesce behind Evan McMullin, who
didn't start his campaign soon enough to qualify for the Washington ballot.

Except for the Republican state party chairwoman who insisted Trump was going to
capture Washington, the outcome of the statewide presidential race wasn't in
doubt. So some unhappy Democrats and Republicans may have felt free to vote
their conscience or their whim. But that also was true in the two previous
elections. And for those who believe the old George Wallace adage of there not
being a dime's worth of difference between Democrats and Republicans - possibly
less true than any year since William Jennings Bryan ran against William Taft
1908 - they had a Libertarian, a Green Party candidate, a Constitutionalist and
two Socialists.

Jill Stein of the Green Party and Libertarian Gary Johnson were both on the
ballot for a second time. She did three times better than 2012. He did almost
four times better.

Another 2,600 - almost triple the number and the percentage from 2008 -
essentially said "none of the above" by leaving the presidential race blank.
While that's still the race with the fewest undervotes countywide, when combined
with all the other options for the presidential race it shows a marked increase
in dissatisfaction with the end result of the major parties' nominating process.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Spin Control, a weekly column by political reporter Jim Camden, also
appears online with daily items and reader comments at spokesman.com/
blogs/spincontrol.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             504 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

FACEBOOK CEO SAYS HE'S FIXING FAKE NEWS PROBLEM

SECTION: A; Pg. 011

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru


LIMA, Peru - Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg urged world leaders meeting in Peru on
Saturday to help get more people online to improve global living standards while
separately announcing new measures to cut down on fake news stories on the
social network that some suggest could have helped sway the U.S. presidential
election.

The Facebook founder took on the role of an evangelist for "connectivity" as he
spoke at an Asian-Pacific trade summit, lamenting that half the world has no
access to the online world. He urged leaders at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Forum to work with his company and others to close that gap.

But as he was promoting the benefits of the online world in the speech, he took
to his Facebook page to address one of the downsides of the internet: the rapid
dissemination of bogus news stories on social networks.

Zuckerberg said in a post late Friday that his company was taking measures to
curb what he said was a "relatively small" percentage of deliberately false
stories. The measures include developing new tools to detect and classify
"misinformation" and to make it easier for users to report the material.

He said the company also is looking into the possibility of working with
established fact-checking organizations to evaluate content and into the
feasibility of warning labels for stories flagged as false.

Critics have complained that a surge of fake news stories on Facebook may have
swayed some voters to back President-elect Donald Trump. The company said on
Monday that it was clarifying its advertising policy to emphasize that it won't
display ads - thus cutting revenue - for sites that run information that is
"illegal, misleading or deceptive, which includes fake news."

"The bottom line is: we take misinformation seriously," the Facebook CEO said in
his post.

Zuckerberg's comments came after President Barack Obama, who is also attending
the APEC summit, and others have been sharply critical of the spread of fake
news online.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             505 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

POPE GIVES CHURCH 17 NEW CARDINALS Former Spokane Bishop Cupich among them

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SECTION: A; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: VATICAN CITY


VATICAN CITY  - Pope Francis warned against what he called a "virus of
polarization" and hostility in the world targeting people  of different
nationalities, races or beliefs, as he led a ceremony Saturday giving the Roman
Catholic Church 17 new cardinals from six continents, including Blase Cupich,
bishop of the Spokane diocese before he was named archbishop in Chicago.

The consistory ceremony in St. Peter's Basilica formally inducted the churchmen
into the cardinals' ranks.

Francis used his homily to also caution the new "princes of the church," as
cardinals are sometimes called, to guard against animosity creeping into the
church as well, saying "we are not immune from this."

The pope spoke of "our pitiful hearts that tend to judge, divide, oppose and
condemn" and cautioned somberly against those who "raise walls, build barriers
and label people."

Earlier this year, when asked about the plan by Donald Trump, then a Republican
U.S. presidential candidate and now president-elect, to build a wall to keep
Mexicans from entering the U.S., the pope replied that anyone advocating
building walls isn't a Christian.

In Saturday's homily, Francis commented how "we see, for example, how quickly
those among us with the status of the stranger, an immigrant, or a refugee,
become a threat, take on the status of an enemy. An enemy because they come from
a distant country, or have different customs."

He added: "The virus of polarization and animosity permeates our way of
thinking, feeling and acting."

Saturday's appointment of  Cupich to cardinal in the Catholic Church follows a
career path that rocketed ahead in the past six years - from leading a rural
diocese in western South Dakota to fixing a bankrupted church in Spokane and to
taking over the influential position as archbishop of Chicago.

Before he was named archbishop of Chicago, the third-largest Catholic diocese in
the United States, two years ago, Cupich was called to Spokane to fix a diocese
struggling with the aftermath of bankruptcy brought about by lawsuits filed
after decades of child sex abuse by clergy.

He moved quickly, reviewing what he saw as a flawed and controversial settlement
with victims that left churches exposed to future litigation and parishioners
disgusted by both the actions of church leaders and the roughly $50 million used
to pay victims, lawyers and other bills.

Cupich, 67, was ordained in 1975. He has been considered one of the church's
thought leaders in responding to crisis and preserving mission. His reputation
is one of a pragmatist. He chooses words and strategy carefully and has made
decisions that have earned him the tag of a moderate among Catholic leaders.

Before he came to Spokane in 2010, he was the bishop for 12 years in Rapid City,
South Dakota.

Cupich, after being made a cardinal at Saturday's ceremony, said the church has
a special role in trying to bring people together across the political spectrum.
He noted that on Sunday, Masses are celebrated in 26 languages in his diocese.

"People feel disenfranchised" from sharing in the common good, the cardinal said
in an interview with the Associated Press.

Another American in the latest crop of cardinals is Irish-born Archbishop Kevin
Farrell, who led the Dallas diocese before Francis appointed him to head the
Vatican office dealing with family issues.

At a post-ceremony reception, Farrell acknowledged that polarization is felt
within the church, too.

"We've become gods on both sides - gods on the left, and gods on the right, and
neither one of these are correct," Farrell told an AP reporter.

The clash of mentalities between the conservative camps and the so-called
progressives chosen by Francis has played out publicly in recent days. Four
prominent, disgruntled cardinals, including a U.S. prelate, Raymond Burke, who
is one of Francis' most vocal critics, in a letter to the pope aired their
doubts about his more compassionate approach to the contentious issue involving
divorced Catholics. They fear his approach could sow confusion among the
faithful.

Church teaching forbids divorce, and says Catholics who remarry without
annulments of their earlier marriage are essentially adulterers who can't
receive Communion. In a document earlier this year, Francis suggested that
clerics could decide case-by-case if these Catholics could receive Communion.

Farrell, asked about the tensions over the divorce issue, appeared to be open
toward the pope's prescription for more compassion.

"There is no situation in life that's black and white. Anybody that's lived in
this world will have encountered those situations in their personal lives,"
Farrell said.

The new cardinals, who pledged loyalty to the pope, come from Africa, Asia,
Europe, Oceania, and North and South America.

One of them, an 88-year-old Albanian priest, Ernest Simoni, spent 18 years in
prison because of his faith during the communist regime in his homeland.

Since cardinals are usually bishops already, Francis bestowed a rare honor in
giving that rank to Simoni, a simple priest. When Francis visited Albania in
2014, he was brought to tears when Simoni told him how he was persecuted.

Also among the new cardinals is Archbishop Dieudonne Nzapalainga, of Bangui,
Central African Republic. Last year, Francis visited Nzapalainga's country,
bloodied by sectarian violence between Christian and Muslim militants.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             506 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                  Main Edition

APEC closes with call to work for free trade

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru


LIMA, Peru - Leaders of 21 Asia-Pacific nations ended their annual summit Sunday
with a call to resist protectionism amid signs of increased free-trade
skepticism, highlighted by the victory of Donald Trump in the U.S. presidential
election.

The Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum also closed with a joint pledge to
work toward a sweeping new free trade agreement that would include all 21
members as a path to "sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth," despite the
political climate.

"We reaffirm our commitment to keep our markets open and to fight against all
forms of protectionism," the leaders of the APEC nations said in a joint
statement.

APEC noted the "rising skepticism over trade" amid an uneven recovery since the
financial crisis and said that "the benefits of trade and open markets need to
be communicated to the wider public more effectively, emphasizing how trade
promotes innovation, employment and higher living standards."

Speaking to journalists at the conclusion of the summit, Peruvian President
Pedro Pablo Kuczynski said the main obstacle to free trade agreements in Asia
and around the world is the frustration felt by those left behind by
globalization.

"Protectionism in reality is a reflection of tough economic conditions," said
Kuczynski, the meeting's host.

Referring to Britain's vote to leave the European Union and Trump's election win
in the U.S., he said those results highlighted the backlash against
globalization in former industrial regions in the U.S. and Britain that
contrasts with support for trade in more-prosperous urban areas and developing
countries.

"This is an important point in recent economic history because of the outcome of
various elections in very important countries that have reflected an anti-trade,
anti-openness feeling," he said.

This was the last international summit for U.S. President Barack Obama and he
had been expected to promote the Trans-Pacific Partnership pact, a 12-nation
trade deal. But he is no longer expected to seek ratification by Congress before
he leaves office because of the election victory by Trump, who called the
agreement a "disaster" for jobs.

Leaders of other nations said at the APEC meeting that they might seek to modify
the TPP deal to make it more appealing to the incoming president or seek to
implement it without the U.S. But the statement issued at the close of the
summit said the organization would also work toward adoption of a broader
21-nation pact favored by the Chinese government known as the Free Trade Area of
the Asia Pacific.

The  statement also said  members will adhere to  carbon reduction goals set in
Paris last year to address climate change, a problem  they called a threat to
food production and security.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             507 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

Post-election, requests soar for long-acting birth control Women cite worries
about fate of health care coverage

BYLINE: Rachel Alexander rachela@spokesman.com, (509) 459-5406

SECTION: A; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 1095 words


Contraceptive options

Long-acting reversible contraceptive methods include several types of
intrauterine devices and an implant. All have an effectiveness rate of over 99
percent and can be removed  anytime and will not permanently affect fertility.

IUDs are small  T-shaped rods inserted in the uterus that  prevent pregnancy by
using either hormones or copper to prevent sperm from reaching the cervix.

The Paraguard IUD is a nonhormonal method that lasts for up to 12 years.  It can
cause heavier menstrual bleeding and cramping.

Hormonal IUD options include Mirena, which lasts six years, and Skyla and
Liletta, which last three.

The implant is a thin, flexible plastic rod inserted in the arm that  releases
hormones  and can prevent pregnancy for three years.

In the days following the presidential election, some people celebrated. Others
mourned. And a handful called Planned Parenthood, hoping to get long-acting
birth control before the new administration takes office.

Planned Parenthood of Greater Washington and North Idaho, which operates a dozen
clinics, saw a 76 percent increase in appointments seeking a long-acting
reversible contraceptive method in the week following the election. Those
methods include four types of intrauterine devices, or IUDs, and a hormonal
implant.

It's not just Washington. Google searches for "IUD" also spiked in the U.S. in
the two days following the election, Google Trends shows. Planned Parenthood of
Massachusetts saw a 16-fold increase in IUD appointment requests, and doctors in
other areas have reported similar trends.

Women are concerned about a possible repeal of the Affordable Care Act, which
required all health insurance plans to cover birth control without a copay, said
Tiffany Harms, Planned Parenthood spokeswoman.

"They're directly citing that as the reason why they're calling," she said.

President-elect Donald Trump has pledged to repeal Obamacare in his first 100
days in office. A Republican alternative health care proposal, posted on House
Speaker Paul Ryan's website, does not mention coverage for birth control or
mandating insurers to cover any specific forms of health care.

Washington law requires health insurance plans to cover contraceptives if they
cover other prescription drugs, without waiting periods. Insurers would be able
to charge copayments if the federal law were repealed.

Long-acting birth control methods like IUDs are among the most effective forms
of contraception, with effectiveness rates over 99 percent. Because they're
inserted by a doctor and left in place, there's no room for user error, like
forgetting to take a pill or putting a condom on incorrectly.

"We call it get it and forget it," Harms said.

In spite of their effectiveness, long-acting methods are not widely used in the
United States. A 2015 study in the journal Contraception found just 12 percent
of American women used the devices. Among family planning providers, a much
larger number - 42 percent - opted for long-acting methods.

Though they can be cheaper than a monthly prescription for a hormonal birth
control pill, IUDs are expensive upfront, costing between $500 and $1,000 for
the device and insertion.

"The first IUD I got, I saved up for it," said Rachel Todd, the education
director at Planned Parenthood.

The high cost of long-acting methods has left some women eager to make sure they
won't be footing the bill if Obamacare goes away.

Cheney resident Beth Robinette, 29, got a Mirena IUD in 2013. Though it's good
until 2019, she's planning to get it removed and have a new one inserted by the
end of the year.

"I'm going to go ahead and do it before there's any chance of those things
changing," she said.

Robinette previously used a hormonal ring, but switched to the IUD because she
wanted a birth control method with a lower hormonal dose that she didn't have to
think about. Her insurance covered the full cost.

"It was a lot of money. Definitely more money than I had in my checking and
savings combined," she said.

Providers  for the Rockwood Health System and Community Health Association of
Spokane also can supply women with  a full spectrum of birth control devices
including long-acting birth control.

Kirstin Johnson, a certified nurse midwife who works for  CHAS, said she's also
been seeing more patients wanting IUDs since the election.

"Instead of three a week it's three a day," she said.

Though she hasn't tracked exact numbers, the increased demand has led her to
double CHAS' ordering of the devices in case "there's a run on IUDs from the
manufacturers," she said.

Sarah MacDonald, 30, a Seattle resident, is also considering switching from a
contraceptive pill to an IUD.

Before Obamacare mandated birth control coverage, she paid out of pocket for her
pills. Her prescription was written for a hormone combination, not a particular
brand, so her monthly out-of-pocket cost ranged from $35 to $75 per month
depending on which brand her pharmacy stocked.

That uncertainty made it hard for her to budget. When she was younger, she also
lived 25 miles from a pharmacy, which made picking up a monthly prescription
difficult.

"People don't realize how hard it can be to get contraceptives and contraceptive
coverage," she said.

She'd like to have a  longer-term method in place in case her insurance stops
covering the full cost, she said.

"The future of the Affordable Care Act and health insurance in general is very
uncertain," she said. "That's what's really pushed me over in strongly
considering it and pursuing it."

Though health care providers understand concerns over a possible Obamacare
repeal, they also said insurance coverage isn't likely to change immediately.

"Everything's already been negotiated for insurance coverage for 2017," Johnson
said. "A new president coming in Jan. 20 isn't going to change anything Jan. 1."

CHAS can't subsidize the cost of birth control devices, Johnson said, but it
does offer appointments, including for device insertion, on a sliding scale to
people without insurance. Planned Parenthood also has a sliding scale for birth
control and appointments.

Harms said Planned Parenthood will remain committed to providing birth control
access for everyone, regardless of whether insurance coverage changes. The
organization's founders were arrested in the early 1900s for distributing
information on contraception in violation of obscenity laws.

"The foundation of Planned Parenthood is to provide these services no matter
what happens," Harms said.

Also today

Analysis considers future of Supreme Court. News, A3

Contraceptive

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             508 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

Questions swirl about Supreme Court Unclear what Trump, and even Obama, will do

BYLINE: Robert Barnes Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 611 words


Analysis

WASHINGTON - Since Donald Trump won the presidential election, I have been
consistently asked three questions about the Supreme Court. Two seem obvious,
and the third, at least to me, was surprising:

Can President Barack Obama simply appoint Judge Merrick Garland to the court
since the Senate has refused, for 250 days and counting, to act on the
nomination?

How likely is it that the court's jurisprudence on abortion will change now that
Trump will be choosing justices?

And can Trump nominate his sister, a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
3rd Circuit, in Philadelphia, to the high court?

Garland's fate

The first question is the most controversial. Even those who insist that Obama
has the power to force the issue on Garland's nomination agree it is unlikely
that he would try.

The Constitution provides that the president "shall nominate, and by and with
the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint ... Judges of the Supreme
Court, and all other Officers of the United States."

The Republican-led Senate, of course, has refused to even hold a hearing on
Garland's nomination, much less consent to his appointment. The Republicans'
position since Justice Antonin Scalia's death in February has been that the next
president should choose Scalia's replacement.

In the past, it has been generally assumed that the Senate can kill judicial
nominations simply by refusing to act upon them until the president leaves
office. Two current members of the court - John G. Roberts Jr. and Elena Kagan -
had their earlier nominations to lower courts end without the Senate taking
votes.

But millions have signed petitions urging another view - that Obama gave the
Senate a chance to advise him on Garland's nomination, and because lawmakers did
not vote one way or the other, the president is free to move on to the "shall
appoint" part of the Appointments Clause.

Abortion

In a post-election interview on CBS' "60 Minutes," Trump repeated his pledge to
nominate anti-abortion justices who could help overturn Roe v. Wade, the 1973
decision that said a woman has a constitutional right to seek an abortion.

If that happened, Trump said, abortion decisions would go back to the states,
and some could ban it. Asked whether he was comfortable with the idea that women
might have to go to other states to end their pregnancies, Trump replied: "Well,
we'll see what happens. It's got a long way to go."

Almost everyone can agree on that.

It became clear at the end of the court's last term that there is a majority on
the court to maintain Roe and the line of subsequent cases that have expounded
on that constitutional right. The court has acknowledged the state's interest in
protecting fetal life but also said a state's restrictions cannot put an "undue
burden" on a woman's right.

It is far from clear that even a majority of those who disagree with Roe would
move quickly to dismantle it. But the possibility is motivating both sides of
the divisive issue.

Judge Maryanne Trump Barry

Trump himself has mused about nominating his sister to the Supreme Court,
although he has said it is unlikely.

"I would love to, but I think she would be the one to say, 'No way, no way,' "
he said in a Fox News interview last year.

Judicial ethics experts said  federal laws would not prohibit Trump from
nominating Barry, who was elevated to the appeals court by President Bill
Clinton in 1999.

But the National Review has called Barry a "pro-abortion extremist judge."

Barry, who served on the appeals court with Justice Samuel Alito, was part of a
panel that struck down a New Jersey ban on the later-term abortion procedure
critics call "partial-birth abortion."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             509 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

In Brief Secession group launches quest

BYLINE: From wire reports

SECTION: A; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 373 words


SACRAMENTO, Calif. - Supporters of a plan for California to secede from the
union took their first formal step Monday morning, submitting a proposed ballot
measure to the state attorney general's office in the hopes of a statewide vote
as soon as 2018.

Marcus Ruiz Evans, the vice president and co-founder of Yes California, said his
group had been planning to wait for a later election, but the presidential
election of Donald Trump sped up the timeline.

"We're doing it now because of all of the overwhelming attention," Evans said.

The Yes California group has been around for more than two years, Evans said. It
is based around the ideas that California taxpayers pay more money to the
federal government than the state receives in spending, that Californians are
culturally different from the rest of the country, and that national media and
organizations routinely criticize Californians for being out of step with the
rest of the U.S.

Evans said he hopes to begin collecting signatures to get the measure on the
ballot in the spring. Qualifying ballot measures typically require significant
resources to pay signature gatherers, and Yes California doesn't have major
financial backing. But Evans said 13,000 people have volunteered to collect
signatures.

Various groups have made noise about California forming its own country in the
wake of Trump's election, most prominently Silicon Valley financier Shervin
Pishevar. But similar proposals have dotted the state's political landscape for
years.

Judges toss

GOP-drawn maps

MADISON, Wis. - Federal judges struck down Wisconsin's Republican-drawn
legislative districts as unconstitutional on Monday, marking a victory for
minority Democrats that could force the Legislature to redraw the maps.

The three-judge panel didn't order any immediate changes to district boundaries,
instead saying they would give state attorneys and the voters who challenged the
old maps 45 days to offer suggestions.

State lawyers plan to appeal the 2-1 ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court, but for
now the decision offers hope for Democrats who have been in the minority for six
years and lost more ground in this month's elections.

The following fields overflowed: KEYWORD = SECESSION:LA - national (300 words)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             510 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

McMorris Rodgers mum on meeting Congresswoman refuses to say whether she has
been offered a cabinet post by President-elect Donald Trump

BYLINE: Kip Hill kiph@spokesman.com, (509) 459-5429

SECTION: A; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 667 words


Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers is remaining mum about her rumored job prospects in
President-elect Donald Trump's administration.

The fourth-ranking House Republican from Spokane was captured on camera  last
weekend meeting with Trump at his golf club in New Jersey. Other visitors
included former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney and Kris Kobach,
Kansas' secretary of state, who photographers captured with an apparent action
plan for the Department of Homeland Security tucked under his arm.

The speculation about Trump's cabinet has run rampant in recent days, with the
president-elect taking to Twitter and a self-published video to describe the
transition process as smooth. McMorris Rodgers has been part of those
conversations, to the point of prompting Spokane County Auditor Vicky Dalton to
begin exploring a contingency plan if the congresswoman accepts a position in
Trump's White House.

"We've been receiving calls," Dalton said Monday.

But the congresswoman has avoided all questions posed following Sunday's meeting
about whether Trump offered her a position in his cabinet. The meeting has drawn
increased attention because McMorris Rodgers, who has criticized Trump for his
public comments about women, was the president-elect's only female visitor  last
weekend.

Despite her tepid endorsement of Trump during the campaign, McMorris Rodgers
also used her position as House Republican conference chair to arrange a meeting
on Capitol Hill between the candidate and GOP lawmakers  last summer after his
path to the nomination became assured.

The congresswoman appeared on two prescheduled radio interviews Monday, one with
KXLY's Kristi Gorenson and Bud Nameck, the other with Portland-based
conservative talk show host Lars Larson. In both interviews, McMorris Rodgers
refused to say if a potential cabinet position was discussed.

"We had a great conversation about a whole host of topics," McMorris Rodgers
responded when Larson asked directly if she was being considered as part of
Trump's administration. Her response prompted some exasperation from Larson and
a follow-up question that the congresswoman also refused to answer.

In both interviews, McMorris Rodgers praised Trump's meeting with Romney,
another prominent Republican who criticized the New York real estate mogul on
the campaign trail. Vice President-elect Mike Pence said Sunday that Romney is
under "serious consideration" for secretary of state.

Molly Drenkard, a spokeswoman for the congresswoman, said Tuesday that McMorris
Rodgers' focus remains on serving as House Republican conference chair, a post
she was re-elected to last week. The congresswoman would not  comment further on
speculation about a cabinet position, Drenkard said.

That hasn't lessened speculation about where McMorris Rodgers might end up if
she's part of the new  administration. Guesses by national pundits, including at
the Washington Post, center on secretary of the interior, a post currently held
by Seattle businesswoman Sally Jewell. The interior secretary is responsible for
247 million acres of public lands as well as grazing, mining and coal leases.

McMorris Rodgers stressed her work on hydropower in her successful congressional
campaign. She also touted work on national forest management legislation with
Democratic Sen. Maria Cantwell, though the bill she helped work through the
Republican-led House in 2015 was panned by critics for limiting public input in
the rebuilding process. The U.S. Forest Service falls under the Department of
Agriculture.

If McMorris Rodgers were to be named to the cabinet, an election would need to
be held to fill her seat. The Constitution requires a ballot, not an
appointment, for a seat in Congress. The most recent example in Washington came
in 2012, when then-Rep. Jay Inslee resigned from Congress to launch a successful
campaign for governor. Inslee left office March 20, 2012, and the seat was
vacant seven months before voters elected Rep. Suzan  DelBene in November.

meeting

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             511 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

Iran's atomic chief seems unconcerned about Trump Thinks promise to scrap
nuclear deal won't happen

BYLINE: Ishaan Tharoor Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 526 words


Officials: U.S. approves Airbus sale

WASHINGTON - The Obama administration has green-lighted the sale of more than
100 Airbus planes to Iran, officials said Tuesday. It is the latest U.S. license
for commercial activity with the Islamic republic following last year's nuclear
deal.

Airbus in September received a license to sell 17 planes to Tehran. Two U.S.
officials with knowledge of the matter said the European manufacturer got
permission Monday to export 106 more.

Airbus needs Treasury Department approval because at least 10 percent of the
plane's components are American-made. Hoping to replace its aging fleet of 1970s
U.S. aircraft, Iran has agreed to purchase tens of billions of dollars' worth of
planes from Airbus and its American competitor, the Boeing Co.

Associated Press

Throughout the U.S. presidential election campaign, Donald Trump repeatedly
articulated disgust for the nuclear deal reached last year between Iran and
world powers and promised to scrap it if he took office.  Although Trump won the
election, the head of Iran's nuclear program, Ali Akbar Salehi, doesn't appear
too concerned about Trump's  threat.

Alongside President Hassan Rouhani and Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif,
Salehi was one of the main Iranian officials to take part in negotiations with
counterparts from the United States and the other permanent members of the U.N.
Security Council. The agreement put limits on Tehran's nuclear program in return
for sanctions relief and the unfreezing of Iranian funds locked in foreign bank
accounts.

Iranian officials have warned the United States that any steps to renege on the
deal would potentially kill it - sounding the drums of war in the Middle East
and sparking an international diplomatic crisis, with allies in Europe likely to
be aggrieved by Washington's rejection of what took years of multilateral
negotiation and coordination.

"The Islamic Republic of Iran acts upon its undertakings under the nuclear deal
and we expect the other side to act upon its undertakings as well," Salehi said
Tuesday, according to a report in the semiofficial Fars News Agency. "I imagine
when the U.S. president practically takes the country's leadership, he will take
actions on the basis of the realities."

Salehi added: "It is an international issue and we think that we will not face
so many problems."

His public calm belies divisions within Iranian politics over the deal and the
wisdom of negotiating anything with the United States, a longtime geopolitical
foe. Some hard-liners close to the inner circle of Iran's supreme leader,
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, also have indicated their desire to tear up the
agreement. Khamenei, for his part, said earlier this year that if Trump scraps
the deal, "we will set fire to it."

Meanwhile, policy experts and officials in Washington, including those who
staunchly opposed the Iran deal during its inception, also are cautioning
against scrapping it - a move that would profoundly antagonize U.S. allies.
Rather, they're pushing for a tightening of conditions and a re-imposition of
sanctions so that Tehran will feel compelled to renegotiate some of the terms of
the deal.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             512 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

Trump shifts on Clinton, climate

BYLINE: Karen Tumulty Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 1517 words


President-elect Donald Trump abruptly abandoned some of his most tendentious
campaign promises Tuesday, saying he does not plan to prosecute Hillary Clinton
for her use of a private email system or the dealings of her family foundation,
has an "open mind" about a climate-change accord from which he vowed to withdraw
the United States and is no longer certain that torturing terrorism suspects is
a good idea.

The billionaire real estate developer also dismissed any need to disentangle
himself from his financial holdings, despite rising questions about how his
global business dealings might affect his decision-making as the nation's chief
executive.

"The law's totally on my side. The president can't have a conflict of interest,"
Trump told editors and reporters of the New York Times during an expansive,
hourlong question-and-answer session. "In theory, I could run my business
perfectly and then run the country perfectly. There's never been a case like
this."

Trump further sought to distance himself from a small, far-right movement known
for its embrace of racist and anti-Semitic rhetoric that has celebrated Trump's
election.

"I don't want to energize the group, and I disavow the group," Trump said of the
alt-right.

The president-elect has a record of making statements that are inconsistent with
his previous ones, which means it is uncertain whether any of the positions he
espoused on Tuesday will hold in the days going forward, much less after he is
inaugurated.

Some of Trump's shifts also have the potential to spark a backlash from his most
ardent supporters.

In his meeting with the Times, Trump assumed a more cordial, magnanimous posture
than he has in recent days. Over the weekend, he used his Twitter account to
attack the comedy of "Saturday Night Live" and the cast of the hit Broadway show
"Hamilton." On Monday, he upbraided broadcast news executives and on-air
journalists in an off-the-record session that quickly leaked to other media.

Hillary Clinton

His stance on Clinton, the former secretary of state, was a jarring pivot from
the presidential campaign, during which he called her "Crooked Hillary" and
threatened during one of their debates to put his Democratic opponent in jail.
At his rallies and during the Republican convention in Cleveland, Trump's
supporters would regularly chant, "Lock her up!"

But on Tuesday, he said: "I don't want to hurt the Clintons. I really don't. She
went through a lot and suffered greatly in many different ways."

Asked whether that meant he had ruled out appointing a special prosecutor, as he
had said he would, Trump said: "It's just not something that I feel very
strongly about."

If Trump were to push or try to block a criminal investigation from the Oval
Office, it would mark an extraordinary break with political and legal protocol,
which holds that the attorney general and FBI make decisions on whether to
conduct probes and file charges, free of pressure from the president.

The president-elect's new position may also have no effect on the plans of other
members of his party on Capitol Hill. Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, who is
finishing his first term leading the powerful House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, has vowed to continue to investigate Clinton's email server.

An attorney for Clinton, David Kendall, declined to comment.

Climate change

Trump also shifted position on climate change, saying he believes there is "some
connectivity" between human activity and rising global temperatures.

In 2012, he had brushed off that idea as a Chinese hoax, tweeting: "The concept
of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S.
manufacturing non-competitive."

Asked whether he plans to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris climate
accord, he said he is keeping "an open mind to it." The deal negotiated by
nearly 200 countries last year commits them to a global push to reduce
greenhouse gases.

Trump, however, has repeatedly said the agreement is bad for U.S. businesses. In
a speech in May, he declared that during his first 100 days in office, "we're
going to cancel the Paris climate agreement and stop all payments of U.S. tax
dollars to U.N. global warming programs."

Use of torture

Trump signaled another shift on the question of how to treat terrorism suspects.
During his presidential campaign, he had said that he would reinstate the use of
waterboarding and similar interrogation techniques in the questioning of
suspected terrorists.

"Don't tell me it doesn't work - torture works," Trump said in February at a
retirement community in South Carolina.

But Tuesday he suggested he might have changed his mind after interviewing a
leading candidate for secretary of defense, retired Marine Corps Gen. James
Mattis, who headed the U.S. Central Command.

Mattis argued that he had never found harsh interrogation techniques "to be
useful," Trump said.

Potential conflict of interest

Trump spoke extensively about the implications of an unprecedented situation in
which a businessman with global holdings will sit in the Oval Office. That
prospect has prompted criticism that there will be inevitable conflicts of
interest.

His election, Trump acknowledged, has been good for his business, making the
name that he emblazons on his properties and markets through his licensing
agreements "a hotter brand than it was before."

As he plans his presidential transition, Trump remains involved in several of
his private enterprises.

He held a meeting at Trump Tower with three business partners building a Trump
property south of Mumbai. His new hotel in Washington, just blocks from the
White House, last week invited about 100 foreign diplomats to hear a sales
pitch.

While no statute specifically requires divestment by the president, all of them
in modern history have put their assets under independent management, generally
through a blind trust.

Trump noted that he has turned the management of his businesses over to his
children, giving him a requisite distance from the operation, but he protested:
"If it were up to some people, I would never, ever see my daughter Ivanka
again."

But his comments fueled more criticism.

"Donald Trump campaigned against a culture of self-enrichment in Washington and
pledged to 'drain the swamp,' but made clear today that he doesn't think the
rules apply to him," Democratic National Committee communications director Adam
Hodge said in a statement. "He fully intends to use the Oval Office to expand
his family's wealth."

Trump's insiders

In disavowing the alt-right movement, Trump also came to the defense of his
campaign's chief executive, Stephen Bannon, whom he intends to bring into the
White House as his chief strategist.

Bannon is on a leave of absence as chairman of the website Breitbart News, a
leading voice of the alt-right movement. In a recent interview with the Wall
Street Journal, Bannon conceded that the alt-right has "some racial and
anti-Semitic overtones," but he insisted he does not hold those views.

The president-elect defended Bannon. "If I thought he was a racist or alt-right
or any of the things, the terms we could use, I wouldn't even think about hiring
him," Trump said, adding that such accusations are "very hard on" Bannon,
"because it's not him."

Trump also suggested that he might make his son-in-law Jared Kushner, an
observant Jew, a special envoy to work on brokering peace in the Middle East.

Kushner, a publishing and real estate executive with no background in
international diplomacy, "would be very good at it," Trump said. "I would love
to be able to be the one that made peace with Israel and the Palestinians."

Media criticism

Trump also used the session to air his grievances with the campaign coverage of
the newspaper, which he frequently refers to as "the failing New York Times."
Shortly before the session, he had announced via Twitter that he was canceling
the meeting, but he then reversed himself.

He tempered his criticism with praise, however, and at one point called the
Times "a great great American jewel," according to a tweet by Julie Davis, who
covers the White House for the newspaper.

During the session, he also softened his frequent threat to reopen libel laws
and use them more aggressively against news outlets that write critical things
about him.

His reconsideration, he said, came after he discussed the issue with an
associate who told him, "You know, you might be sued a lot more.' I said, 'You
know, I hadn't thought of that.' "

Up next

Shortly after the interview, Trump departed for Palm Beach, Florida, where he
plans to take a break from transition planning and spend Thanksgiving at his
Mar-a-Lago estate.

However, Trump tweeted that he is closing in on another Cabinet selection: his
onetime presidential rival, retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, as secretary of
housing and urban development.

Carson told Fox News: "It certainly is something that has been a long-term
interest of mine and I'll be thinking and praying about it seriously over the
holiday."

Trump

The following fields overflowed: KEYWORD = TRUMP:TBW - national  itop (300
words)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             513 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

It's a fact: Fake news fools many Americans

SECTION: A; Pg. 013

LENGTH: 509 words


Editorial

Along with the revival of civics classes, our educational system could, perhaps,
introduce courses in media literacy, because Americans are in serious need of a
reality check.

Fake news articles used to be confined to pass-around emails, which didn't have
the reach or sudden impact they now enjoy on social media. But consider this
finding from a BuzzFeed News analysis:

"In the final three months of the U.S. presidential campaign, the top-performing
fake election news stories on Facebook generated more engagement than the top
stories from major news outlets such as the New York Times, Washington Post,
Huffington Post, NBC News and others."

BREAKING!!!! THIS IS A VERY REAL THREAT TO DEMOCRACY!!!!"

And that's the truth. What isn't true is much of what is written in cartoonish
fonts and over-the-top language. We've experienced an uptick in letters to the
editor based on fake news, and we reject them.

The Washington Post and New York Times lifted the curtain on fake journalism
with a couple of timely articles over the weekend. One financially successful
venture, LibertyWriterNews, is run by two unemployed restaurant workers who sit
on a couch with their laptop computers and guffaw as they hit the "send" button.
They admitted to a Washington Post reporter that their inspiration is 19th
century yellow journalism.

Generally, people don't like being played for fools, but when you're politically
motivated to believe what you see, critical thinking skills can go by the
wayside. Hillary Clinton implicated in an underage sex ring? This was peddled by
a conspiracy site called True Pundit, and it's false. But if retired Gen.
Michael Flynn tweets the claim, it has to have some merit, right? Wrong. And
yet, Flynn is President-elect Donald Trump's choice as national security
adviser, a post where facts matter.

The nation has moved from unsuspecting relatives forwarding hoax emails to much
more serious terrain. When fake news can go viral in a flash and be passed along
by important figures, the facts become muddled and political debates thrown off
course.

A case in point, according to a New York Times article, is a man in Austin,
Texas, who had about 40 Twitter followers. He photographed a line of buses and
tweeted the picture, along with a suggestion that anti-Trump protesters were
being bused in for rallies. In fact, the vehicles had transported about 1,300
attendees to a software conference - a fact that was unearthed when a reporter
called to ask (what a concept). By the time the Texas tweeter had stamped his
original claim "False," it was too late. It had been retweeted more than 16,000
times and shared more than 350,000 times on Facebook. Trump mentioned it in a
tweet.

You may hear about it at Thanksgiving dinner.

The mainstream media isn't held in the highest regard, according to polls, but
newspapers do run corrections and are staffed by professional journalists who
try to get stories right. Walk away from that, if you must, but the antidote
isn't fake anecdotes. Choose wisely, and consider the source.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             514 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Briefcase Original Gerber baby celebrates birthday

BYLINE: From wire reports

SECTION: A; Pg. 016

LENGTH: 510 words


The original Gerber baby has turned 90.

The baby food maker says Ann Taylor Cook celebrated her 90th birthday on Sunday.

Cook was about 4 months old in 1927 when her image was sketched in charcoal by a
family friend. The drawing was submitted to Gerber a year later when Gerber put
out a call for images to be used in its new baby food advertisements. Cook's
picture became the company's official trademark in 1931.

Cook became a mother of four and taught literature and writing in Tampa,
Florida, for 26 years before retiring in 1989.

Post-election optimism seen in marketplace

Consumer confidence rose more than previously reported to a six-month high in
November, showing Americans became more optimistic about their finances and the
economy after Donald Trump won the presidential election.

The University of Michigan said Wednesday that its final index of sentiment rose
to 93.8 from 87.2 in October, after a preliminary reading of 91.6 that reflected
pre-election views. The split was stark between respondents in the month's
survey before and after the Nov. 8 vote, with sentiment rising 8.2 points in the
post-election group from the pre-election cohort.

The lift suggests that Americans were heartened on the whole by Trump's victory
over Democrat Hillary Clinton. At the same time, the increase may reflect a
"honeymoon" period that could fade unless actual economic conditions improve,
said Richard Curtin, director of the Michigan survey.

Holiday packages poised to set record

FedEx Corp. and United Parcel Service Inc. expect to set another record for
packages handled this holiday season, fueled by an estimated 17 percent jump in
online spending.

The start of online holiday shopping will trigger a surge making each Monday
from Nov. 28 through Dec. 19 among the busiest days in FedEx's history, said
Patrick Fitzgerald, the company's senior vice president of integrated marketing
and communications.

Online sales are likely to climb to $94.7 billion, representing almost 11
percent of total sales in November and December, an all-time high, according to
researcher eMarketer.

UPS expects to handle 700 million peak parcels this year, a jump of 17 percent
from 2015. It's adding 95,000 temporary workers for the holidays. FedEx sees a
10 percent increase in packages from 2015's record of 325 million, Fitzgerald
said. It's hiring more than 50,000 for temporary positions.

Cranberry sauce DIY makes a comeback

For decades, canned cranberry sauce has been a stalwart of the Thanksgiving
feast for many Americans.

In recent years, though, more consumers are  making their own sauce with fresh
cranberries, according to sales data and industry experts. As canned cranberry
sales decline, fresh cranberry sales are going up, said Kellyanne Dignan,
spokeswoman for Massachusetts-based Ocean Spray, the largest producer of
cranberry products in the U.S.

The $117 million in shelf-stable cranberry sales for the 12-month period ending
Oct. 1 represents a decrease of more than 6 percent from the $124.8 million in
the same period in 2012,  sales data show.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             515 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Post-election mood has retailers responding Choice in gifts may reveal vote of
giver Items that say 'hope,' 'kindness' popular, less so 'joy' and 'cheer'

BYLINE: Anne D'Innocenzio Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 016

LENGTH: 840 words


Gift of experiences

Shoppers have generally been moving away from buying "stuff" and more toward
spending on experiences. Factors from the weather to when Thanksgiving falls
already affect how stores fare at the holidays, and retailers from department
stores to discounters are under intense pressure from online sellers to offer
low prices and convenience.

NEW YORK  - A divisive election that left half the country deflated and the
other half rejuvenated could reverberate through the holiday shopping season in
the kind of gifts people are giving or how much they spend.

Some retailers say they have seen a surge in feel-good items such as spa
treatments, candles and comfort food, while executives at some major retailers
like Wal-Mart, Target and Macy's, have said there's no discernable shift in
consumer behavior since the presidential election won by Republican Donald
Trump.

The divide in the outlook may reflect the rift in the election, as Americans
split along geographic lines as well as by income.

"I don't need a comfort dog. I don't need anybody to feel sorry for me," said
Rhondi Bleeker, 50, of Totowa, New Jersey. "I'm actually happy because I was for
Trump."

Bleeker, who owns an eyelash extension business, believes the economy will be
better now. She says she'll still be spending the same $3,000 as she does every
holiday season, but she believes her business could do even better because
whether people are sad or happy, most will want retail therapy.

Some shoppers say they plan to divert money from traditional gifts like sweaters
to donations to charity groups in their friends' or relatives' names.

Ryan Holmes of Chicago, who voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton, said he plans to
devote at least one-quarter of the $750 he typically spends on holiday gifts to
doing that. Even for gifts like music or books, he says he can't help but feel
he might make a political statement such as perhaps giving a book on climate
change to educate a friend.

"I am frightened to what's to come, and sad and less hopeful," said Holmes, 34,
an urban planning and real estate consultant. But he added, "I'm feeling more
engaged."

A dip in buying before a presidential election is normal as people are
distracted, but spending usually bounces back afterward.

Tamara Gaffney, principal analyst and director at Adobe Systems, an online
research company, said that between Nov. 1 and Nov. 14 this year, retailers lost
out on more than $800 million in online revenue, with the sharpest drop
happening after the Nov. 8 election. States that voted Democratic have seen the
biggest drops since the election, she said. Gaffney says she's waiting to see
how the Thanksgiving weekend plays out and may have to revise the original
holiday online sales growth forecast of 11 percent.

"We are in uncharted territory," said Gerald Storch, the CEO of Hudson's Bay
Co., which operates department stores under that name, Lord & Taylor and Saks
Fifth Avenue. "We will know more as we get past Black Friday."

The divide could play into the hands of retailers who customize goods to cater
to increasingly fragmented tastes.

"While some people might drive an election boost, there are going to be others
that will hold back," said Frank Badillo, director of research at consumer
research group MacroSavvy LLC. "The winners and losers are going to be divided
by category, by store, by different parts of the country."

Peter Gold, chief marketing officer at Market America's online marketplace
Shop.com, says since late October he's seen a sales surge in spa products,
candles, and comfort food that he expects will continue through the holidays.

Products that bear words like "hope" and "kindness" are seeing sales as much as
double since the election, says Lee Rhodes, founder and CEO of the nine-store
Glassybaby chain that sells handblown glass items. Those with themes like "elf"
and "joy" have not kept pace, she said.

Nielsen's most recent surveys have shown that food has catapulted into the No. 2
spot in terms of hot holiday gifts, past toys and consumer electronics this
season, said Jordan Rost of the company's consumer insights division. Gift cards
ranked first, as they have for several years. He said food is a safe bet for
retailers because millennials turn to comfort food when they are stressed, and
baby boomers turn to food as a reward.

Miriam Naficy, whose online retail site Minted crowdsources stationery as well
as art and home decor, noticed a gap in what customers wanted in greeting cards.
After rising 9 percent since Oct. 1 in all states, the demand for the word
"cheer," in holiday cards has fallen 14 percent since the election. Demand for
cards using "peace," which is not usually as popular, was up 14 percent, and
those using "hope" rose 9 percent.

"We are scrambling quickly to repurpose the cards,"  Naficy said. "Half the
audience is happy; the other half are not. Some people are trying to send love
in their own way - some people want to send love in a quiet way. You have to
have something for everyone."

voter gifts

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             516 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                  Main Edition

SECTION: A; Pg. 013

LENGTH: 469 words


Letters

Coulter instead of Pitts

One doesn't have to read many opinion pieces by your desired columnist Leonard
Pitts to conclude he is a hate-filled Democrat loser. His columns, before and
after the election, are shining examples. His columns incite and give a voice to
divisive political and racial antipathy.

The election of Donald Trump is a fitting rebuke of Obama, his policies and
liberalism in general. There is no other way to look at it.

Conservative columnist and best-selling author Ann Coulter, viciously hated by
liberals because she tells the truth about them, would be a fitting replacement
for "deniers" like Pitts. She endorsed Trump the day after he announced his
presidential bid in June 2015 and was widely ridiculed by "the smirking class."
Her best-selling book, "In Trump We Trust," written before his nomination,
presciently outlines why Trump's campaign resonated with "the working class."
She's "too controversial"? She's had the last laugh!

"Are we that country?" Yes, Leonard, we're Pitts offed.

John Weisenburger

Spokane

Find common ground

The misrepresentations and lies from both sides of the political spectrum are
getting tiresome, especially since we as a people have more in common than we
have apart.

Trump won the presidency. For whatever reasons, Hillary lost. Trump's presidency
is legitimate and is no less so because he did not get the votes from the
majority. He won an Electoral College election, not a popular vote election.
This is not the first time the presidency was awarded to the person who failed
to win the majority, and as it is developing, Hillary Clinton is on track to
have the historically largest number of votes for the loser of a presidential
election.

We are all Americans and we are all in this together. As President Obama
succinctly put it, we are all on the same team. We need to find common ground
where we can and resist all forms of intolerance as we must.

Harvey McKelvey

Newman Lake

Striking back

Reflecting on the recent election, it is tempting to use a "Star Wars" analogy
and conclude that we are in Episode V, where the empire strikes back and Darth
Vader has just become the president. However, many "Star Wars" fans will accuse
me of insulting Darth Vader, who was far more intellectually honest than The
Donald seems to be.

Since the political life of this country is a pendulum, it will inevitably swing
back once the force, which was tapped by Bernie Sanders, fully awakens.

However, if the Jedi are to succeed in regaining the high ground, we will have
to remember the words of Yoda when he was coaching Luke Skywalker. Luke was
tasked with raising his ship from the swamp and he said, "I'll try." Yoda
responded, "There is no try - there is only do or not do." So, come on, people,
let's do this.

Daniel Schaffer

Spokane

text/cci-newsdesk

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             517 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

Trump names two more aides President-elect chooses advisers for national
security, legal issues

BYLINE: Steve Peoples and Todd Richmond Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 399 words


MADISON, Wis.  - President-elect Donald Trump pressed forward Friday with two
more administration picks.

Gathered with family at his Mar-a-Lago Palm Beach estate for the holiday
weekend, the incoming president made two senior-level staff appointments and
scheduled meetings with several more prospective administration officials.

He tapped Fox News analyst Kathleen Troia "KT" McFarland to serve as deputy
national security adviser and campaign attorney Donald McGahn as White House
counsel. In a statement, Trump cited McFarland's "tremendous experience and
innate talent" and said McGahn "has a brilliant legal mind, excellent character
and a deep understanding of constitutional law."

Having faced criticism about the inexperience of his initial picks, Trump finds
in McFarland someone who previously worked under three presidents, although none
since Ronald Reagan. McGahn, a veteran Republican election lawyer, served as
Trump's attorney during the campaign.

Neither position requires Senate confirmation.

Trump transition spokesman Sean Spicer said the president-elect scheduled Monday
meetings with eight more prospective administration hires, a group that includes
several business leaders, Pennsylvania Rep. Lou Barletta, and David Clarke, the
Wisconsin sheriff who is an aggressive opponent of the Black Lives Matter
movement.

There were also signs of internal discord within the president-elect's small
inner circle as Trump weighed his choices for secretary of state.

The options for the nation's chief diplomat include former New York City Mayor
Rudy Giuliani, who lacks foreign policy experience but was intensely loyal to
Trump, and 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who aggressively
opposed Trump's candidacy but is largely regarded as more qualified.

Trump spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway took the unusual step of shining light on the
controversy over the Thanksgiving holiday, tweeting that she had been "receiving
a deluge of social media & private concerns re: Romney Some Trump loyalists warn
against Romney as sec of state."

Trump's transition team indicated he was focused on the challenges of governing.

Since arriving at his Palm Beach estate Wednesday, they said, the
president-elect has spoken to the prime ministers of Greece, Hungary and Sweden,
along with the presidents of Panama and Slovenia.

He is expected to return to his New York City home on Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             518 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

Wisconsin recount faces Dec. 13 deadline

BYLINE: Patrick Marley and Bill Glauber Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

SECTION: A; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 649 words


Wisconsin will begin a historic presidential recount next week and the state
could risk losing its ability to have its 10 electoral votes counted if it
doesn't meet key deadlines next month.

Hitting a Dec. 13 deadline could be particularly tricky if Green Party
presidential nominee Jill Stein is able to force the recount to be conducted by
hand, Wisconsin's top election official said.

Stein and independent presidential candidate Roque "Rocky" De La Fuente
separately filed recount requests late Friday, the last day they were able to do
so. Stein received about 30,000 votes and De La Fuente about 1,500 out of 3
million cast.

One or both of them will have to pay for the recount because they lost by more
than 0.25 percent. The cost could top $1 million.

Stein is also planning to ask for recounts in Michigan and Pennsylvania, which
have deadlines next week. She has raised $5 million for the recounts in recent
days - more than she raised during her campaign leading up to the Nov. 8
election.

Wisconsin's recount will likely begin late next week, once the state has tallied
a cost estimate and received payment from Stein's campaign, said Michael Haas,
administrator of the Wisconsin Elections Commission.

Recounts will be done by county boards of canvassers, which will likely have to
work nights and weekends, Haas said.

The push for a recount came as liberals raised fears about hacked voting
machines. Election officials and experts say they are unaware of any problems
with Wisconsin's vote tally.

Republican Donald Trump edged out Democrat Hillary Clinton by some 27,000 votes
in Wisconsin, becoming the first GOP presidential candidate to win the state
since 1984.

Wisconsin's last statewide recount was in 2011 for a state Supreme Court seat
and the outcome did not change. The recount showed Justice David Prosser
defeated challenger JoAnne Kloppenburg by 7,004 votes - a slightly tighter
margin than the 7,316-vote victory he had in initial returns.

That recount took more than a month. This one would have to happen more quickly
because of a federal law that says states must complete presidential recounts
within 35 days of the election to ensure their electoral votes are counted. This
year, that's Dec. 13.

"You may potentially have the state electoral votes at stake if it doesn't get
done by then," said Haas.

A lawyer with Stein's campaign has said it wants the recount done by hand. That
would take longer and require a judge's order, Haas said.

Perhaps the most important deadline is Dec. 19, when electors around the country
must meet to cast their Electoral College votes, said Edward Foley, an expert in
election law at Moritz College of Law at Ohio State University.

"That is a hard deadline and if a state were to miss that deadline, it would be
technically in jeopardy of not having its electoral votes counted," he said.

If the recount isn't complete by then, electors from Wisconsin could meet anyway
and try to have their results sent to Congress by the time it counts the votes
on Jan. 6, Foley said. Congress has wide latitude to decide how to count the
states' electoral votes.

Political scientist Barry Burden, the director of the Elections Research Center
at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, said it would be extremely difficult to
complete the recount on time. About twice as many votes were cast in the
presidential election as the 2011 Supreme Court race.

In recounts, typically both candidates gain votes, in part because absentee
ballots that weren't counted initially get tallied, he said. Some absentee
ballots don't get counted on election day because they were damaged or had extra
marks on them.

Closing Clinton's gap of 27,000 votes is unlikely, Burden said. She would have
to win recounts in all three states to win the presidency - an even more remote
possibility.

The following fields overflowed: KEYWORD = ADV26:MW - national (1100 words)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             519 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

Clinton camp joins recount Trump calls effort a 'scam by the Green Party'

BYLINE: Don Lee Tribune News Service

SECTION: A; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 700 words


WASHINGTON - Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign will participate in an
effort led by Green Party candidate Jill Stein to recount ballots in Wisconsin
and perhaps two other battleground states that were crucial to Donald Trump's
victory, a Clinton campaign lawyer said Saturday.

In response, Trump called the recount request "ridiculous" and a "scam" designed
to raise money for Stein's political party.

In a blog post, Clinton lawyer Marc Elias said her team had not planned to
participate in a recount, noting that inquiries over the last two weeks had not
"uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or outside attempts to alter the
voting technology" that affected the final tally in Wisconsin, Michigan or
Pennsylvania.

Elias downplayed any notion that a recount would change the results, noting that
the number of votes separating Trump and Clinton in Michigan - the closest of
the three states - vastly exceeds the largest margin ever overcome in a
statewide recount.

Pre-election polls had shown Clinton leading in all three states. Trump won them
by a combined margin of 107,000 votes.

"But regardless of the potential to change the outcome in any of the states, we
feel it is important, on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally
represented in any court proceedings and represented on the ground in order to
monitor the recount process itself," he wrote.

In his statement, Trump aimed his fire at Stein, not Clinton.

"This count is just a way for Jill Stein, who received less than one percent of
the vote overall and wasn't even on the ballot in many states, to fill her
coffers with money, most of which she will never even spend on this ridiculous
recount," Trump said.

Stein, in fact, received at least 1 percent of the overall vote. She was on the
ballot in 44 states and the District of Columbia and was eligible as a write-in
candidate in three other states.

Trump continued: "This is a scam by the Green Party for an election that has
already been conceded, and the results of this election should be respected
instead of being challenged and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is
doing."

Elias said that the Clinton campaign had "quietly taken a number of steps in the
last two weeks to rule in or out any possibility of outside interference" and
that others have "expended time and effort to investigate various claims of
abnormalities and irregularities."

"While that effort has not, in our view, resulted in evidence of manipulation of
results, now that a recount is underway, we believe we have an obligation to the
more than 64 million Americans who cast ballots for Hillary Clinton to
participate in ongoing proceedings to ensure that an accurate vote count will be
reported," Elias said.

Stein filed for a recount in Wisconsin on Friday. The filing deadline for a
recount has passed in Pennsylvania, so she will have to challenge that state's
results in court to proceed. In Michigan, Stein has to wait until Monday for the
certification of the results.

"If Jill Stein follows through as she has promised and pursues recounts in
Pennsylvania and Michigan, we will take the same approach in those states as
well," Elias said in the blog post.

On Friday, the Obama administration said in a statement that it was "confident
in the overall integrity of electoral infrastructure" and it defended the
integrity of the election results as representing the will of the American
people.

Although the administration warned in early October that Russian hackers were
seeking to interfere with the campaign by leaking emails stolen from Democratic
Party leaders and Clinton's aides, the White House said Friday that "we believe
our elections were free and fair from a cybersecurity perspective."

During the campaign, Clinton sharply criticized Trump for refusing to say he
would accept the election results if she won. She conceded her loss to Trump
hours after polls had closed on Election Day and congratulated him.

As of Saturday afternoon, Stein's fundraising drive had brought in about $5.8
million to support the cost of the recounts, with a goal of $7 million,
according to her website.

The following fields overflowed: KEYWORD = CLINTON:TBW - national (700 words)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             520 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

Clinton lost Obama's wins Many precincts flipped to vote Republican

BYLINE: Jim Camden jimc@spokesman.com, (360) 664-2598

SECTION: A; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 1010 words


The nationwide decline in support for Hillary Clinton compared to Barack Obama
four years ago is evident locally.

A computer-assisted analysis of voting patterns in the past three presidential
elections shows Clinton lost some of the support Obama had in north Spokane and
parts of the Spokane Valley. Republican Donald Trump also received significantly
more votes out of some Valley and rural precincts than his GOP predecessors John
McCain or Mitt Romney.

To determine how the presidential vote in Spokane County shifted, The
Spokesman-Review analyzed the precinct results for 2008, 2012 and 2016 to look
for patterns in the differences between the votes for the Republican and
Democratic nominees in each of the county's 335 precincts.

The 2008 and 2012 numbers are certified final results; the numbers for this year
will be completed this week, but county officials said last week they have only
about 25 ballots to process.

In all three elections, the Republican received the most votes countywide, while
the Democrat won the city of Spokane.

Making direct comparisons is difficult because some  precinct boundaries changed
between elections because of redistricting. But mapping the results showed areas
of the county where the shifts were most noticeable.

Overall, Republican candidates gained and Democrats lost support over those 12
years. In 2008, Barack Obama came within 1.1 percentage point of John McCain
countywide. In 2012, Obama was about 6 percentage points behind Mitt Romney, and
Hillary Clinton is 9 points behind Trump.

In 2012 and again this year, Republicans gained strength in the suburbs and
rural areas of the county. Democrats lost support in many north precincts in the
city of Spokane, particularly in the northeast part of the city, including
Hillyard, along with west and central precincts in the city of Spokane Valley.

Compared to 2008, Clinton lost the most support in some traditionally
blue-collar precincts, most notably in neighborhoods on either side of North
Division Street. Some precincts saw a shift of more than 100 votes away from the
Democratic nominee.

Although the maps show many areas of  Spokane Valley and rural Spokane County
giving Trump more support than McCain, there were also some shifts away from
Trump in the city of Spokane precincts that have long been regarded as
"establishment" Republican neighborhoods.

Clinton gained support in the lower South Hill between Interstate 90  and 29th
Avenue, and lost some intensity in the Logan neighborhood.

Romney did better than Trump in the northwest precincts of Spokane, and in
Liberty Lake. McCain and Romney both did better than Trump in the precinct that
contains Fairchild Air Force Base, and in parts of the West Plains. Trump
generally did better than McCain or Romney in the rural precincts in the
southern half of the county, and a bit better than Romney and about as well as
McCain in the north precincts between Spokane and the Deer Park area.

Running against Romney, Obama held his margins in northeast Spokane precincts,
along Division and in Hillyard, and in the Valley city precincts just east of
Havana. But Clinton lost many of those to Trump.

voting

Disappointed in Obama, she voted for Trump

Sandra Miguel voted for President Barack Obama in 2008. This year, she voted for
Donald Trump.

"I fell for all the things that Obama promised. My husband and I both thought,
well, we need a change," Sandra Miguel said. "I decided I didn't want to go down
that path again."

Miguel is 68, retired and lives in Spokane County south of Long Lake. Each month
it is a struggle to pay the bills.

In 2008 these same concerns drove her to vote for Obama. But in 2012 she voted
for Romney, and eight years after casting her ballot for Obama she believes
things are worse.

"You know, you work all your life and pay into these things and have to follow
this tight, tight budget, instead of being able to relax," she said.

She said Trump's enthusiasm and his focus on "making America great again" won
her over.

"I'm not a racist, by any means," she said. "But I do think that we need to stop
bringing so many people into this country until we take care of our own."

Trump will take care of people like her and her husband, she said. And, although
some of his comments and his impulsiveness make her nervous, she also finds it
refreshing.

"For people in our age group and in our income group, I didn't feel that it has
been in our favor," she said of the last eight years.

Eli Francovich

Some cast their vote against Clinton

Jeremy Thornton is a landscaper, a  disc golfer and a die-hard Bernie Sanders
supporter. He considered voting for Hillary Clinton after Sanders lost in the
primary, but her political record left a bad taste in his mouth.

Frustrated by the two major party nominees, Thornton cast a ballot for the Green
Party's Jill Stein on Nov. 8. He believes there were many  like him who couldn't
muster support for an entrenched politician like Clinton or an "erratic"
outsider like Donald Trump.

"I don't think people were voting for Trump. I think they were voting against
Hillary," he said. "There was kind of a feeling that she was getting it handed
to her, and I think that kind of rubbed people the wrong way."

Thornton, 40, has lived in  Hillyard  for most of his life. He said he's
disappointed by the vitriol of the election.

Nationally, Clinton's popular vote lead exceeds 2 million, or about 1.5 percent
of all ballots cast. But in closely contested areas like Hillyard, distrust of
Clinton may have given a decisive edge to Trump.

"I think a lot of people just know that she has no (expletive) clue what to do
with this country," said John Bacon, 30, who lives  streets from Thornton. "Even
though Trump's a borderline sociopath, he's still the lesser of two evils."

Thornton said his friend voted for Barack Obama in 2012 but couldn't bring
himself to vote for Clinton.

Although he feels disenfranchised, Thornton believes one thing is certain: The
United States "won't see another entrenched politician becoming the president."

Chad Sokol

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             521 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                  Main Edition

Trump alleges 'illegal' voting President-elect embraces discredited popular vote
theory

BYLINE: Paul Kane Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 001

LENGTH: 1026 words


President-elect Donald Trump spent Sunday ridiculing Hillary Clinton's
presidential campaign for joining a recount effort in Wisconsin, ending his day
on Twitter by parroting a widely debunked conspiracy theory that her campaign
benefited from massive voter fraud.

As his senior advisers engaged in an escalating feud over who the next secretary
of state should be, Trump focused publicly on Clinton's tally of 64 million
votes - more than 2 million more than he garnered - by suggesting without
evidence that millions of people illegally voted in the election.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," Trump tweeted
late Sunday, one of more than 10 tweets on the recount issue.

That accusation - spread by conspiracy sites such as Infowars.com and
discredited by fact-checking organizations - gained traction among some
far-right conservatives disappointed that Trump lost the popular vote.

But Trump's embrace of the claim created even more instability around the
election results from both ends of the political spectrum, with Green Party
candidate Jill Stein leading calls among liberal activists for recounts in key
battleground states to make sure  voting fraud did not give the election to
Trump.

The charges and countercharges could present a highly toxic issue for the
Justice Department, including Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., Trump's nominee to be
attorney general, whose tenure, if confirmed, comes amid a long-running battle
over renewal of the Voting Rights Act. The two parties are already locked in
fights over ballot access, with Republicans advocating ID requirements and other
limitations that Democrats say are aimed at suppressing the votes of minorities
and others more likely to vote Democratic.

Trump spent the Thanksgiving weekend out of the public spotlight, holed up
inside his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida and continuing his private deliberations
about building the next administration. Kellyanne Conway, his former campaign
manager and now senior adviser to the transition team, said on NBC's "Meet the
Press" that Trump and President Barack Obama spoke by phone for about 45 minutes
on Saturday, the latest in a series of conversations the two men have had since
the bitter campaign concluded.

Conway also led a  rear-guard attack on 2012 GOP nominee Mitt Romney as a
possible secretary of state, arguing that the former Massachusetts governor was
disloyal to Trump and should not be considered for the post. The remarks
highlighted a fierce behind-the-scenes battle within the Trump camp over whether
Romney should be offered the job as a healing gesture with the establishment or
instead whether a loyalist such as former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani should
get the nod.

Rather than referee that dispute, however, Trump's only public proclamations
came over Twitter  beginning at 7:19 a.m. Sunday, when he lambasted the Clinton
campaign for agreeing to take part in a recount of votes in Wisconsin
spearheaded by Stein.

"Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the
victory speech and after the results were in. Nothing will change," Trump
tweeted.

Trump then spent five tweets quoting parts of Clinton's responses at the third
presidential debate, during which she blasted Trump for telling moderator Chris
Wallace that he would "keep you in suspense" rather than outright promise to
accept the election results.

At the debate, Clinton had called Trump's answer "horrifying" and "a direct
threat to our democracy."

On Saturday, Clinton campaign counsel Marc Elias said Clinton's advisers had
been monitoring voting patterns in critical states to see whether there were any
signs of foul play, particularly in the wake of hacking of emails at the
Democratic National Committee and of senior campaign officials earlier this
year. Elias wrote that no evidence of wrongdoing had emerged in their
preliminary review.

But once Stein's campaign formally started the recount process in Wisconsin,
Elias said Clinton's campaign would join the effort even if her top advisers did
not expect the outcome to change in any of the Midwestern states that tipped the
Electoral College balance to Trump.

Clinton's campaign plans to do the same if Stein, who has raised more than $5
million to help fund the recounts, follows through on plans to ask for the same
process in Michigan and Pennsylvania.

The total margin in those three states was 107,00 votes out of nearly 13.8
million cast, with a combined 46 electoral votes among them - enough to give the
race to Clinton had she won those three battlegrounds.

Clearly irritated by losing the popular vote, Trump suggested that the math to
getting to the 270-vote margin in the Electoral College made him come up short.
"It would have been much easier for me to win the so-called popular vote than
the Electoral College in that I would only campaign in 3 or 4 states instead of
the 15 states that I visited," he tweeted.

Meanwhile, the  feud over his pick for secretary of state hit a fevered pitch
when Conway took to three Sunday television shows to attack Romney's credentials
to be the nation's top diplomat. Conway is part of a cadre of Trump confidants
who are waging an unusual public battle against Romney to influence the
president-elect's decision.

Romney's supporters have largely counseled Trump privately, while his opponents
- Conway, former House speaker Newt Gingrich and a handful of other Trump
loyalists - have gone public in recent days to stoke a revolt.

Those opposed to Romney have been advocating Trump to reward Giuliani with the
secretary of state position, stressing his loyalty versus Romney's refusal to
publicly say who he voted for in the presidential race.

"I don't think a cost of admission for party unity has to be the secretary of
state position," Conway said on ABC's "This Week," suggesting Romney went too
far in questioning Trump's character and intellect during the presidential race.
"There was the 'Never Trump' movement and then there was Governor Mitt Romney.
He went out of his way to hurt Donald Trump."

trump

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             522 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                  Main Edition

Fillon wins France's conservative primary Presidential hopeful beats moderate
rival

BYLINE: Sylvie Corbet and Angela Charlton Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 688 words


PARIS - Francois Fillon won France's first-ever conservative presidential
primary Sunday after promising drastic free-market reforms and a crackdown on
immigration and Islamic extremism, beating a more moderate rival who had warned
of encroaching populism.

"President! President!" chanted the former prime minister's supporters as he
declared victory over Alain Juppe in a nationwide run-off election.

Polls suggest the sober, authoritative Fillon, 62, would have a strong chance of
winning the French presidency in the April-May election, amid widespread
frustration with France's current Socialist leadership.

Fillon, who was prime minister from 2007-2012 under ex-President Nicolas
Sarkozy, enjoyed a surprise surge in popularity in recent weeks. A rise in
nationalist sentiment across Europe may have favored his strict conservative
positions over Juppe's more centrist stance.

France needs "a complete change of software," Fillon said, promising in his
victory speech to defend "French values."

Among his promises: slash public spending, cap immigration, support traditional
family values and reach out to Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Juppe, 71, congratulated Fillon on his "wide victory." During the primary
campaign, he expressed similar ideas as his rival on the French economy, but
tried to rally conservatives around a more tolerant attitude toward France's
ethnic, religious and social diversity.

With results from 96 percent of voting stations, organizers of the Republicans
party primary said Fillon had 66.5 percent of votes and Juppe 33.5 percent. More
than 4 million of France's 44 million voters took part, which was considered a
good turnout given that it was the conservatives' first experiment with a
primary.

Fillon walked a careful line Sunday, stressing the need for "authority of the
state" but also insisting, "No one should feel excluded from a society that I
want to see more just and with more solidarity."

If elected next year, he pledges to hold a referendum on a quota system for
immigrants to reduce legal immigration "to a minimum," and to push for stronger
controls at Europe's borders.

In a country still rattled by a string of deadly Islamic State group attacks,
Fillon wants to prohibit French jihadists from returning home.

A practicing Catholic with a British wife of 36 years and five children, Fillon
pledges to weaken adoption rights for same-sex couples. Yet he has said he
wouldn't scrap a 2013 law allowing same-sex marriage.

His most dramatic proposals concern France's long-stagnant economy, beset by
chronic 10 percent unemployment.

He wants to cut taxes on businesses, slash public spending by 110 billion euros
($116 billion) and reduce the number of public servants. He would also raise the
retirement age from 62 to 65, extend the workweek beyond 35 hours, and ease
France's strict labor rules in order to boost  hiring.

Besides serving as prime minister, he's been a Cabinet minister six times and
spent years as a lawmaker representing his hometown of Le Mans in western
France, home to the famed auto race.

Sunday's runoff came after a bruising and highly adversarial end phase to the
monthslong primary contest, an American-style effort to end party infighting and
bolster support for the party's nominee. The conservatives previously chose
their candidate internally.

Fillon has said he wants to drop sanctions against Russia over its aggressive
actions in Ukraine and partner with Russia in the fight against Islamic State
extremists. Fillon insists "Russia poses no threat" to the West.

What's next

Fillon's toughest challenge ahead is likely to be far-right leader Marine Le
Pen. Le Pen, candidate of her National Front party, is running an
anti-establishment campaign that particularly targets immigrants, France's
Muslim minority, and the European Union.

Socialist President Francois Hollande is expected to announce in the coming
weeks whether he will seek re-election, but the French left has been deeply
weakened by his extreme unpopularity. A wild card is outsider candidate Emmanuel
Macron, Hollande's former economy minister, who is leading a centrist campaign.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             523 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

House Democrats want probe of Trump finances Letter asks Chaffetz to start
investigation

BYLINE: Mike DeBonis Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 368 words


Business scope

The Washington Post has reported that at least 111 Trump companies have done
business in 18 countries and territories - creating a panoply of potential
ethical pitfalls as Trump takes the nation's foreign policy reins.

WASHINGTON - Democrats on Monday made their strongest call to date for a
congressional investigation into President-elect Donald Trump's business
entanglements and possible conflicts of interest, asking the GOP's top House
investigator to launch a formal probe.

Seventeen Democratic members of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee called on the panel's chairman, Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, to "begin
reviewing (Trump's) financial arrangements in order to identify and protect
against conflicts of interest." The demand, in a seven-page letter, comes two
weeks after the committee's ranking Democrat, Rep. Elijah  Cummings, D-Md., made
a similar request to Chaffetz.

That request, according to the Democrats, did not receive a reply. A spokeswoman
for Chaffetz did not return a request for comment Monday.

"You have the authority to launch a Committee investigation, and we are calling
on you to use that power now," Cummings and 16 other Democrats wrote. "You acted
with unprecedented urgency to hold 'emergency' hearings and issue multiple
unilateral subpoenas to investigate (Democratic presidential nominee Hillary
Clinton) before the election. We ask that you show the same sense of urgency
now."

The Democrats said their phone lines have been "flooded" by supporters of an
investigation into Trump's business dealings, "jamming our phone lines with more
calls than we have ever received in response to any other issue."

Their letter asks Chaffetz to request copies of Trump's income tax returns and
to invite Trump aides to brief lawmakers on "their plans for protecting against
conflicts of interest." It cites  news reports raising questions about whether
Trump would be able to keep his business dealings at arm's length as long as his
children continue running his companies under the Trump Organization umbrella.

Last week, the Salt Lake Tribune, the largest paper in Chaffetz's home state,
called on him to vigorously investigate Trump's finances.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             524 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Main Edition

Trump drama rolls on: Disputes hit transition Petraeus in running for secretary
of state

BYLINE: Julie Pace and Catherine Lucey Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 834 words


Trump wins Michigan

President-elect Donald Trump has won Michigan's 16 electoral votes.

The Board of State Canvassers certified Trump's 10,704-vote victory on Monday,
nearly three weeks after the election. The two-tenths of a percentage point
margin out of nearly 4.8 million votes is the closest presidential race in
Michigan in more than 75 years. Trump is the first Republican presidential
nominee to win Michigan since 1988.

Trump's win in Michigan gives the Republican 306 electoral votes to Democrat
Hillary Clinton's 232.

Jill Stein's Green Party served notice that it would petition for a Michigan
recount.

NEW YORK - The drama, disputes and falsehoods that permeated Donald Trump's
presidential campaign are now roiling his transition to the White House, forcing
aides to defend his baseless assertions of illegal voting and sending internal
fights spilling into public.

On Monday, a recount effort, led by Green Party candidate Jill Stein and joined
by Hillary Clinton's campaign, also marched on in three states, based partly on
the Stein campaign's unsubstantiated assertion that cyberhacking could have
interfered with electronic voting machines. Wisconsin officials approved plans
to begin a recount as early as Thursday. Stein also asked for a recount in
Pennsylvania and was expected to do the same in Michigan, where officials
certified Trump's victory Monday.

Trump has angrily denounced the recounts and now claims without evidence that
he, not Clinton, would have won the popular vote if it hadn't been for "millions
of people who voted illegally." On Twitter, he singled out Virginia, California
and New Hampshire. In another series of tweets Monday, he lashed out at a CNN
reporter who had called Trump's fraud claim "baseless."

There has been no indication of widespread election tampering or voter fraud in
those states or any others, and Trump aides struggled Monday to back up their
boss's claim.

Spokesman Jason Miller said illegal voting was "an issue of concern." But the
only evidence he raised was a 2014 news report and a study on voting
irregularities conducted before the 2016 election.

Trump met Monday with candidates for top Cabinet posts, including retired Gen.
David Petraeus, a new contender for secretary of state. Trump is to meet Tuesday
with Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, who is also being considered more seriously for
the diplomatic post, and Mitt Romney, who has become a symbol of the internal
divisions agitating the transition team.

Petraeus said he spent about an hour with Trump, and he praised the
president-elect for showing a "great grasp of a variety of the challenges that
are out there."

"Very good conversation and we'll see where it goes from here," he said. A
former CIA chief, Petraeus pleaded guilty last year to a misdemeanor charge of
mishandling classified information relating to documents he had provided to his
biographer, with whom he was having an affair.

Trump is expected Tuesday to name Georgia Rep. Tom Price to lead the Department
of Health and Human Services, said a person familiar with the decision, who
insisted on anonymity because the person was not authorized to discuss the
nomination publicly.

Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who is heading the transition effort,  said
there would be "a number of very important announcements tomorrow" as he exited
Trump Tower Monday night.

Pence is said to be among those backing Romney for state. Romney was fiercely
critical of Trump throughout the campaign but is interested in the Cabinet
position, and they discussed it during a lengthy meeting earlier this month.

Other top Trump allies, notably campaign manager Kellyanne Conway, have launched
a highly unusual public campaign to warn the president-elect that nominating
Romney would be seen as a betrayal by his supporters. Conway's comments stirred
speculation that she is seeking to either force Trump's hand or give him cover
for ultimately passing over Romney.

Three people close to the transition team said Trump had been aware that Conway
planned to voice her opinion, both on Twitter and in television interviews. They
disputed reports that Trump was furious at her and suggested his decision to
consider additional candidates instead highlighted her influence.

Conway served as Trump's third campaign manager and largely succeeded in
navigating the minefield of rivalries that ensnared other officials. Trump is
said to have offered her a choice of White House jobs - either press secretary
or communications director. But people with knowledge of Conway's plans say she
is more interested in serving as an outside political adviser, akin to the role
President Barack Obama's campaign manager David Plouffe played following the
2008 election.

The wrangling over the State Department post appears to have slowed the
announcements of other top jobs. Retired Gen. James Mattis, who impressed Trump
during a pre-Thanksgiving meeting, was at the top of the list for defense
secretary, but a final decision had not been made.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             525 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

Letters

SECTION: A; Pg. 013

LENGTH: 360 words


Trump should apologize

In reading the description of the actions of the cast following Vice
President-elect Mike Pence's attendance at "Hamilton" and the transcript of
their statement, I do not believe an apology is required.

What is required is an apology to all U.S. citizens from Trump for his offensive
behavior during the presidential campaign.

Anne Oswald

Spokane Valley

Forget differences

Those people who have been through decades of elections can confirm that it is
not always easy to swallow the defeat of their candidates. Some of us even gave
up eating peanut butter during the Carter years, but we never seriously
protested.

The wimps and whiners are those students and professors who were too upset after
the election to take or give exams, and those who damaged property while
protesting. This group would do well to accept the famous quote by John F.
Kennedy, "Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your
country." Our military have lived and died by that creed for us.

Now we have the opportunity to forgive and forget differences and come together
as one united nation.

Elita Jones

Spokane

Electoral College is fine

Many voters are upset that Republican Donald Trump won the election and are
crying foul that the presidency was unfairly taken from Democratic rival Hillary
Clinton since she is ahead in the popular vote. Because their candidate lost the
election, they want to abolish the U.S. Electoral College in favor of a popular
vote.

Clinton's lead is due, in part, to the lopsided majority of about 4.4 million
votes Clinton received in the two most liberal states, California and New York.
Electing a president who does not have broad regional support could lead to a
fractured and less cohesive country.

This was the reason the founding fathers chose the Electoral College. There was
a fear that the larger population in some states would give them inordinate
power when selecting the president. Alexander Hamilton summed up how he and many
of the framers may have felt about the system, noting "that if the manner of it
be not perfect, it is at least excellent."

George Watterson

Spokane Valley

text/cci-newsdesk

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             526 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

Cabinet taking shape Price chosen for HHS, Mnuchin for Treasury

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 009

LENGTH: 465 words


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump is enlisting a trio of nominees with
deep ties to Washington and Wall Street to fill out his Cabinet, including
former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as secretary of the Treasury
Department.

On Tuesday, Trump also chose Georgia Rep. Tom Price to oversee the nation's
health care system, picking a fierce "Obamacare" critic who has championed
efforts to privatize Medicare. And he selected another veteran Republican,
Elaine Chao,  to lead the Department of Transportation.

Mnuchin's official announcement was expected as early as Wednesday, according to
a person familiar with the decision.

Mnuchin, 53, led Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign and
became close with the president-elect. But he has no government experience,
which could prove a hurdle in navigating the tricky politics of Washington.

If confirmed by the Senate, Mnuchin would play a central role in shaping Trump's
tax policies and infrastructure plans. He would also lead an agency tasked with
implementing international economic sanctions.

Trump spent much of Tuesday in his Manhattan skyscraper, racing through meetings
with prospective administration hires as high-profile vacancies remain - none
bigger than secretary of state. He emerged in the evening for a private dinner
with former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, who is on the shortlist for the
nation's chief diplomat.

Romney spoke briefly to reporters after the meal, saying he has "increasing
hope" that Trump can lead the country to a "better future."

A transition official said the president-elect and Vice President-elect Mike
Pence will travel to Indiana on Thursday for an event with Carrier, the air
conditioning company. During the campaign, Trump repeatedly used the news of
Carrier's plans to move some business to Mexico as criticism of Democratic trade
policies. Carrier tweeted, "We are pleased to have reached a deal with
President-elect Trump & VP-elect Pence to keep close to 1,000 jobs in Indy."

Price, picked to lead the Department of Health and Human Services after more
than a decade in Congress, helped craft House Speaker Paul Ryan's plan to
privatize Medicare - a position Trump opposed in the campaign.

Price's selection raised questions about the incoming president's commitment to
Medicare, among other popular entitlement programs he repeatedly vowed to
preserve before the election. The Georgia congressman led GOP efforts on Capitol
Hill to transform Medicare into a voucher-like system, a change that if enacted,
would likely dramatically reduce government spending on the health care program
that serves an estimated 57 million people.

A sweeping Medicare initiative would have to go through Congress with some
Democratic support, which would be unlikely.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             527 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Voter suppression the real scandal

SECTION: A; Pg. 013

LENGTH: 830 words


A voting scandal of epic proportion tilted this election. The scam involved
millions of people.

No, I'm not talking about the recount the Clinton campaign joined in Wisconsin
and may seek in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Hillary Clinton and her aides were
correct before, when they said voting fraud is rare. The recounts won't change
the election's outcome. And after rightly criticizing Donald Trump for saying he
might not honor the election results, Clinton and her aides, who admit they have
no evidence of skulduggery, risk looking hypocritical.

Neither am I talking about Trump's outlandish and baseless claim that millions
of noncitizens and dead people voted illegally. That's as absurd as his
pre-election claims that the voting system was "rigged."

Both distract from the real scandal, which is happening in plain sight. Millions
of would-be voters didn't participate because of obstacles designed to
discourage them. The hurdles were, thanks to a 2013 Supreme Court ruling
invalidating key parts of the Voting Rights Act, largely legal. And they
arguably suppressed enough minority voters to cost Clinton the election.

Fourteen states had new voting restrictions in place for the first time in a
presidential election, and 20 have had such restrictions put in place since
2010, according to the Brennan Center for Justice, a group that opposes such
laws. These include strict photo-ID requirements, cutbacks in early voting and
new restrictions on registration. Other states are resisting efforts that would
make voting easier with same-day, online and motor-voter registration.

At the same time, the Leadership Conference Education Fund, a civil rights
group, found that counties previously covered by the Voting Rights Act have
closed down at least 868 polling places. The closures (often without adequate
notice) disproportionately affect minority voters.

"We have across most states some significant element of voter suppression," says
Zoltan Hajnal, a University of California at San Diego political scientist
specializing in voting rights. "Over time these have shrunk the electorate in
significant ways and tilted the electorate toward the Republican Party."

The total number of would-be voters deterred is in the "millions," he said. "If
you were to superimpose the most liberal voting laws on all the states, it's
quite likely we would have had a different winner" on Nov. 8.

Though it's difficult to quantify the effect of voter suppression in 50 states,
Hajnal reports in a new study that after Texas implemented a strict voter-ID
law, Latino turnout dropped sharply between 2010 and 2014, and the gap between
white and Latino turnout increased by 9.2 percentage points.

Wisconsin adopted a tough photo-ID law, and in Milwaukee, where a large number
of African-Americans don't drive or have licenses, turnout declined in 2016 by
41,000 compared with 2012, a 15 percent drop. Turnout was significantly lower
than in 2004 and 2008 as well. The drop-off was steepest in the poorest
precincts.

"No matter how hard one tries to attribute this to lower voter interest in this
election, the stark drop must be attributable to impact of the photo-ID rule,"
argues Kristen Clarke, head of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under
Law.

Elsewhere, suppression efforts have grown more brazen. After a federal appellate
court knocked down North Carolina's voting restrictions because they targeted
black voters with "almost surgical precision," dozens of counties still cut
hours for early voting, which minority voters use disproportionately.

In Texas, similarly, officials disregarded parts of a federal appellate court
decision limiting that state's voter-ID law. And in Pennsylvania, there were
widespread reports of election officials demanding that voters show IDs even
though that state doesn't have such a law.

In the short run, this makes tactical sense for Republicans. Democratic-leaning
minority voters - African-Americans, Asian-Americans and particularly Latinos -
are forecast to grow to a majority of the voting-eligible population at
midcentury, from 31 percent today. By suppressing this vote, the effect of the
demographic change can be delayed.

The Trump administration seems to be fine with holding back the tide. The man
picked to be attorney general, Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, has opposed even
legal immigration. And, according to a report this week by Scott Shane of the
New York Times, Stephen Bannon, Trump's pick to be the top White House
strategist, once mused to a co-worker that restricting voting rights of
African-Americans might not be "such a bad thing."

So let's not get distracted by Trump's fantastic claims of millions of illegal
votes, nor by Clinton's search for a voting-system cyberattack that even the
computer scientist urging the recount says has "probably not" occurred. Focus
instead on the scandal that really is rigging American democracy.

Dana Milbank is a columnist for Washington Post Writers Group.

Dana

Milbank

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             528 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

In Brief Michigan, Nevada plan for recounts

BYLINE: From wire reports

SECTION: A; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 556 words


Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein on Wednesday requested a full hand
recount of Michigan's presidential vote, making it the third state narrowly won
by Republican Donald Trump where she wants another look at the results.

Stein previously asked for recounts of the votes in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

President-elect Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton by about 10,700 votes
out of nearly 4.8 million ballots cast in Michigan.  Stein alleges that
irregularities and the possibility that vote scanning devices could have been
hacked call the results into question. Elections officials in all three states
have expressed confidence in the results.

Michigan's recount could start as early as Friday, though a challenge to the
recount by Trump may delay it.

Meanwhile, Nevada election officials will recount ballots in five counties after
independent presidential candidate Roque De La Fuente requested and paid about
$14,000 for the effort.

De La Fuente finished last in the state but this week requested a recount in
Nevada, a state Clinton won. De La Fuente said he wants to counterbalance the
recount Stein requested in Wisconsin, which Trump won.

Nevada Deputy Secretary of State for Elections Wayne Thorley said if recount
results show a discrepancy of at least 1 percent for De La Fuente or Clinton, a
full state recount will be launched.

Pelosi re-elected

as House leader

WASHINGTON - House Democrats re-elected Nancy Pelosi as their leader Wednesday,
ratifying the status quo in a changing Washington despite widespread frustration
over the party's direction.

That disenchantment manifested itself in 63 lawmakers supporting Pelosi's
opponent, Ohio Rep. Tim Ryan, in the secret-ballot vote. That was by far the
largest defection Pelosi has suffered since she began leading House Democrats in
2002.

Still, the California lawmaker had declared ahead of time that more than
two-thirds of the caucus was supporting her, and she won  just about two-thirds
with 134 votes. It was a testament to her vote-counting skills and  her ability
to hang onto power even in dark days for Democrats, as they confront a capital
that will be fully controlled by the GOP next year.

Soldiers won't have to repay bonuses

WASHINGTON - Thousands of California National Guard troops will not have to
repay enlistment bonuses and benefits they received a decade after they signed
up to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan, according to a deal between House and
Senate negotiators.

The agreement is included in a must-pass defense policy bill filed Wednesday and
awaiting an expected House vote Friday, followed by action in the Senate next
week.

The Pentagon had demanded the money after audits revealed overpayments by the
Guard under pressure to fill ranks. But lawmakers are ordering the Pentagon to
waive the recoupment of a bonus unless there is evidence that shows service
members "knew or reasonably should have known" that they weren't eligible to
receive the money.

The Guard offered enlistment bonuses of as much as $15,000 and student loan aid
to nearly 10,000 soldiers at the height of the two wars in the 2000s. Members of
the California congressional delegation and veterans leaders expressed outrage
over the Pentagon's decision to force troops who had served overseas to return
money when they said the fault lay with military recruiters.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             529 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Draining the swamp? Trump's Cabinet picks so far are deeply tied to Washington,
Wall Street

BYLINE: Julie Pace and Josh Boak Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 010

LENGTH: 861 words


Analysis

WASHINGTON  - Donald Trump promised to "drain the swamp" in the nation's
capital. Instead, he's diving right in.

So far, the president-elect is tapping people with deep ties to Washington and
Wall Street as he fills out his Cabinet, turning to two power centers he
vilified as greedy, corrupt and out of touch with Americans during his White
House campaign. His choices have won praise from Republicans relieved by his
more conventional choices, but could risk angering voters who rallied behind his
calls for upending the political system.

Two of Trump's early picks are wealthy financial industry insiders with ties to
the kinds of institutions he railed against as a candidate. Elaine Chao, his
choice for transportation secretary and an accomplished political figure in her
own right, is married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell - blending
family and political power in a way Trump fiercely criticized campaign rival
Hillary Clinton for. Jeff Sessions, Trump's selection for attorney general, has
spent two decades in the Senate, and Tom Price, his health and human services
nominee, is a six-term congressman.

The gap between Trump's campaign rhetoric and his governing decisions is most
striking regarding his emerging economic team. On Wednesday, he announced that
he planned to nominate former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as his
treasury secretary and billionaire investor Wilbur Ross to lead the Commerce
Department.

As a candidate, Trump said Wall Street had created "tremendous problems" for the
country. He included the CEO of Goldman Sachs in a television advertisement that
accused global financial powers of having "robbed our working class."

Mnuchin and Ross also have financial links to Trump's White House bid, with
Mnuchin having led the campaign's fundraising efforts. Trump repeatedly bragged
that his personal wealth - he mostly self-funded his campaign during the
primaries - meant he would not be beholden to donors who might expect their
financial contributions to be repaid with powerful jobs or insider access.

"I can't be bought," Trump said during the campaign. "I won't owe anybody
anything."

Trump's transition team brushed aside questions about whether there are
inconsistencies between the president-elect's campaign rhetoric and his Cabinet
picks.

"These are experts who know how to win," spokesman Jason Miller said Wednesday.

By picking billionaires, as well as a smattering of millionaires, for his
Cabinet, Trump is asking voters to trust that privileged insiders can help a
stressed and dispirited middle class - even though he, like past presidential
candidates, promised he would change that dynamic. Few of his choices have
outwardly displayed much of a common touch. Many live surrounded by a level of
wealth that most Americans struggle to fathom - and prospered in recent decades
as many Americans coped with stagnant incomes.

Not only did Mnuchin once work at Goldman Sachs, but so did his father. After
leaving the investment bank in 2002, the Yale graduate pivoted into hedge fund
management and producing blockbuster movies such as "Batman vs Superman: Dawn of
Justice." Mnuchin invested in the wreckage of the housing crisis, scooping up
the troubled bank IndyMac and turning a $1.6 billion profit in under a year as
millions of Americans endured foreclosure.

Ross orbits a similar world as Trump, as both of them have luxurious homes in
Manhattan and Palm Beach, Florida. The billionaire investor bought up many
struggling steel, auto and coal firms in the industrial Midwest at a steep
discount and sold them for steep profits, even as factory and mining jobs at the
core of American identity disappeared.

Chao is the offspring of a Chinese shipping magnate, in addition to serving on
the boards of Wells Fargo bank, Dole Food and News Corp., the parent of Fox
News. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, the wealthiest of Trump's Cabinet
nominees thus far, married into the family that started the sales company Amway.

Trump and other Republicans spent months warning voters that a possible Clinton
administration would be lined with Wall Street insiders, campaign donors and
other special-interest hires. But GOP officials have raised no such concerns
about Trump's picks.

If anything, some Republicans appear relieved. Many of Trump's picks are cut
from a more traditional Republican mold and share the party's ideological
preferences, in some cases more so than Trump himself.

"The picks so far have been fantastic and well-received by Republicans and
conservatives of all stripes," said Cesar Conda, the former chief of staff for
Florida Sen. Marco Rubio. "Trump is unifying the party, which is essential to
getting his agenda enacted."

House Speaker Paul Ryan, a lukewarm Trump supporter for much of the campaign,
praised the economic picks Wednesday, saying he was "excited to get to work with
this strong team."

Trump is still weighing his choices for several Cabinet posts, including
secretary of state. Among the leading contenders: millionaire businessman Mitt
Romney, the 2012 GOP presidential nominee, and millionaire lawyer Rudy Giuliani,
the former New York City mayor.

swamp

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             530 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Wisconsin recount begins Michigan's faces challenge; Philly count starts Friday

BYLINE: Scott Bauer Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 289 words


MADISON, Wis.  - The tedious task of recounting Wisconsin's nearly 3 million
votes for president began Thursday with scores of hastily hired temporary
workers flipping through stacks of ballots as observers watched their every
move.

The action in Wisconsin could soon be duplicated in Michigan and Pennsylvania,
where Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein was pushing for recounts.
Donald Trump narrowly beat Hillary Clinton in all three states, but recounts
were not expected to flip nearly enough votes to change the outcome in any of
the states.

Philadelphia city commissioners agreed to recount some ballots cast there, but
rejected a forensic audit of how those voting machines work.

The commissioners, in a brief meeting Thursday, agreed to start recounting
Friday ballots in 75 divisions after Stein's campaign filed at least three
affidavits for each division.

The Wisconsin recount marked the first time in 16 years there was a
candidate-driven recount of a presidential recount. But it does not carry the
same drama as the Florida presidential recount of 2000, when the outcome of the
election between Al Gore and George W. Bush hung in the balance.

"This is certainly not Bush v. Gore," said Wisconsin's chief elections
administrator, Mike Haas.

Even so, the campaigns for Trump, Clinton and Stein all had observers spread
throughout the state to watch the process. The federal deadline to certify the
vote to avoid having the fate of Wisconsin's 10 electoral votes decided by
Congress is Dec. 13.

Trump on Thursday objected to a recount of Michigan's presidential votes, at
least delaying the planned Friday start of the recount there until next week.

The Board of State Canvassers will meet Friday to hear arguments.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             531 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Clinton, Trump aides meet, take part in shouting match Postmortem session
usually civil past 40-plus years

BYLINE: Karen Tumulty and Philip Rucker Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 014

LENGTH: 909 words


CAMBRIDGE, Mass. - The raw, lingering emotion of the 2016 presidential campaign
erupted into a shouting match  Thursday as top strategists of Hillary Clinton's
campaign accused their Republican counterparts of fueling and legitimizing
racism to elect Donald Trump.

The extraordinary exchange came at a postmortem session sponsored by Harvard
University's Kennedy School of Government, where top operatives from both
campaigns sat across a conference table from each other.

As Trump's team basked in the glow of its victory and singled out for praise its
campaign's chief executive, Stephen Bannon, who was absent, the row of
grim-faced Clinton aides who sat opposite them bristled.

Clinton communications director Jennifer Palmieri condemned Bannon, who
previously ran Breitbart, a news site popular with the alt-right, a small
movement known for espousing racist views.

"If providing a platform for white supremacists makes me a brilliant tactician,
I am proud to have lost," she said. "I would rather lose than win the way you
guys did."

Kellyanne Conway, Trump's campaign manager, fumed: "Do you think I ran a
campaign where white supremacists had a platform?"

"You did, Kellyanne. You did," interjected Palmieri, who choked up at various
points of the session.

"Do you think you could have just had a decent message for white, working-class
voters?" Conway continued. "How about, it's Hillary Clinton, she doesn't connect
with people? How about, they have nothing in common with her? How about, she
doesn't have an economic message?"

Joel Benenson, Clinton's chief strategist, piled on: "There were dog whistles
sent out to people. ... Look at your rallies. He delivered it."

At which point, Conway accused Clinton's team of being sore losers.

"Guys, I can tell you are angry, but wow," she said. "Hashtag he's your
president. How's that? Will you ever accept the election results? Will you tell
your protesters that he's their president, too?"

The session was part of a two-day forum that the school's Institute of Politics
has sponsored in the wake of every presidential election since 1972. Generally,
the quadrennial gatherings are frank but civil ones.

This year, in the wake of a brutal campaign with a surprise outcome, it was
clear  the wounds have not yet begun to heal.

Campaign officials lashed out at each other, and also against the media - which
neither side believed had treated it fairly.

Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook also acknowledged that her operation had
made a number of mistakes and miscalculations, while being buffeted by what he
repeatedly described as a "headwind" of being an establishment candidate in a
season where voters were anxious for change.

He noted, for example, that younger voters, perhaps assuming  Clinton was going
to win, migrated to third-party candidates in the final days of the race.

He and others also faulted FBI Director James Comey for deciding in the waning
days before the election to revive the controversy over Clinton's use of a
private email system.

Trump officials said Clinton's problems went beyond tactics to her weaknesses as
a candidate.

David Bossie, Trump's deputy campaign manager, taunted Mook: "You call it
'headwinds,' I call it self-inflicted wounds."

Clinton's campaign insisted, again and again, that their candidate had been held
to a different standard than the other contenders - as evidenced by the
controversy over her use of a private email system while secretary of state.

Palmieri  predicted  the email issue will go down in history as "the most
grossly overrated, over-covered and most destructive story in all of
presidential politics."

"If I made one mistake, it was legitimizing the way the press covered this
storyline," Palmieri said.

Mook added that Trump deftly used his rally speeches to "switch up the news
cycle."

"The media by and large was not covering what Hillary Clinton was choosing to
say," Mook said. "They were treating her like the likely winner and they were
constantly trying to unearth secrets and expose."

The strangest criticism of the media, however, was by Trump's former campaign
manager Corey Lewandowski.

His complaint: Journalists accurately reported what Trump said.

"This is the problem with the media. You guys took everything that Donald Trump
said so literally," Lewandowski said. "The American people didn't. They
understood it. They understood that sometimes - when you have a conversation
with people, whether it's around the dinner table or at a bar - you're going to
say things and sometimes you don't have all the facts to back it up."

Barry Bennett, the campaign manager for retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, said of
voters: "What they wanted more than anything else was strength, and Donald Trump
was supplying it every day."

Clinton consultant Mandy Grunwald had a darker interpretation, which she
expressed in an icy backhanded compliment to the Trump team: "I don't think you
give yourself enough credit for the negative campaign you ran."

Benenson, meanwhile, served notice that the election may be over but that the
battles it spawned are not.

"You guys won, that's clear," Benenson said. "But let's be honest. Don't act as
if you have a popular mandate for your message. The fact of the matter is that
more Americans voted for Hillary Clinton than for Donald Trump."

At which point Conway turned to her side and said: "Hey, guys, we won. You don't
have to respond. He was the better candidate. That's why he won."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             532 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Sanders' message: Keep fighting

SECTION: A; Pg. 015

LENGTH: 846 words


We hadn't seen Bernie Sanders in Philadelphia since last July, when he watched
his primary opponent, Hillary Clinton, win the Democratic Party's nomination.
Sanders joined the "Democracy Now!" news hour this week at the historic
Philadelphia Free Library for a wide-ranging discussion. "I am deeply concerned
about the future of American democracy," Sanders told the enthusiastic,
standing-room-only crowd. Millions of Americans voted for Sanders in the
primaries. He transformed the 2016 U.S. presidential election, inspiring and
engaging people with a progressive vision for the future, with little help from
the media.

The networks have engaged in endless "mea culpas" in the election's aftermath,
contrite about their reliance on faulty polls. Rarely do you hear a news
personality on television admitting that they failed miserably in covering the
Sanders campaign. The U.S. media effectively iced out a major party candidate
who consistently held the largest rallies, even without a media megaphone.

Donald Trump received blanket coverage. His every move, every tweet, almost all
his speeches were covered across the networks. The U.S. corporate media made
candidate Donald Trump. Estimates of the free airtime he received vary from $1
billion to as high as $3billion.

What about Bernie Sanders? The Tyndall Report analyzed major-network campaign
coverage in 2015. In over 1,000 minutes of national broadcast television airtime
devoted to all the campaigns, Donald Trump received 327 minutes, or close to
one-third of all the campaign coverage. Bernie Sanders received just 20 minutes.
Hillary Clinton got 121 minutes of campaign coverage, six times the amount
Sanders received. "ABC World News Tonight" aired 81 minutes of reports on Donald
Trump, compared with just 20 seconds for Sanders.

I asked Sanders what he did to warrant a full 20 seconds of coverage on ABC, and
he threw his head back, laughing out loud. "We had the misfortune of actually
trying to talk about the problems facing America and providing real solutions,"
he said, offering his take on the media's failure. "Trump was tweeting out about
how ugly or horrible or disgusting or terrible his opponents were, in really
ugly terms. Perfect for the media. That is a great 12-second sound bite. But to
talk about why the middle class is in decline or why we have massive levels of
income and wealth inequality can't be done in 12 seconds. And second of all,
it's not something that they are, frankly, terribly interested in." While the
media may not have been interested in Sanders' message, the voters were. Despite
the media blackout, Sanders won 23 primary contests and 46 percent of the
pledged Democratic delegates.

After President Barack Obama leaves office, Sanders may well become the most
powerful Democrat in the country, even though he is not technically a Democrat,
but an independent socialist. His success has catapulted him into the Democratic
leadership of the Senate. "I accept this responsibility as outreach chair with a
lot of trepidation, but also with excitement. The current approach clearly is
not succeeding, and we need a new approach ... to create a 50-state strategy.
That means we start playing ball in states that the Democrats have conceded
decades ago. But more importantly, we create a kind of grass-roots party, where
the most important people in the party are not just wealthy campaign
contributors, but working people, young people, people in the middle class." It
is also why he is supporting Keith Ellison's candidacy to be chairperson of the
Democratic National Committee. Ellison is the co-chair of the Congressional
Progressive Caucus and also happens to be the first Muslim member of Congress.

Sanders cautions against maligning all Trump supporters. "It would be a tragic
mistake to believe that everybody who voted for Donald Trump is a 'deplorable.'
They're not. These are people who are disgusted, and they are angry at the
establishment. And the Democratic Party has not been clear enough, in my view,
about telling those people ... that we are on their side."

Bernie Sanders has transformed his campaign into a group called "Our
Revolution," to continue organizing. "Where we are now is in a difficult
moment," he summed up as our Philadelphia conversation was ending. "But
throughout history, serious people have fought back. ... Think about 120 years
ago. There were children working in factories, losing their fingers. People
fought back. They fought to create unions. Think about the women's movement.
Think about the civil rights movement. Think about the gay rights movement.
Think about the environmental. Think about all of the hurdles that those folks
had to overcome. ... Nobody in this room or in this country has a right to say
'I give up.' You've got to jump in and start fighting."

Bernie Sanders has spent his life fighting for progressive causes. As the world
braces for the Trump presidency, Sanders shows no signs of slowing down.

Amy Goodman is the host of "Democracy Now!" Denis Moynihan is an author and
researcher.

Goodman/

Moynihan

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             533 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  Main Edition

In Brief Los Angeles officers cleared in Skid Row death of black man

BYLINE: From wire reports

SECTION: A; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 379 words


LOS ANGELES  - Three Los Angeles police officers who fatally shot a black
homeless man on Skid Row last year will not face criminal charges because they
acted in self-defense, according to a report released Thursday by the district
attorney.

Prosecutors determined  the shooting of Charly "Africa" Keunang was justified
because he grabbed a rookie officer's gun during a struggle that ended when he
was shot five times March 1, 2015.

"The officers' reasonable assessments of the threat posed by Keunang were as
grave and imminent as the officers perceived," prosecutors wrote in a memo.
"Keunang posed a high likelihood of killing officers and civilians at the very
instant that he was shot."

Overtime block  challenged

AUSTIN, Texas  - The Obama administration said it will challenge a federal
court's decision to block implementation of a regulation that would make an
estimated 4 million more higher-earning workers eligible for overtime pay.

The U.S. Labor Department filed a notice of appeal Thursday, the same day the
administration's rule had been set to take effect nationwide.

Twenty-one states sued to block the rule.

Last week, a federal judge in Texas issued an injunction suspending it to allow
for further scrutiny.

'Madam President' covers selling

NEW YORK  - Supporters of Hillary Clinton apparently still have a chance to get
a since-recalled commemorative edition of Newsweek that was set to be released
if the Democrat won the presidential election.

Pictures of the one-off issue featuring a photo of Clinton with the title "Madam
President" leaked before the Nov. 8 election.

The "Madam President" edition was  recalled following Clinton's loss, but many
copies of it are for sale on eBay and at least one is fetching bids of $200.

Obama lights tree for final time

WASHINGTON  - President Barack Obama on Thursday marked his final time lighting
the National Christmas Tree with a wish that Americans will care for the sick,
the hungry and the downtrodden this holiday season.

"It's a message of unity, and a message of decency and a message of hope that
never goes out of style," Obama said. "And it's one that we all need very much
today."

The lighting ceremony tradition began in 1923 and takes place in President's
Park, just south of the White House fence.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             534 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

Recount effort changes course Stein to seek federal order in Pennsylvania

BYLINE: Marc Levy Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 003

LENGTH: 604 words


HARRISBURG, Pa. - A Green Party-backed campaign changed its strategy to force a
statewide recount of Pennsylvania's Nov. 8 presidential election, won by
Republican Donald Trump, and said late Saturday night that it will seek help in
the federal courts, rather than the state courts.

The announcement that it would seek an emergency federal court order on Monday
for a recount came hours after it dropped a case in the state courts.

"Make no mistake - the Stein campaign will continue to fight for a statewide
recount in Pennsylvania," recount campaign lawyer Jonathan Abady said in a
statement. "We are committed to this fight to protect the civil and voting
rights of all Americans."

In the statement, Abady said barriers to a recount in Pennsylvania are pervasive
and the state court system is ill-equipped to address the problem.

Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein has framed the campaign as an
effort to explore whether voting machines and systems had been hacked and the
election result manipulated. Stein's lawyers, however, had offered no evidence
of hacking in Pennsylvania's election, and the state Republican Party and Trump
had asked the court to dismiss the state court case.

The decision came two days before a state court hearing was scheduled in the
case. Saturday's court filing to withdraw the case said the Green Party-backed
voters who filed it "are regular citizens of ordinary means" and cannot afford
the $1 million bond ordered by the court by 5 p.m. Monday. Green Party-backed
efforts to force recounts and analyze election software in scattered precincts
were continuing.

The case in Pennsylvania court has been part of an effort spearheaded by Stein
to force recounts in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, three states with a
history of backing Democrats for president that were narrowly and unexpectedly
won by Trump over Democrat Hillary Clinton.

A recount began Thursday in Wisconsin, while a recount could begin next week in
Michigan. Trump's victory in Pennsylvania was particularly stunning: The state's
fifth-most electoral votes are a key stepping stone to the White House, and no
Republican presidential candidate had captured the state since 1988.

Stein had said the purpose of Pennsylvania's recount was to ensure "our votes
are safe and secure," considering hackers' probing of election targets in other
states and hackers' accessing of the emails of the Democratic National Committee
and several Clinton staffers. U.S. security officials have said they believe
Russian hackers orchestrated the email hacks, something Russia has denied.

They have sought unsuccessfully in recent days to get various counties to allow
a forensic examination of their election system software.

Lawyers for Trump and the state Republican Party argued there was no evidence,
or even an allegation, that tampering with Pennsylvania's voting systems had
occurred. Further, Pennsylvania law does not allow a court-ordered recount, they
argued, and a lawyer for the Green Party had acknowledged that the effort was
without precedent in Pennsylvania.

The case also had threatened Pennsylvania's ability to certify its presidential
electors by the Dec. 13 federal deadline, Republican lawyers argued.

On Saturday, a GOP lawyer, Lawrence Tabas, said the case had been meant "solely
for purposes to delay the Electoral College vote in Pennsylvania for
President-Elect Trump."

The state's top elections official, Secretary of State Pedro Cortes, a Democrat,
has said there was no evidence of any sort of cyberattacks or irregularities in
the election. Any recount would change few votes, Cortes predicted.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             535 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Spokesman Review (Spokane, WA)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

Spokane had record ballots, but not record turnout

BYLINE: Jim Camden

SECTION: B; Pg. 002

LENGTH: 750 words


Spin Control

Spokane County certified its ballot results last week, which gives us the final
piece of the 2016 election puzzle: the turnout.

It was better than ever. And it wasn't as good as in some past elections.

Like most things in politics, it depends on how you want to spin it. Vince
Lombardi, Scotty Bowman or whoever really first said "statistics are for losers"
either forgot to add "? and political pundits" or figured that was a redundancy.

The 239,229 ballots cast are the most ever counted in an election in Spokane.
Yay for us.

The 306,261 registered voters are also the most ever signed up in Spokane. Yay
again.

But as a percentage of registered voters casting a ballot, it's not a record.
The number of voters voting did not grow as fast as the number of voters
registering. This year's 78.1 percent is pretty middling by historic standards
and lower than all the presidential elections since 2000, when the George W.
Bush  vs. Al Gore matchup enticed only 76 percent of the voters to cast a
ballot.

An analysis of the precinct breakdowns shows that all areas of the community
have more registered voters than the most recent presidential election in 2012.
Some areas had fewer votes, while others had significantly more.

Northeast Spokane precincts, those east of Division Street from the river to
Hillyard, had fewer people turning in ballots than four years ago. Some
individual precincts in cities and unincorporated areas also saw drops,
including the precinct that encompasses Fairchild Air Force Base.

Because the boundary lines have changed and some precincts get split as their
population grows, it's hard to make direct comparisons for all 355 precincts.
But it is possible to say,  compared to 2012, the city of Spokane Valley turned
in an extra 2,224,  un- incorporated areas of the Valley an extra 1,656 and
Liberty Lake an extra 948.

In the city of Spokane, downtown and the lower South Hill managed an extra 646
ballots, the upper South Hill an extra 1,187, the far northwest precincts an
extra 720 and the West Central to Division area another 720, thanks in part to
the growth in the precincts around Kendall Yards.

The rural areas in south Spokane County stayed pretty close to even.

Put another way - the way candidates and political parties are likely to see it
- registration in almost all precincts grew by a couple of percentage points,
while percentage of ballots turned in dropped. But turnout doesn't elect
candidates or pass ballot measures. Votes do. The precincts that traditionally
vote Republican turned in more ballots than those that traditionally vote
Democratic.

A map of the vote totals is available on the Spin Control blog.

We're No. 8

The state, too, had a record number of ballots cast but didn't have a record
turnout, for much the same reason.

Even though the state's turnout of 79 percent was below what election officials
hoped, it was eighth in the nation, Lori Augino, state elections director, told
a House committee last week.

At the bottom of the list were several states that didn't hit 50 percent,
including Texas, Indiana and Hawaii.

About 310,000 voters joined the rolls in 2016, pushing the state over 4 million
for the first time. Augino said the most popular way to sign up was online, with
registering when getting or renewing a driver's license a close second.

On to next year's campaigns

The Public Disclosure Commission wants some changes to the state's campaign
finance laws that might make some candidates happy. It told the House State
Government Committee it would streamline the reporting system to get rid of
current laws that require comprehensive spending reports on a calendar that
changes each year based on the date of the election, and requires reports seven
days and 21 days before an election.

That timetable is left over from the days when most reports were filed by paper,
and now most are filed online, PDC staff said. It could be streamlined to report
contributions weekly and expenditures monthly.

The commission also would like large contributions of $10,000 or more to an
initiative campaign to be reported within 24 hours by the donor, and within 48
hours by the recipient. And the state needs to remove the limit on large
contributions to ballot measures within three weeks of the election, because a
U.S. Supreme Court ruling made that unenforceable.

Spin Control, a weekly column by political reporter , also appears online with
daily items and reader comments, at www.spokesman.com/ blogs/spincontrol.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Spokane Spokesman-Review


                             536 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Tribune-Review (Greensburg, PA)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Hickton: "[#x2dc]We all should be extremely alarmed'

BYLINE: by ANDREW CONTE

LENGTH: 482 words


Americans should be "extremely alarmed" about the impact computer hacking had on
the presidential election, said former U.S. Attorney David Hickton.

Hacked emails released by WikiLeaks that were taken from the Democratic National
Committee and Democrat Hillary Clinton's campaign operatives should be treated
as stolen property, said Hickton, who President Obama in 2010 appointed Western
Pennsylvania's top federal prosecutor.

Hickton spoke to the Tribune-Review in his first interview since leaving office
at midnight Monday, becoming the first U.S. Attorney to resign after Republican
Donald Trump was elected president.

"There was a whole stream of incidents that, at least in the perception of the
public, were creating a side story. And when you look actually at how some
countries, including Russia, have tried to use the democratic process to achieve
their national aims ... I think we all should be extremely alarmed," said
Hickton, who plans to stay in Western Pennsylvania and remain involved in issues
that his office prosecuted, such as cybersecurity but also opioid abuse and
civil-rights violations.

"It's hard to think about David Hickton only in terms about Western
Pennsylvania," said Kristopher Rush, a technical director at the Software
Engineering Institute's CERT Division in Oakland. "He clearly had a national
impact and one would argue an international impact as well."

Under Hickton, the U.S. Attorney's office in Downtown Pittsburgh "" but which
covers 25 counties across Western Pennsylvania, including Westmoreland ""
prosecuted watershed cybersecurity cases that showed how a local jurisdiction
could take on an international issue, said Matt LaVigna, president and CEO of
the National Cyber-Forensics & Training Alliance, a nonprofit with offices in
Pittsburgh, New York City and Los Angeles.

"The cases that his office worked weren't the first cyber cases, but it would be
tough to make the argument there were bigger ones," LaVigna said.

Hickton's landmark cyber case led to charges against five members of the Chinese
People's Liberation Army. Two other high-profile cases "" bringing down the
GameOver Zeus botnet that had been used to steal more than $100 million across
the United States, and disrupting the Darkode internet crime ring "" involved
hackers in Russia, among other places.

Looking ahead, Hickton said he believes Trump has been too friendly with Russia
and perhaps too hard on the Chinese.

The United States and China must remain partners, and it would be a mistake to
ignore Russia as a cyber threat, he said.

"(Trump) certainly made statements about Russia that would concern me. And maybe
(those statements) shouldn't be taken seriously yet at this point because he's
not president and doesn't have all of the information," Hickton said. "We ought
not to be talking about Russia as if they're not an adversary because they
clearly are."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             537 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Herald-Sun (Durham, N.C.)

                               November 21, 2016

Trump, Pence mull potential of Romney, Mattis in Cabinet

LENGTH: 835  words


BEDMINSTER, N.J. -- President-elect Donald Trump said Sunday that he had "made a
couple of deals" after spending the weekend meeting with a long list of
potential administration appointees, but he did not reveal any more picks.

Trump and the vice president-elect, Mike Pence, did drop some hints. Pence said
that Mitt Romney was "under active and serious consideration" to become the
nation's next secretary of state. Trump said retired Marine Corps Gen. James
Mattis was an "impressive" prospect for defense secretary.

"I think we have some really incredible people going to be working for the
country," Trump said Sunday evening. "We really had some incredible meetings.
You'll be hearing about them soon."

Among the visitors to the white-pillared clubhouse Sunday were Kansas Secretary
of State Kris Kobach, billionaire investor Wilbur Ross and retired Marine Gen.
John Kelly, the former commander of U.S. Southern Command.

Between conversations, Trump revealed he was making plans for transitioning his
family. He told reporters that his wife, Melania, and their 10-year-old son,
Barron, would move to Washington when the school year ends.

And Trump turned to Twitter to share some of his thinking. In between criticisms
of "Saturday Night Live," the hit musical "Hamilton," and Democrats, he wrote
that, "General James 'Mad Dog' Mattis, who is being considered for secretary of
defense, was very impressive yesterday. A true General's General!"

The comments were indications that Trump is looking outside his immediate circle
as he works toward rounding out his foreign policy and national security teams.
On Friday, he named a loyalist, retired Gen. Michael Flynn, as his national
security adviser.

Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 GOP presidential contender,
and Trump exchanged bitter insults during the campaign, and Mattis has not been
considered a Trump confidante. The appointment of more establishment figures
could offer some reassurance to lawmakers and others concerned about Trump's
hard-line positions on immigration and national security and his lack of foreign
policy experience.

Trump told reporters Sunday that one of his most loyal and public allies, former
New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, was also a prospect for secretary of state "and
other things." Giuliani at one point had been considered for attorney general,
but Trump gave that job to Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama.

The businessman and president-elect also apparently was considering options to
lead the Commerce Department, meeting with Ross.

"Time will tell," Ross told reporters when asked if he wanted a post.

More meetings are on Trump's Monday schedule. His transition team said former
Texas governor and GOP presidential rival Rick Perry was expected to meet with
Trump on Monday.

But even as Trump and his team discussed pressing issues facing the country and
how to staff the incoming administration, the president-elect's Twitter feed
suggested other issues too were on his mind.

His targets Sunday included retiring Democratic leader Harry Reid. Trump tweeted
that incoming Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, another media-savvy New
Yorker, was "far smarter" than Reid and "has the ability to get things done."

Trump also complained that "Saturday Night Live," which thrives on making fun of
politicians, is "biased" and not funny. The night before, actor Alec Baldwin
portrayed Trump as Googling, "What is ISIS?"

Trump also insisted again that the cast and producers of "Hamilton" should
apologize after the lead actor addressed Pence from the stage Friday night,
telling the vice president-elect that "diverse America" was "alarmed and
anxious." Pence said on CBS's "Face the Nation" that he wasn't offended.

Trump started filling key administration positions on Friday, picking Alabama
Sen. Jeff Sessions for attorney general and Kansas Rep. Mike Pompeo to head the
CIA, signaling a sharp rightward shift in U.S. security policy as he begins to
form his Cabinet. Trump also named retired Lt. Gen Michael Flynn as his national
security adviser.

Trump's initial decisions suggest a more aggressive military involvement in
counterterror strategy and a greater emphasis on Islam's role in stoking
extremism. Sessions, who is best known for his hard line immigration views, has
questioned whether terrorist suspects should benefit from the rights available
in U.S. courts. Pompeo has said Muslim leaders are "potentially complicit" in
attacks if they do not denounce violence carried out in the name of Islam.

Pompeo's nomination to lead the CIA also opens the prospect of the U.S. resuming
torture of detainees. Trump has backed harsh interrogation techniques that
President Barack Obama and Congress have banned, saying the U.S. "should go
tougher than waterboarding," which simulates drowning. In 2014, Pompeo
criticized Obama for "ending our interrogation program" and said intelligence
officials "are not torturers, they are patriots."

Sessions and Pompeo would both require Senate confirmation; Flynn would not.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Associated Press
President-elect Donald Trump, center, and Vice President-elect Mike Pence,
right, pose with investor Wilbur Ross on Sunday at the Trump National Golf Club
Bedminster clubhouse in Bedminster, N.J.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Durham Herald Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             538 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Herald-Sun (Durham, N.C.)

                               November 22, 2016

Political Pupils

BYLINE: MICHAEL MELIA Associated Press

LENGTH: 671  words


HARTFORD, Conn. -- The incumbent governor ran on a kindness platform and is just
finishing up a year of public appearances and speeches. The candidates vying to
succeed her are focusing their campaigns on issues including homelessness,
recycling and bullying prevention.

Welcome to politics, elementary-school style.

Seven candidates are running to be the fifth-grade "kid governor" of Connecticut
in an election that seeks to spark deeper interest for all students in
government and civics, subjects getting less attention in American schools today
than in earlier decades.

Similar efforts have sprouted as education-focused nonprofits and schools aim to
prepare better-engaged citizens. Advocates say a need for more civic instruction
has been apparent for years but

see pupils/page a11

was highlighted by the low voter turnout and acrid tone in the presidential race
between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump.

"Effective civics learning promotes civil discourse. Effective civics learning
helps students develop the ability to discuss controversial issues respectfully.
That seemed to be in very short supply in the election we've just gone through,"
said Ted McConnell, executive director of the Campaign for the Civic Mission of
Schools. "Basic civics knowledge is wanting throughout our country."

After years of decline, many efforts are underway to restore the role advocates
say schools were intended to play in teaching students their rights and
responsibilities as citizens.

The decline in schools began in the 1950s and accelerated in the 2000s as
schools emphasized courses with more bearing on testing under No Child Left
Behind, McConnell said. Where high schools once taught three civics courses, he
said, it is generally down to one.

-- Illinois, which had been among less than a dozen states without a civics
requirement, required at least a semester of instruction for students to
graduate beginning this year.

-- Nonprofit groups such as Generation Citizen and Discovering Justice have
mobilized volunteers to help high school teachers run action-oriented civics
projects and teach the importance of good citizenship.

-- States including California, Connecticut and New York have updated their
social studies frameworks to put more emphasis on civics and participatory
skills.

In Connecticut, 4,400 fifth-graders from 45 cities and towns voted to choose the
kid governor. The program, which also includes in-class lessons about government
and engaging with community issues, was launched last year by the Connecticut
Public Affairs Network, with sponsorship by the state Department of Education.

The winner serves a one-year term. Responsibilities include developing a plan to
deliver on campaign promises, keeping up a blog highlighting other students'
efforts to make a difference, and making public appearances and speeches.

The current kid governor, Elena Tipton, 11, of East Hartford, was elected last
year on a kindness platform. She said she originally planned a campaign focused
on bullying prevention, but said that would be giving bullies the attention that
they want.

"The best part about it is that I get to go around and meet all these different
people and learn what they do to be kind," Elena said.

Research has shown that civics education, including discussions of current
events, increases the likelihood young people will vote, said Peter Levine, an
associate dean at the Jonathan M. Tisch College of Civic Life at Tufts
University. There also is evidence, he said, that when children are engaged,
their parents are more likely to vote.

The framework adopted last year in Connecticut urges schools to teach civics
throughout the curriculum, and not just in high school. A new initiative with
the secretary of the state's office will recognize schools that taught the 2016
elections in innovative ways.

Brian Cofrancesco, who runs the kid governor program, said it helps children
understand the democratic process and the value of their own voice.

"Kids are realizing," he said, "every vote really does matter."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Connecticut Public Affairs Network via AP
Elena Tipton, of East Hartford, Conn., poses Jan, 2 in the former governor's
office at Connecticut's Old State House in Hartford, Conn. Tipton, 11, was
elected as Connecticut's kid governor in 2015.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Durham Herald Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             539 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                  Mars Edition

Small town flips big for Trump

BYLINE: Virginia Black South Bend Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1755 words


KINGSFORD HEIGHTS -- It's a bright, sunny day, particularly for late November in
Indiana, and Steve Hand has moseyed down the street to chat with a friend
working in the yard.

The retired 76-year-old has lived in this southern LaPorte County town for most
of his life. Hand's parents were among the first drawn to the now-empty World
War II munitions plant that in 1940 inspired the U.S. government to create the
modest community.

It's nice here, he says, and quiet. People tend to know and watch out for one
another, and the only crimes are petty ones.

But things have changed, Hand laments, nodding down the street where too many
homes are in various states of disrepair. Some torn screens, some peeling paint,
some trash in the front yard, all mixed in with a series of neatly decorated
homes.

"There hasn't been a lot of growth in this town," he says.

Good-paying jobs are hard to come by now.

And younger people, he says, "want everything given to 'em."

So Hand, who says he's a registered Democrat in a county and a precinct that has
for decades leaned heavily Democratic, voted for Donald Trump.

And he voted against Hillary Clinton.

She lies about everything, he says. And she and the current administration have
proven unsupportive to police officers and veterans -- two groups Hand defends,
as a former volunteer deputy and a veteran in a family of former soldiers.

He read about Clinton's stances against veterans on Facebook, he says, although
he knows you can't believe everything you read there.

Although Trump has seemed to ease off a few of his campaign pledges since the
election, such as promises to repeal Obamacare and build a wall along Mexico,
"he's not perfect," Hand says. "Nobody is."

"You've got a right to change your mind," he says. "Everybody's got a right to
change their mind."

Voters in the Kingsford Heights precinct certainly did.

In 2012, 60 percent of voters in the precinct cast their ballots for President
Barack Obama. Four years later, Hand's was one of 458 votes -- nearly 56 percent
-- for Trump. The numbers were similar in the neighboring precinct of Kingsbury,
where 58 percent of voters backed Obama four years ago. But this year, the
precinct saw a dramatic flip: 61 percent of voters backed Trump.

The results confirm national and statewide trends showing a sizable number of
voters who cast their ballots for Obama in 2012 instead choosing Trump this
year. In fact, a Republican presidential candidate hadn't won LaPorte County
since 1988.

The Republican wave even left its mark in St. Joseph County, which traditionally
leans Democratic but where Trump garnered nearly half the votes this year.

Kingsford Heights' dramatic vote reversal says plenty about the frustrations and
struggles of an unusual town -- the types of economic struggles that drew people
to Trump in other Midwest states and helped catapult him into the White House.
But it also gives a peek into the political philosophies of rural Indiana.

Town born of war

As the United States prepared to enter World War II, the government opened
munitions plants around the country. The southern portion of LaPorte County,
flat and sparsely populated, was deemed an ideal site -- away from easy enemy
attack and home to significant railways and highways. If something were to go
horribly wrong during the delicate assembling of weapons, casualties would be
fewer there.

The plant, built in 1940 and 1941 over 20 square miles near Kingsbury, was one
of the largest such plants in the country and initially needed 10,000 workers.
So to lure more of them, the government platted a new town right outside the
factory gates: Kingsford Heights.

The town consisted of 2,600 dormitories, trailers and prefabricated homes.
Workers were attracted to the plant's higher-than-average wages. By May 1942,
one report says, the plant employed 20,785, nearly half of them women.
Minorities, too, moved into town to take advantage of the federal jobs.

Yet many of the workers, despite rubber and gas rationing, commuted from nearby
towns such as Knox and LaPorte.

In 1943, a Chicago newspaper called Kingsford Heights a "ghost town," outlining
what it described as a government failure and quoting a congressman from South
Bend who called for an investigation.

Almost $13 million was spent on the 530-acre development that included roads and
sidewalks, landscaping, utility plants and a still-unfinished school, the
Chicago Tribune reported. Yet only 218 residences were occupied.

"Few children were seen," according to the article. "The lights last night were
shining on deserted streets and rows of dark, empty houses."

After the war ended in 1945, production at the Kingsbury Ordnance Plant halted.
It resumed shell production for a short time during the Korean War in the early
1950s but then closed for good. Much of the KOP property now is a fish and
wildlife preserve, and some of it has returned to farmland.

Today, sidewalks that end in lawns or overgrown empty lots are reminders of
where prefabricated homes once stood, says Evelyn Ballinger, a lifelong
Kingsford Heights resident whose parents were original KOP workers. Many of
those government homes were later moved to cities like Gary and South Bend.

Ballinger, a frequent town board president who stopped by the town hall last
week to pay her utility bill, believes residents are struggling more financially
these days.

She and others still think Kingsford Heights is great place to raise kids, but
they know it has long been regarded as a high-poverty area.

"We've had that sort of stigma, and it's never left us," she said.

Many of the town's children have gone to college and become respected
professionals like doctors and researchers -- but they don't move back.

"When I was growing up, we were poor, but we had pride," the 76-year-old says of
her hometown. "You don't find that much anymore."

Ballinger is a Democrat, and she voted for Clinton. But as a poll worker this
year in the town's fire station, where the lines were so long they had to call
for another voting machine, she knew a lot more people were voting for Trump.

"I heard a lot of young people who were looking for a change," she says of those
seeking better education and jobs.

 'The wrong woman'

Economic factors were not the main motivations for Kingsford Heights voter Ivan
Meszaros.

The 43-year-old moved here two years ago from Cleveland for his job as a
mechanical engineer for Models Plus, a local company that makes plastic medical
models such as those found in doctors' offices.

He is a registered Democrat, he says, but his views have turned more
conservative over the years, as Democrats have increasingly attacked those with
other ideas.

"I don't think Trump's a perfect guy," Meszaros said, adding, "He's a loudmouth
and a narcissist."

But Clinton's decisions in Benghazi and Syria concerned him, and he hates
Obamacare. He'd rather pay his own medical bills out of pocket than to be forced
to buy an insurance policy. He was fined $800 last year for not having health
coverage, and he says he's prepared for an even larger fine this year.

"It's wrong for a government to compel me to buy anything," he said.

His fiance, Rachel Duncan, moved to Kingsford Heights a year ago to live with
Meszaros and her daughter. Duncan took a job as a consultant at Models Plus but
has since been laid off.

A "Hillary for Prison 2016" sign still hangs in the front window of their small
white home. Ivan is the one who made the sign, Duncan said. But she, too, voted
for Trump.

Trump "realizes all our jobs are being outsourced, and he'll bring back jobs,"
she said of a topic that hits close to home.

She leans toward Libertarianism, believing government has become too big and
invasive. And she worried about Trump's "forcefulness" but said Clinton was
involved in too many shady deals as secretary of state.

Does she hope a woman is elected president in her daughter's lifetime?

"I hope so," she responded. Voting against a woman "was the only thing that was
hard for me."

"But," she added, "Hillary was the wrong woman."

Scary times?

There's only one diner in Kingsford Heights, and on Wednesday last week, Renee's
Cafe was doing a steady lunch and carryout business.

Joyce Lile retired in September as manager of the elementary school's cafeteria.
The 74-year-old is sat at a table with her 24-year-old granddaughter, Melissa
Lile, and Melissa's 14-month-old daughter.

Joyce technically lives outside the town limits but still in the precinct. She's
lived here since 1963.

Some things have changed for the worse, she acknowledged. Most of the shops that
used to be here burned down and have not been replaced. People don't generally
afford each other the respect they once did. She knew it was time to retire when
you could no longer give a needy kid a hug at school.

Still, "the town doesn't get the praise that it should," she said.

Melissa, her granddaughter, lives just across the Starke County line, near Bass
Lake. Both women note that while Trump signs dotted the surrounding landscape,
Clinton political signs were nonexistent.

Joyce had intended to vote for Trump, although she disliked both candidates.
But, she says, something struck her when she set foot in the fire station to
vote: At the last minute, she went for Clinton.

"You voted for Clinton?" her granddaughter asked, astonished. "You voted for a
criminal?"

"It's still better than Trump," Joyce replied gently.

Besides, she told Melissa, accusations against Clinton were unproven, and Trump
is going to lead us into war.

"You do know we're pretty much in war now, right?" the younger woman asked her
grandmother.

"The younger generation," Joyce explained to a reporter, "hasn't been through
hard times yet."

Their political disagreements continued: Melissa thought Clinton would ban guns
and was in favor of "killing babies." Joyce doesn't want a gun, and she thought
some people jumped to conclusions about Clinton's stance on abortion.

Joyce didn't recall whom she voted for in 2012. But one of her sons married a
woman from Japan, and she worries now about their mixed-race children's safety.
She worries about a lot of things as she grows older.

Does Melissa, who voted for Obama in 2012, think we'll elect a woman for
president in her daughter's lifetime?

"God, I hope not. They're too bitchy," the younger woman said quickly. "Women
are just too prone to their emotions."

Maybe, she added more slowly, someday a woman could be president. If it were the
right woman.

But for now, she has no doubt that Trump is the man for the job.

Virginia Black: 574-235-6321

vblack@sbtinfo.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             540 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                  Mars Edition

These turkeys get special awards

BYLINE: Jack Colwell

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. C7

LENGTH: 650 words


With Thanksgiving almost here, it's time to present the annual Turkey of the
Year Awards.

Recipients may cry fowl. But even if they haven't been turkeys all year, each
winner has done something to merit this prestigious recognition.

The awards for 2016:

For campaign strategy, the Turkey of the Year Award goes to Hillary Clinton for
a rejected plea of "love trumps hate." Voters instead were deciding that Twitter
trumps email as they heard of messages the candidates sent.

A turkey for inadequate preparation for a sudden surge in website traffic goes
to Canada. It's website for immigration crashed election night.

In the last laugh category, Hoosier Democrats who laughed that Mike Pence was
ending his political career by joining the Trump ticket get the award.

For belated enthusiasm, a turkey goes to those among anti-Trump marchers who
didn't show such enthusiasm in leading a march to the polls, when enthusiasm
really counted.

Bernie Sanders, pushing a progressive revolution, gets a turkey award for
pushing Clinton too far left, with talk of free college and all, helping to keep
her from capturing the middle ground in Middle America, where Trump won to turn
the nation away from what Sanders wanted.

A Turkey of the Year Award is presented to Chris Christie for failing to bridge
the gap with Trump's son-in-law and losing all influence over transition.

In geography, the award goes to Evan Bayh, a former Hoosier resident, who
portrayed his home as actually back in Indiana.

Brian Kelly doesn't get a turkey. He already had one for far too long, four
games into the season as defensive coordinator.

Chicago sportswriters get a Goat of the Year Award for countless references to
the Cubs trying to beat a goat curse, something sportswriters created and
perpetuated for decades. The current players, oblivious to the whole nonsense,
won the World Series, not some Goat Curse Series.

The award in chemistry goes to Russian Olympic athletes.

In fiction, the winner is American Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte for his drama
about robbery in Rio.

The award for nonfiction goes to Megyn for disillusioning fans of Roger "Fair
and Balanced" Ailes.

Critics of South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg get a turkey for suggesting his
administration wouldn't complete "Smart Streets" work in time for smooth traffic
flow for the first Notre Dame football game. What? Really? Not yet? Well, in
that case, let's do a swing around the roundabout and give the turkey instead to
Smart Street Pete.

Mishawaka Mayor Dave Wood gets a Goose of the Year Award.

The Turkey of the Year Award in banking goes to Wells Fargo.

In law enforcement, the unanimous choice is FBI Director James Comey, denounced
by both sides in the presidential race for "rigging" that email investigation
and becoming the most politically involved director since J. Edgar Hoover.

The award for phone fireworks is presented to Samsung.

For care in the air, JetBlue gets a turkey for making sure 5-year-old Andy
Martinez was flown safely to a major airport. Except it was the wrong airport.
His mother was shocked when it was another little boy who came off the plane.
Andy was flown to Boston instead of New York, while the other kid, who was
supposed to go to Boston, landed in New York.

The award for seeking to free load on a cushy job at high pay goes to applicants
for Environmental Protection Agency administrator. Big salary. Big office. But
no staff, budget or regulations to worry about.

The Gobbler for Being a Squabbler goes of course to Donald Trump. Squabbling
didn't shake his supporters, just as shooting someone in the middle of 5th
Avenue wouldn't have.

For misplaced political faith, a Turkey of the Year Award goes to Jack Colwell,
who wrote confidently of Republicans: "They're not dumb enough to nominate
Donald Trump for president."

Jack Colwell is a columnist for The Tribune. Write to him in care of The Tribune
or by email at jcolwell@comcast.net

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             541 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                  Mars Edition

DONALD TRUMP AND THE DEBT

BYLINE: Jay Ambrose, Tribune News Service

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 587 words


Here is an issue where Donald Trump could fail as president and the country
would pay mightily: the federal debt.

He did refer to it during the campaign, saying his growth plans could whip the
problem, but some of his announced policies could actually exacerbate the
threat. They include leaving Social Security untouched, reducing taxes too much
and barreling ahead with spending plans.

Republicans will cower and Democrats will try to destroy him if he moves in some
right directions, but none of this diminishes what has been said by a host of
bipartisan sources. Right now, the debt is at $20 trillion, equivalent to
$158,604 per household and 75 percent of gross domestic product. It's expected
to go up to 84 percent of GDP by 2025 if Social Security and Medicare are not
adjusted. Here are some of the possible consequences as increases happen.

Stalled economic growth and likely the reverse. Much higher taxes. Wages
hurdling down. Investment crashes. Living standards flat on their back. Little
money in the budget for anything but entitlements. And finally, a fiscal crisis
shaming past ones as nothing much.

A major issue is Social Security, ready to zoom to madness as baby boomers start
retiring en masse even as Hillary Clinton, to mention a recent presidential
nominee, wanted to increase its benefits. She said she would pay for them -- not
the other increased costs -- through raising caps on the rich. Of course, if you
stuck to the Social Security formula that says the more you pay, the more you
get, that would not do a lot of good. Trump said he would not touch Social
Security, but it is already eating us up despite what many say.

They argue that Social Security is not now adding to the debt. Technically, that
is true. When Social Security revenues aren't spent immediately, they become a
surplus, meaning essentially that notations are made. When the money the money
is needed and spent, the notations are reduced.

All is thereby OK?

Not in the real world. The surplus is not cash is sitting around some place or
money being invested. Instead, the government spends like crazy on all kinds of
programs, far outreaching any available revenues and causing the debt to go up
enormously. When it comes time to take from the Social Security "surplus," the
debt is increased still more. In 2014, $74 billion was added to the overburdened
debt to pay off Social Security beneficiaries, and here are my questions to
naysayers.

If that money was not spent on Social Security, what was it spent on, and
doesn't this contribute to fiscal woes that could someday leave this nation
flattened?

What Trump should consider is measures that won't affect anyone less than the
well-off anytime soon. He could raise the cap but also redo the formula so the
rich won't get more benefits. He could curb growth by lessening the initial
amount given; right now, it increases so that someone this year who earned
$50,000 will usually get fewer benefits than someone next year earning the same.
He could raise the retirement age except for people in tough-labor jobs.

His repeal-replacement overhaul of Obamacare must reduce its costs
significantly, something that won't happen if he does nothing new about patients
with pre-existing conditions.

On his expenditures, such as redoing our infrastructure, he should seek out cuts
elsewhere to pay for them. He needs to restrict his trade protectionism to
cautiously revised details. He could maybe then get the economy up to 3 percent
growth, but that alone will not erase the debt problem.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             542 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Mars Edition

HOLCOMB'S IMPROBABLE JOURNEY

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 857 words


INDIANAPOLIS -- Having a beer in late 2014 with Eric Holcomb at the Old Point
Tavern below my office, I posed this question: Have you ever thought about
running for office yourself?

"Yes," Holcomb responded. Others had suggested the same thing. He had run for an
Indiana House seat in 2000, but lost. Beyond that, he had compiled an impressive
resume working with U.S. Rep. John Hostettler, Mitch Daniels in his first 2004
gubernatorial campaign and managing his 2008 re-election. He had been Daniels'
deputy chief of staff, Republican state chairman, and at this point was working
for U.S. Sen. Dan Coats.

When you get to know Eric Holcomb, now Indiana's governor-elect, you find an
enduring sturdiness wrapped around a fine sense of humor, and an inherent
optimism, all towering above a cool set of cowboy boots. You can have an
informed conversation with Holcomb about AC/DC (the rock band) or about
President Lincoln, at whose Illinois home and grave he spent part of his
bachelor's party.

As we talked about his own political future, he tells stories that hint at how
he constantly moves the ball up court. Retrieving ballot petitions for Gov.
Mitch Daniels, he found a cantankerous clerk down in southern Indiana, unmoved
by his mission. The office closed for lunch, Holcomb found a nearby florist, and
returned at 1:01 p.m. with a bouquet and a smile. Mission accomplished.

As the suds formed a final mustache on our upper lips, neither of us knew what
was in store. About three months later, Coats announced he would retire. Within
hours, Holcomb kicked off his U.S. Senate campaign, saying, "This campaign will
seek to attract people of diverse backgrounds and perspectives and experiences.
We will welcome and engage them. This campaign will be about Indiana's voice and
anyone who knows me, knows this campaign is going to have some fun along the
way."

He spoke these words just hours before Gov. Mike Pence would sign the Religious
Freedom Restoration Act that would eventually force him away from a 2016
presidential candidacy.

As we now know, that fateful week in March 2015 kicked in motion one of the most
improbable chapters in Hoosier political history. Holcomb's Senate campaign
never really found traction, but it did get the attention of  Pence when he
needed to replace Lt. Gov. Sue Ellspermann. Holcomb was his man. No one knew
that Pence himself would capture the attention of a billionaire mogul named
Donald Trump.

Had Pence not traveled to New York to retrieve that vice presidential bid on
July 14, a Trump ticket with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie on board might have
crashed and burned due to the conviction of two top aides in the "Bridgegate"
scandal.

With Pence going nationwide, Holcomb had his own tipping point moments.

Ten days after the Pence secured the vice presidential nod, Holcomb found
himself at historic crossroads. Never before had just 22 people held an Indiana
gubernatorial nomination in their hands as the Republican Central Committee did.
As the caucus date of July 26 neared, Holcomb had the big momentum. He had
nominated Pence at the Republican National Convention on national TV. He spent
much of the week at the Hilton Gardens Hotel near the Cleveland airport and on
the convention floor making his case, while U.S. Reps. Susan Brooks and Todd
Rokita did the same, sometimes just a few feet away.

When Holcomb, Rokita and Brooks drove back to Indiana that Friday, July 22, the
Holcomb team was expressing button-popping confidence. Pence had endorsed him
that Friday, as had Speaker Brian Bosma, Senate President David Long, and U.S.
Sen. Dan Coats, along with Marsha Coats, the national committeewoman.

There were rumors the campaign pushed that Holcomb had up to 16 votes when
Monday, July 25, rolled up, but other insiders were describing the process as
"fluid." Committee members seemed to be concentrating on the "electability"
question. Some were pushing for a Brooks/Holcomb ticket, a combination that
would be the best of the top two choices.

And then came Tuesday, July 26. The ultimate confirmation that Holcomb didn't
have it sewed up came when the first ballot took almost an hour, ending up 11
votes for Holcomb, nine for Brooks and two for Rokita. At least one Holcomb vote
didn't materialize.

Chairman Jeff Cardwell commenced the second ballot almost immediately, but
sources in the room tell me that in the brief interlude between the two ballots,
former legislator Dan Dumezich was in an intense conversation with Clark County
Sheriff Jamey Noel, an ardent Holcomb supporter, in a backroom corner.

The second ballot results were never released by Cardwell, but most believe that
Dumezich had switched his vote from Rokita to Holcomb, giving him the magic 12th
vote.

Gov.-elect Eric Holcomb spent 2015 and 2016 meeting and convincing Hoosiers he
was the real deal. He tried to shoot a basketball in every high school arena in
the state. When he hit that three-pointer at the buzzer last July his improbable
journey will make him Indiana's 51st governor next January.

The columnist is publisher of Howey Politics Indiana at www.howeypolitics.com.
Find him on Facebook and Twitter @hwypol.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             543 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Mars Edition

Voter suppression takes many different forms

BYLINE: William O'Rourke

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 731 words


Voter suppression is the big, somewhat neglected, story of the 2016 election,
insofar as that phenomenon is what caused Hillary Clinton to lose and Donald
Trump to win. And it wasn't just the well-planned and rigorous voter suppression
being carried out by Republican-controlled states throughout the nation, photo
IDs, exaggerated myths of the fraudulent individual voters, fewer places and
days to vote, etc., but a more insidious sort, a byproduct of negative ads and
the atmospherics of disenfranchisement.

What the Republicans succeeded doing was to trumpet Clinton's shortcomings and,
more cunningly, they helped raise Donald Trump's negative ratings, too.

Indiana was a test case for this, given all the attack television advertising
aimed at the Senate and governor race. Hard to count all the faults of both the
Republican and Democrat candidates viewers were exposed to: Whoever was to be
elected was already branded a crook, a criminal, or worse. Unfortunately, most
of these ads were accurate.

In the presidential race, the statistic the media most often repeated, either
wittingly or unwittingly becoming co-conspirators to suppress the vote, was both
Trump's and Clinton's "unfavorable" ratings, higher than any other candidates in
history, commentators crowed.

The general distaste for both Trump and Clinton was promoted relentlessly over
the course of the campaign and had its effects, both intended and accidental.
Clinton's own weaknesses played into this version of events, as did the
outstanding boorishness of Trump. Weirdly, the "high-road" behavior of President
Obama and the first lady drove up the contrast between themselves and those
vying for the office.

The result of the 2016 election had a variety of causes, but voter suppression
proved crucial. The distribution of the votes echoed the 2000 contested
election: It's cities vs. country, college towns vs. rural towns. Clinton, like
Al Gore, insofar won the popular vote. The enthusiasm gap between the contenders
reared its head. A lot of people tried to deny it existed. This election may, or
may not, be the last hurrah for a couple of generations of white folk. What do I
think? As Jesus purportedly said on the cross while soldiers cast lots and
divided up his garments: "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do."

Yes, we live in a divided America. But, as Bernie Sanders showed in the
primaries, dividing garments and casting lots was in vogue.

But, unlike the Bush vs. Gore contest, the 2016 campaign itself suppressed the
vote. The statistics are now just starting to come out that prove the point.
Trump barely received more votes winning than Mitt Romney received losing. That
could only happen in an election where the chief attribute was voter
suppression.

Americans tend to suppress the vote in any case, since barely half even bother
to vote. But, in addition to those tendencies, this time there was a certain
sort of not voting that led to the outcome. In Michigan, some 20,000 voters who
did vote skipped voting for any candidate for president.

This sort of thing has happened before and I wrote about it in my book on the
1996 presidential campaign. In the race for the Senate in New York state in Bill
Clinton's first win in 1992 tens of thousands of voters did not vote for anyone
for senator in that election. The reason was the Democratic primary had been so
cantankerous and ugly that voters, mainly women -- that primary was full of
women candidates (Geraldine Ferraro, Liz Holtzman) and the eventual winner,
Robert Abrams, was wounded by winning -- voted for neither candidate. Alfonse
D'Amato, the Republican incumbent, won narrowly. Republicans retained the seat
because some Democrats felt aggrieved. Sound familiar? See Bernie's boosters.

After that contest, in an autobiography, D'Amato wrote, "A significant number of
liberals were so turned off by Abrams that they voted for Clinton and then did
not vote in the Senate race at all. I may not have won liberal Ferraro voters,
but Abrams lost many of them. As I learned...in a close election every vote and
every non-vote counts."

I am sure the non-vote count in the 2016 presidential category will be the
largest in modern history. Voter suppression takes all forms and we have just
witnessed the pernicious result of its success.

William O'Rourke is an emeritus professor of English at Notre Dame. He lives in
South Bend.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


                             544 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

How to make sure politics won't ruin your Thanksgiving

BYLINE: Kathleen Pierce BDN Staff

LENGTH: 744 words


Thanksgiving this year arrives at the end of a rancorous and divisive election.
Liberals are pulling their hair out with each new addition to President-elect
Donald Trump's team. And his supporters are gleeful that he's living up to his
promise to rattle the establishment.


Now, just over two weeks after the presidential election, where 48 percent of
Maine voters chose Hillary Clinton, versus the 45 percent who opted for Trump,
we are expected to get along and give thanks.


If gathering at the home of a cousin who supported the president elect, whom you
despised, or joining a pro-Clinton clan grappling with the implications, how do
you keep things from coming to blows?


"The overarching guideline is you are not supposed to get into a contentious
debate at a holiday meal," said Jodi R.R. Smith of Mannersmith Etiquette
Consulting, who travels the country helping professionals improve their conduct
and communication skills.


"Nowadays we are geographically so diverse we don't get to see our families as
much as we'd like to," she said. "For you as a guest to bring animosity and
rancor to the table is bad form."


In advance, Smith suggests the holiday host should set clear rules. The message:
Today is politics free.


"The host can say, 'We are leaving politics aside this year, so think of other
things to talk about,'" she suggested. Both the host and guest need to take
charge and understand their roles. "You are there to catch up, find out what's
new and connect with people. You are not allowed to get a into a debate while
eating," Smith said.


In other words, rage has no place at the table. Think of Thanksgiving as a break
from CNN headlines, polls, mean tweets and memes.


"The pre-election lasted 2Â 1/2 years. It was a down and dirty elections cycle,
so contentious and so emotional," Smith said. "Coming right before Thanksgiving
in a short November, everything is compressed.  It's too fresh. We need to let
things settle."


Whether you voted Democrat or Republican, male or female, conservative or
liberal, there are ways to prevent this day of food, rest, pigskin and thanks
from becoming a political football.


Carrie Riley, a public relations director in Portland, grew up in a family with
a strict "no politics, no religion at the table" rule. "You can talk in corners
while mingling over cocktails," Riley said. "But if you bring politics up over a
meal, "you will get a dirty look and be asked to leave the table."


Though opinions and religious beliefs are honored at her family gatherings,
"this year will be a good test," said Riley, who travels to New Jersey to be
with relatives she hasn't seen in a while. Like most of us who have blocked
opposing views on our Facebook feeds and haven't reached out to siblings who
backed the other candidate, she is unsure what political environment she will be
walking into.


"My father and aunt are of that old school, where you don't tell people who you
voted for," Riley, who voted for Clinton, said. "I have my suspicions."


But the 41-year-old is not about to push their buttons -- at least not while
passing the parsnips.


"I'm not going to a rally. I've chosen to be with family this year, and I'm not
going to change opinions," Riley, who lives in Falmouth, said. "I don't think
Thanksgiving and the holidays is the time."


For undergrads leaving the protective bubble of a college campus, emotional
intelligence applies when it comes to dealing with more conservative or liberal
friends and relatives.


"Use your judgement. Sometimes it's wise to lean in, sometimes it's best to lean
back and keep quiet," said Jeffrey Selinger, an associate professor of
government at Bowdoin College, adding that many students there are distressed
about the election. "Read the situation. There are different kinds of parents
out there, some may be hostile and have a temperamental outlook," he said.


The main thing, to avoid conflict that could ruin more than digestion, is to be
aware and be prepared for battle.


"Are you walking into a house where people are with me or have a different
worldview?" Smith asked. "I am looking to steel myself to be polite even if
provoked, before I get there."


That means, brush up on your small talk so you "don't default into politics when
it's still too raw," she said. "Arrive with nonpolitical topics of discussion,"
Smith said. "The only way we can come together is through some neutral
conversation, but at someone else's Thanksgiving table is not the time or the
place for strife."


Â

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             545 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Rage has no place at the table. Think of Thanksgiving as a timeout.

BYLINE: Kathleen Pierce BDN Staff

LENGTH: 744 words


Thanksgiving this year arrives at the end of a rancorous and divisive election.
Liberals are pulling their hair out with each new addition to President-elect
Donald Trump's team. And his supporters are gleeful that he's living up to his
promise to rattle the establishment.


Now, just over two weeks after the presidential election, where 48 percent of
Maine voters chose Hillary Clinton, versus the 45 percent who opted for Trump,
we are expected to get along and give thanks.


If gathering at the home of a cousin who supported the president elect, whom you
despised, or joining a pro-Clinton clan grappling with the implications, how do
you keep things from coming to blows?


"The overarching guideline is you are not supposed to get into a contentious
debate at a holiday meal," said Jodi R.R. Smith of Mannersmith Etiquette
Consulting, who travels the country helping professionals improve their conduct
and communication skills.


"Nowadays we are geographically so diverse we don't get to see our families as
much as we'd like to," she said. "For you as a guest to bring animosity and
rancor to the table is bad form."


In advance, Smith suggests the holiday host should set clear rules. The message:
Today is politics free.


"The host can say, 'We are leaving politics aside this year, so think of other
things to talk about,'" she suggested. Both the host and guest need to take
charge and understand their roles. "You are there to catch up, find out what's
new and connect with people. You are not allowed to get a into a debate while
eating," Smith said.


In other words, rage has no place at the table. Think of Thanksgiving as a break
from CNN headlines, polls, mean tweets and memes.


"The pre-election lasted 2Â 1/2 years. It was a down and dirty elections cycle,
so contentious and so emotional," Smith said. "Coming right before Thanksgiving
in a short November, everything is compressed.  It's too fresh. We need to let
things settle."


Whether you voted Democrat or Republican, male or female, conservative or
liberal, there are ways to prevent this day of food, rest, pigskin and thanks
from becoming a political football.


Carrie Riley, a public relations director in Portland, grew up in a family with
a strict "no politics, no religion at the table" rule. "You can talk in corners
while mingling over cocktails," Riley said. "But if you bring politics up over a
meal, "you will get a dirty look and be asked to leave the table."


Though opinions and religious beliefs are honored at her family gatherings,
"this year will be a good test," said Riley, who travels to New Jersey to be
with relatives she hasn't seen in a while. Like most of us who have blocked
opposing views on our Facebook feeds and haven't reached out to siblings who
backed the other candidate, she is unsure what political environment she will be
walking into.


"My father and aunt are of that old school, where you don't tell people who you
voted for," Riley, who voted for Clinton, said. "I have my suspicions."


But the 41-year-old is not about to push their buttons -- at least not while
passing the parsnips.


"I'm not going to a rally. I've chosen to be with family this year, and I'm not
going to change opinions," Riley, who lives in Falmouth, said. "I don't think
Thanksgiving and the holidays is the time."


For undergrads leaving the protective bubble of a college campus, emotional
intelligence applies when it comes to dealing with more conservative or liberal
friends and relatives.


"Use your judgement. Sometimes it's wise to lean in, sometimes it's best to lean
back and keep quiet," said Jeffrey Selinger, an associate professor of
government at Bowdoin College, adding that many students there are distressed
about the election. "Read the situation. There are different kinds of parents
out there, some may be hostile and have a temperamental outlook," he said.


The main thing, to avoid conflict that could ruin more than digestion, is to be
aware and be prepared for battle.


"Are you walking into a house where people are with me or have a different
worldview?" Smith asked. "I am looking to steel myself to be polite even if
provoked, before I get there."


That means, brush up on your small talk so you "don't default into politics when
it's still too raw," she said. "Arrive with nonpolitical topics of discussion,"
Smith said. "The only way we can come together is through some neutral
conversation, but at someone else's Thanksgiving table is not the time or the
place for strife."


Â

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             546 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Pantsuit Nation's founder refuses to be defeated by Clinton's loss

BYLINE: Bill Trotter BDN Staff

LENGTH: 951 words


BROOKLIN, Maine -- Just over a month ago, before Libby Chamberlain decided to
create an invitation-only Facebook group of like-minded Hillary Clinton
supporters, she was focused on her two young children, her life as a married
millennial in rural coastal Maine, and her career as a college counselor and
high school admissions director.


Now, she is attracting national notice as the founder of the skyrocketing, 3.7
million-member- strong "secret" Facebook group Pantsuit Nation. And she is
trying to determine how to sustain and channel the group's energy despite their
candidate's shocking defeat.


"I always felt very passionately that [Hillary Clinton] is a one-in-a-lifetime
candidate for president," Chamberlain said earlier this week, adding that
Clinton's qualifications--not just her gender--set her apart. Now, she said,
Pantsuit Nation has "shifted to taking the issues that were important to her
campaign and remain critically important to our members and making sure those
issues have traction and voice and organization going into this next
administration."


Sitting on a couch in her home nestled in the woods across the road from a
blueberry field, Chamberlain, 33, said she was an ardent Clinton supporter
throughout the 2016 presidential campaign. But it wasn't until Oct. 20, the day
after Clinton's final debate with Donald Trump, that she thought of creating
Pantsuit Nation.


After chatting online with a friend, Chamberlain created an invitation-only
group on Facebook where her friends could talk about why they were supporting
the former Secretary of State. Her friends could invite their friends, but
everyone had to stick to Chamberlain's edict: As an antidote to an often
poisonously hateful and divisive campaign season, all posts at Pantsuit Nation
had to be personal and positive. Attacks on anyone, Trump included, were
prohibited.


The Pantsuit Nation moniker was an homage not just to Clinton but to the
wardrobe choices women have faced as they have struggled for workplace equality,
Chamberlain said. She vowed online to wear a pantsuit when casting her ballot
for Clinton and encouraged others to do the same.


Chamberlain sent out a few dozen invitations on Oct. 20. Within hours, Pantsuit
Nation's memberships exploded.


By the time Chamberlain went to bed that night, the group had more than 1,000
members, she said. At the end of the next day, it had more than 24,000. By
Election Day, it had more than 2 million-- and added another 1 million on that
day alone.


By then, Chamberlain and her rapidly assembled team of moderators, who now
number 70, were screening thousands of submitted posts each day while trying to
motivate their membership to help get out the vote for Clinton.


And then, of course, Clinton lost. In her concession speech, Clinton made a sly
reference to Pantsuit Nation, thanking supporters who had "posted on Facebook,
even in secret, private Facebook sites."


Chamberlain said that after the election it took her awhile "to even feel like I
had my feet underneath me." But fairly quickly she decided that "Pantsuit Nation
was more important on Wednesday morning than it was on Tuesday morning."


Pantsuit Nation still has a role to play in promoting women's equality, she
said, and in supporting other groups that historically have faced
discrimination.


However, exactly what the group's future will be beyond its still-vibrant
presence on Facebook is unknown, Chamberlain said. She and the group's other
volunteers are exploring options and soliciting professional advice.


"We're very interested in forming a nonprofit," Chamberlain said, adding the
process usually takes six to nine months. "All the [organizational]
infrastructure we're building underneath us."


Whether Pantsuit Nation becomes a charitable nonprofit or takes a more overtly
political route -- as Emily's List does in bankrolling female candidates who
support the right to abortion and the Human Rights Campaign does in advocating
with equal rights for LGBTQ people -- has not been decided, Chamberlain said.


The group this week released a manifesto in keeping with Chamberlain's original
vision for the Facebook group of providing a upbeat, supportive forum for
feminists and people who have been marginalized. Sharing positive, inspirational
experiences on issues of public debate will remain a core aspect of Pantsuit
Nation's purpose, according to Chamberlain.


"We remain committed to the idea that storytelling is a form of activism. That
will continue to be our focus as a way to provide a platform for people to make
the political personal," Chamberlain said, adding that racial justice, equal
rights for women and LGBTQ people, immigrant rights and access to health are
among the issues important to Pantsuit Nation.


"When people speak from experience about those things, I believe that is how
change is made in our country," Chamberlain said.


Chamberlain said she has decided this week to quit her job in order to focus on
nurturing Pantsuit Nation -- in addition to parenting her two young children and
serving on the local school board.


She said she has not decided whether to join the Women's March on Washington
scheduled for Jan. 21, the day after Trump will take office. Pantsuit Nation is
not involved in organizing the march.


Chamberlain said she remains hopeful about the nation's future, especially in
light of the fact that Clinton won the popular vote.


"One of the things [Pantsuit Nation] has shown me is how strong we are in our
diversity," Chamberlain said. "When you look at a group of this size -- 3.7
million people -- and you see all of the goodness that is coming out of these
people and supporting one another and sharing their own stories, it is hard not
to be optimistic."


Â

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             547 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Trump right not to go after Clinton

LENGTH: 401 words


The nation ought to be relieved that President-elect Donald Trump has decided
not to press his campaign pledge to criminally investigate rival Hillary Clinton
for her handling of email while secretary of state and for the activities of the
Clinton Foundation. A drawn-out probe, fueled by Trump from the White House,
would invariably become a political circus, take on the overtones of vendetta
and deepen the wounds of the election. It would represent a continuation of the
reckless "lock her up" chants by Trump's campaign crowds, a mantra that
suggested a Trump administration would run roughshod over the rule of law.


It would also fly in the face of the conclusion already drawn by FBI Director
James Comey after a thorough investigation of Clinton's use of a private email
server while secretary of state. Comey said that no reasonable prosecutor would
bring a case against Clinton based on the available evidence.


With the presidential campaign ended, Trump seems to have concluded that the
legal pursuit of Clinton or former president Bill Clinton would be a legal and
political loser. "It would be very, very divisive for the country," he told the
New York Times on Tuesday. "My inclination would be, for whatever power I have
on the matter, is to say let's go forward. This has been looked at for so long,
ad nauseam."


But even in his welcome rethinking, it was not clear that Trump understands the
principle of justice insulated from political control. His statement contained
only a glimmer of recognition that, as president, it should not be for him to
decide whether criminal prosecutions are undertaken. The law enforcement system
and the U.S. attorneys who investigate and prosecute federal crimes are supposed
to be independent, free from interference by the White House or anyone else. The
president's role is to appoint an attorney general and set broad political
priorities.


In his career as a brassy and pugilistic tycoon, Trump often gave the impression
he saw the law as just another tool for advancing his personal interests or
retaliating against his foes. Once he sits in the Oval Office, he must behave --
and think -- differently. His apparent decision not to pursue Clinton is a step
in the right direction. It remains incumbent on Trump to show that he fully
accepts the U.S. constitutional mandate of impartial justice and a political
system ruled by law.


The Washington Post (Nov. 23)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             548 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

SATURDAY WEB: Monday, Nov. 28, 2016: Sen. Collins wrong to support Sessions,
Trump's worrisome picks, faith in America

LENGTH: 657 words


Faith in America


For many years, it has been my privilege and honor to play taps for several
patriotic events in Bangor: Memorial Day, Veterans Day, Pearl Harbor Day,
Remember the Maine Day and the anniversary of the Korean War armistice. I want
to share a deep feeling that I experienced this Veterans Day as the parade
wended its way through downtown.


When I arrived at my post at West Market Square, I sensed a difference in the
demeanor of the people lining the parade route. Most of the time, it's a
sociable crowd, with a spirit of celebration. But not this year. There was a
tangible hush, and the expressions on many faces seemed blank or apprehensive.


The presidential campaign, with all its bitterness and personal invective, has
set many citizens back on their heels. We are a nation divided in a way not seen
or felt since the national disillusionment over the Vietnam War. Perhaps most
disturbing is the all-too-obvious effort to avoid post-election discussions.


But we will find our voices again, and perhaps the rancor caused by the election
will awaken us from apathy and extreme partisanship, and the feeling of
helplessness will be replaced by a sense of ownership of our government and
people will demand full accountability of our leaders.


I have faith that nothing will harm us because we have been reminded of how we
have taken the precious gift of democracy so much for granted.


Hal Wheeler


Bangor


Collins wrong on Sessions


Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, the top contender to be attorney general in the
Trump administration, was recently backed by Sen. Susan Collins. Collins, a
Republican who entered the Senate with Sessions in 1997, called him " an
individual who works hard, believes in public service, and acts with integrity"
and would be "well qualified" to serve as attorney general.


Apparently Collins is not bothered by the fact that the Senate rejected
Sessions' nomination to be a federal judge in 1986, even with a Republican
majority, because of his racist record. Sessions has described the NAACP and
Martin Luther King Jr.'s Southern Christian Leadership Conference as "
unAmerican" and " communist inspired."


Sessions fought for years to preserve Alabama's separate but unequal schools
after desegregation, and as a U.S. senator he fought against advances in racial
equality, women's rights, due process for immigrants and voting rights.


As attorney general, he will be overseeing our Department of Justice, and he
will have broad powers regarding enforcing the country's laws. Please remember
Collins' endorsement of Sessions two years from now, when she is up for
re-election.


Diane Smith


Holden


What is America becoming?


Like many Americans, I'm concerned about what damage Donald Trump's presidency
may do to the common good of our country. While I believe we have an obligation
to give him a chance, I also feel a number of issues would bear close monitoring
from the start, not the least being his interim staff and his cabinet choices --
including his appointment of Stephen Bannon as his chief strategist and Sen.
Jeff Sessions as attorney general, as well as Myron Ebell, a climate change
denier, who is overseeing the transition of the Environmental Protection Agency.


Beyond that, I cannot help worrying about such issues as the future of Social
Security and Medicare, a tax plan that favors the rich and would significantly
increase the national debt, a discriminatory immigration policy, a pull-out from
the Paris climate accord, a foreign policy that appears chummy with Russia, and
a denigration of the free press. Many of these issues President-elect Trump has
promised to address in his first 100 days, a period that could see major
revisions in policy on these and other issues.


I urge our senators and representatives in Washington to act as a balance in
these unpredictable and scary times. We need to pay attention to what our
country has been and what it is in danger of becoming.


Richard Matthews


Phillips

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             549 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Monday, Nov. 28, 2016: Sen. Collins wrong to support Sessions, Trump's worrisome
picks, faith in America

LENGTH: 657 words


Faith in America


For many years, it has been my privilege and honor to play taps for several
patriotic events in Bangor: Memorial Day, Veterans Day, Pearl Harbor Day,
Remember the Maine Day and the anniversary of the Korean War armistice. I want
to share a deep feeling that I experienced this Veterans Day as the parade
wended its way through downtown.


When I arrived at my post at West Market Square, I sensed a difference in the
demeanor of the people lining the parade route. Most of the time, it's a
sociable crowd, with a spirit of celebration. But not this year. There was a
tangible hush, and the expressions on many faces seemed blank or apprehensive.


The presidential campaign, with all its bitterness and personal invective, has
set many citizens back on their heels. We are a nation divided in a way not seen
or felt since the national disillusionment over the Vietnam War. Perhaps most
disturbing is the all-too-obvious effort to avoid post-election discussions.


But we will find our voices again, and perhaps the rancor caused by the election
will awaken us from apathy and extreme partisanship, and the feeling of
helplessness will be replaced by a sense of ownership of our government and
people will demand full accountability of our leaders.


I have faith that nothing will harm us because we have been reminded of how we
have taken the precious gift of democracy so much for granted.


Hal Wheeler


Bangor


Collins wrong on Sessions


Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, the top contender to be attorney general in the
Trump administration, was recently backed by Sen. Susan Collins. Collins, a
Republican who entered the Senate with Sessions in 1997, called him " an
individual who works hard, believes in public service, and acts with integrity"
and would be "well qualified" to serve as attorney general.


Apparently Collins is not bothered by the fact that the Senate rejected
Sessions' nomination to be a federal judge in 1986, even with a Republican
majority, because of his racist record. Sessions has described the NAACP and
Martin Luther King Jr.'s Southern Christian Leadership Conference as "
unAmerican" and " communist inspired."


Sessions fought for years to preserve Alabama's separate but unequal schools
after desegregation, and as a U.S. senator he fought against advances in racial
equality, women's rights, due process for immigrants and voting rights.


As attorney general, he will be overseeing our Department of Justice, and he
will have broad powers regarding enforcing the country's laws. Please remember
Collins' endorsement of Sessions two years from now, when she is up for
re-election.


Diane Smith


Holden


What is America becoming?


Like many Americans, I'm concerned about what damage Donald Trump's presidency
may do to the common good of our country. While I believe we have an obligation
to give him a chance, I also feel a number of issues would bear close monitoring
from the start, not the least being his interim staff and his cabinet choices --
including his appointment of Stephen Bannon as his chief strategist and Sen.
Jeff Sessions as attorney general, as well as Myron Ebell, a climate change
denier, who is overseeing the transition of the Environmental Protection Agency.


Beyond that, I cannot help worrying about such issues as the future of Social
Security and Medicare, a tax plan that favors the rich and would significantly
increase the national debt, a discriminatory immigration policy, a pull-out from
the Paris climate accord, a foreign policy that appears chummy with Russia, and
a denigration of the free press. Many of these issues President-elect Trump has
promised to address in his first 100 days, a period that could see major
revisions in policy on these and other issues.


I urge our senators and representatives in Washington to act as a balance in
these unpredictable and scary times. We need to pay attention to what our
country has been and what it is in danger of becoming.


Richard Matthews


Phillips

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             550 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Monday, Nov. 28, 2016: Sen. Collins wrong to support Sessions, Trump's worrisome
picks, faith in America

LENGTH: 657 words


Faith in America


For many years, it has been my privilege and honor to play taps for several
patriotic events in Bangor: Memorial Day, Veterans Day, Pearl Harbor Day,
Remember the Maine Day and the anniversary of the Korean War armistice. I want
to share a deep feeling that I experienced this Veterans Day as the parade
wended its way through downtown.


When I arrived at my post at West Market Square, I sensed a difference in the
demeanor of the people lining the parade route. Most of the time, it's a
sociable crowd, with a spirit of celebration. But not this year. There was a
tangible hush, and the expressions on many faces seemed blank or apprehensive.


The presidential campaign, with all its bitterness and personal invective, has
set many citizens back on their heels. We are a nation divided in a way not seen
or felt since the national disillusionment over the Vietnam War. Perhaps most
disturbing is the all-too-obvious effort to avoid post-election discussions.


But we will find our voices again, and perhaps the rancor caused by the election
will awaken us from apathy and extreme partisanship, and the feeling of
helplessness will be replaced by a sense of ownership of our government and
people will demand full accountability of our leaders.


I have faith that nothing will harm us because we have been reminded of how we
have taken the precious gift of democracy so much for granted.


Hal Wheeler


Bangor


Collins wrong on Sessions


Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, the top contender to be attorney general in the
Trump administration, was recently backed by Sen. Susan Collins. Collins, a
Republican who entered the Senate with Sessions in 1997, called him " an
individual who works hard, believes in public service, and acts with integrity"
and would be "well qualified" to serve as attorney general.


Apparently Collins is not bothered by the fact that the Senate rejected
Sessions' nomination to be a federal judge in 1986, even with a Republican
majority, because of his racist record. Sessions has described the NAACP and
Martin Luther King Jr.'s Southern Christian Leadership Conference as "
unAmerican" and " communist inspired."


Sessions fought for years to preserve Alabama's separate but unequal schools
after desegregation, and as a U.S. senator he fought against advances in racial
equality, women's rights, due process for immigrants and voting rights.


As attorney general, he will be overseeing our Department of Justice, and he
will have broad powers regarding enforcing the country's laws. Please remember
Collins' endorsement of Sessions two years from now, when she is up for
re-election.


Diane Smith


Holden


What is America becoming?


Like many Americans, I'm concerned about what damage Donald Trump's presidency
may do to the common good of our country. While I believe we have an obligation
to give him a chance, I also feel a number of issues would bear close monitoring
from the start, not the least being his interim staff and his cabinet choices --
including his appointment of Stephen Bannon as his chief strategist and Sen.
Jeff Sessions as attorney general, as well as Myron Ebell, a climate change
denier, who is overseeing the transition of the Environmental Protection Agency.


Beyond that, I cannot help worrying about such issues as the future of Social
Security and Medicare, a tax plan that favors the rich and would significantly
increase the national debt, a discriminatory immigration policy, a pull-out from
the Paris climate accord, a foreign policy that appears chummy with Russia, and
a denigration of the free press. Many of these issues President-elect Trump has
promised to address in his first 100 days, a period that could see major
revisions in policy on these and other issues.


I urge our senators and representatives in Washington to act as a balance in
these unpredictable and scary times. We need to pay attention to what our
country has been and what it is in danger of becoming.


Richard Matthews


Phillips

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             551 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Monday, Nov. 28, 2016: Sen. Collins wrong to support Sessions, Trump's worrisome
picks, faith in America

LENGTH: 657 words


Faith in America


For many years, it has been my privilege and honor to play taps for several
patriotic events in Bangor: Memorial Day, Veterans Day, Pearl Harbor Day,
Remember the Maine Day and the anniversary of the Korean War armistice. I want
to share a deep feeling that I experienced this Veterans Day as the parade
wended its way through downtown.


When I arrived at my post at West Market Square, I sensed a difference in the
demeanor of the people lining the parade route. Most of the time, it's a
sociable crowd, with a spirit of celebration. But not this year. There was a
tangible hush, and the expressions on many faces seemed blank or apprehensive.


The presidential campaign, with all its bitterness and personal invective, has
set many citizens back on their heels. We are a nation divided in a way not seen
or felt since the national disillusionment over the Vietnam War. Perhaps most
disturbing is the all-too-obvious effort to avoid post-election discussions.


But we will find our voices again, and perhaps the rancor caused by the election
will awaken us from apathy and extreme partisanship, and the feeling of
helplessness will be replaced by a sense of ownership of our government and
people will demand full accountability of our leaders.


I have faith that nothing will harm us because we have been reminded of how we
have taken the precious gift of democracy so much for granted.


Hal Wheeler


Bangor


Collins wrong on Sessions


Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, the top contender to be attorney general in the
Trump administration, was recently backed by Sen. Susan Collins. Collins, a
Republican who entered the Senate with Sessions in 1997, called him " an
individual who works hard, believes in public service, and acts with integrity"
and would be "well qualified" to serve as attorney general.


Apparently Collins is not bothered by the fact that the Senate rejected
Sessions' nomination to be a federal judge in 1986, even with a Republican
majority, because of his racist record. Sessions has described the NAACP and
Martin Luther King Jr.'s Southern Christian Leadership Conference as "
unAmerican" and " communist inspired."


Sessions fought for years to preserve Alabama's separate but unequal schools
after desegregation, and as a U.S. senator he fought against advances in racial
equality, women's rights, due process for immigrants and voting rights.


As attorney general, he will be overseeing our Department of Justice, and he
will have broad powers regarding enforcing the country's laws. Please remember
Collins' endorsement of Sessions two years from now, when she is up for
re-election.


Diane Smith


Holden


What is America becoming?


Like many Americans, I'm concerned about what damage Donald Trump's presidency
may do to the common good of our country. While I believe we have an obligation
to give him a chance, I also feel a number of issues would bear close monitoring
from the start, not the least being his interim staff and his cabinet choices --
including his appointment of Stephen Bannon as his chief strategist and Sen.
Jeff Sessions as attorney general, as well as Myron Ebell, a climate change
denier, who is overseeing the transition of the Environmental Protection Agency.


Beyond that, I cannot help worrying about such issues as the future of Social
Security and Medicare, a tax plan that favors the rich and would significantly
increase the national debt, a discriminatory immigration policy, a pull-out from
the Paris climate accord, a foreign policy that appears chummy with Russia, and
a denigration of the free press. Many of these issues President-elect Trump has
promised to address in his first 100 days, a period that could see major
revisions in policy on these and other issues.


I urge our senators and representatives in Washington to act as a balance in
these unpredictable and scary times. We need to pay attention to what our
country has been and what it is in danger of becoming.


Richard Matthews


Phillips

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             552 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Monday, Nov. 28, 2016: Sen. Collins wrong to support Sessions, Trump's worrisome
picks, faith in America

LENGTH: 657 words


Faith in America


For many years, it has been my privilege and honor to play taps for several
patriotic events in Bangor: Memorial Day, Veterans Day, Pearl Harbor Day,
Remember the Maine Day and the anniversary of the Korean War armistice. I want
to share a deep feeling that I experienced this Veterans Day as the parade
wended its way through downtown.


When I arrived at my post at West Market Square, I sensed a difference in the
demeanor of the people lining the parade route. Most of the time, it's a
sociable crowd, with a spirit of celebration. But not this year. There was a
tangible hush, and the expressions on many faces seemed blank or apprehensive.


The presidential campaign, with all its bitterness and personal invective, has
set many citizens back on their heels. We are a nation divided in a way not seen
or felt since the national disillusionment over the Vietnam War. Perhaps most
disturbing is the all-too-obvious effort to avoid post-election discussions.


But we will find our voices again, and perhaps the rancor caused by the election
will awaken us from apathy and extreme partisanship, and the feeling of
helplessness will be replaced by a sense of ownership of our government and
people will demand full accountability of our leaders.


I have faith that nothing will harm us because we have been reminded of how we
have taken the precious gift of democracy so much for granted.


Hal Wheeler


Bangor


Collins wrong on Sessions


Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, the top contender to be attorney general in the
Trump administration, was recently backed by Sen. Susan Collins. Collins, a
Republican who entered the Senate with Sessions in 1997, called him " an
individual who works hard, believes in public service, and acts with integrity"
and would be "well qualified" to serve as attorney general.


Apparently Collins is not bothered by the fact that the Senate rejected
Sessions' nomination to be a federal judge in 1986, even with a Republican
majority, because of his racist record. Sessions has described the NAACP and
Martin Luther King Jr.'s Southern Christian Leadership Conference as "
unAmerican" and " communist inspired."


Sessions fought for years to preserve Alabama's separate but unequal schools
after desegregation, and as a U.S. senator he fought against advances in racial
equality, women's rights, due process for immigrants and voting rights.


As attorney general, he will be overseeing our Department of Justice, and he
will have broad powers regarding enforcing the country's laws. Please remember
Collins' endorsement of Sessions two years from now, when she is up for
re-election.


Diane Smith


Holden


What is America becoming?


Like many Americans, I'm concerned about what damage Donald Trump's presidency
may do to the common good of our country. While I believe we have an obligation
to give him a chance, I also feel a number of issues would bear close monitoring
from the start, not the least being his interim staff and his cabinet choices --
including his appointment of Stephen Bannon as his chief strategist and Sen.
Jeff Sessions as attorney general, as well as Myron Ebell, a climate change
denier, who is overseeing the transition of the Environmental Protection Agency.


Beyond that, I cannot help worrying about such issues as the future of Social
Security and Medicare, a tax plan that favors the rich and would significantly
increase the national debt, a discriminatory immigration policy, a pull-out from
the Paris climate accord, a foreign policy that appears chummy with Russia, and
a denigration of the free press. Many of these issues President-elect Trump has
promised to address in his first 100 days, a period that could see major
revisions in policy on these and other issues.


I urge our senators and representatives in Washington to act as a balance in
these unpredictable and scary times. We need to pay attention to what our
country has been and what it is in danger of becoming.


Richard Matthews


Phillips

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             553 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Monday, Nov. 28, 2016: Sen. Collins wrong to support Sessions, Trump's worrisome
picks, faith in America

LENGTH: 657 words


Faith in America


For many years, it has been my privilege and honor to play taps for several
patriotic events in Bangor: Memorial Day, Veterans Day, Pearl Harbor Day,
Remember the Maine Day and the anniversary of the Korean War armistice. I want
to share a deep feeling that I experienced this Veterans Day as the parade
wended its way through downtown.


When I arrived at my post at West Market Square, I sensed a difference in the
demeanor of the people lining the parade route. Most of the time, it's a
sociable crowd, with a spirit of celebration. But not this year. There was a
tangible hush, and the expressions on many faces seemed blank or apprehensive.


The presidential campaign, with all its bitterness and personal invective, has
set many citizens back on their heels. We are a nation divided in a way not seen
or felt since the national disillusionment over the Vietnam War. Perhaps most
disturbing is the all-too-obvious effort to avoid post-election discussions.


But we will find our voices again, and perhaps the rancor caused by the election
will awaken us from apathy and extreme partisanship, and the feeling of
helplessness will be replaced by a sense of ownership of our government and
people will demand full accountability of our leaders.


I have faith that nothing will harm us because we have been reminded of how we
have taken the precious gift of democracy so much for granted.


Hal Wheeler


Bangor


Collins wrong on Sessions


Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, the top contender to be attorney general in the
Trump administration, was recently backed by Sen. Susan Collins. Collins, a
Republican who entered the Senate with Sessions in 1997, called him " an
individual who works hard, believes in public service, and acts with integrity"
and would be "well qualified" to serve as attorney general.


Apparently Collins is not bothered by the fact that the Senate rejected
Sessions' nomination to be a federal judge in 1986, even with a Republican
majority, because of his racist record. Sessions has described the NAACP and
Martin Luther King Jr.'s Southern Christian Leadership Conference as "
unAmerican" and " communist inspired."


Sessions fought for years to preserve Alabama's separate but unequal schools
after desegregation, and as a U.S. senator he fought against advances in racial
equality, women's rights, due process for immigrants and voting rights.


As attorney general, he will be overseeing our Department of Justice, and he
will have broad powers regarding enforcing the country's laws. Please remember
Collins' endorsement of Sessions two years from now, when she is up for
re-election.


Diane Smith


Holden


What is America becoming?


Like many Americans, I'm concerned about what damage Donald Trump's presidency
may do to the common good of our country. While I believe we have an obligation
to give him a chance, I also feel a number of issues would bear close monitoring
from the start, not the least being his interim staff and his cabinet choices --
including his appointment of Stephen Bannon as his chief strategist and Sen.
Jeff Sessions as attorney general, as well as Myron Ebell, a climate change
denier, who is overseeing the transition of the Environmental Protection Agency.


Beyond that, I cannot help worrying about such issues as the future of Social
Security and Medicare, a tax plan that favors the rich and would significantly
increase the national debt, a discriminatory immigration policy, a pull-out from
the Paris climate accord, a foreign policy that appears chummy with Russia, and
a denigration of the free press. Many of these issues President-elect Trump has
promised to address in his first 100 days, a period that could see major
revisions in policy on these and other issues.


I urge our senators and representatives in Washington to act as a balance in
these unpredictable and scary times. We need to pay attention to what our
country has been and what it is in danger of becoming.


Richard Matthews


Phillips

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             554 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Ex-Portland real estate developer pleads guilty to making illegal campaign
contributions

BYLINE: Judy Harrison BDN Staff

LENGTH: 581 words


PORTLAND, Maine -- A former Portland real estate developer waived indictment and
pleaded guilty Monday in U.S. District Court to making $22,500 in illegal
campaign contributions to presidential candidates during the 2011 primaries,
according to the U.S. attorney's office.


Michael A. Liberty, 56, now of Windermere, Florida, admitted that between May
and June 2011, he made campaign contributions through nine employees, associates
and family members to the principal campaign committee of a candidate for
president, a press release issued Monday said.


The case appears to be the first time anyone has been prosecuted in Maine for
violating the Federal Election Campaign Act.


"Mr. Liberty has cooperated with the government in this matter, which involves
incidents that occurred six years ago," his attorney, Richard Zack of
Philadelphia, said Monday afternoon. "He has accepted responsibility for his
conduct and wishes to move on with his life."


Zack and Assistant U.S. Attorney Donald Clark, who is prosecuting the case,
refused to name which campaign received the illegal contributions.


Court documents also do not name the candidate, but in May 2011, Liberty
contributed $2,500 to Mitt Romney's campaign for the GOP nomination for
president, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.


Campaign finance laws limit individual contributions to a candidate to $2,500
during the primary election cycle.


Clark declined to comment on the case. It is the practice of the U.S. attorney's
office not to comment on cases until after sentencing.


Liberty remains free on personal recognizance bail. Conditions include his not
traveling outside the state of Florida without prior permission from an officer
with U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services in Orlando, Florida.


Under the federal sentencing guideline range the recommended prison sentence
would be between six and 12 months, according to the plea agreement. The
prosecution agreed to recommend a sentence at the low end of the guideline
range.


Liberty faces a fine of between $67,000 and $250,000, the plea agreement said. A
sentencing date has not been set but is not expected to take place until next
year.


In addition to his activity in presidential races, Liberty has focused on
elections in Maine, often in support of conservative candidates. In 2014, he was
the primary supporter of the Citizens for a Safe Cumberland County Political
Action Committee, which spent $100,000 on behalf of Michael Edes, who was a
candidate for Cumberland County sheriff. According to a 2014 article in the
Portland Press Herald, Edes was accused of coordinating with Liberty's PAC, but
the Maine Commission on Governmental Ethics and Election practices found no
evidence to justify an investigation.


Besides contributing to Romney, Liberty also has made campaign donations to Tim
Pawlenty, Bob Dole, George H.W. Bush, Bruce Poliquin, the Maine Republican
Party, Olympia Snowe, the Republican National Committee and others. He also
supported some Democrats over the years, including George Mitchell, Ethan
Strimling, John Baldacci and Joe Brennan.


At one point, according to a friendly 1989 profile in Yankee Magazine posted on
Liberty's website, Liberty was worth more than $300 million, money he made in
real estate and investments. Among his many holdings over the years was Oxford
Plains Speedway, and he has been more recently rumored to have shown interest in
Scarborough Downs, which is for sale.


BDN writer Christopher Cousins contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             555 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Ex-Portland real estate developer pleads guilty to making illegal campaign
contributions

BYLINE: Judy Harrison BDN Staff

LENGTH: 581 words


PORTLAND, Maine -- A former Portland real estate developer waived indictment and
pleaded guilty Monday in U.S. District Court to making $22,500 in illegal
campaign contributions to presidential candidates during the 2011 primaries,
according to the U.S. attorney's office.


Michael A. Liberty, 56, now of Windermere, Florida, admitted that between May
and June 2011, he made campaign contributions through nine employees, associates
and family members to the principal campaign committee of a candidate for
president, a press release issued Monday said.


The case appears to be the first time anyone has been prosecuted in Maine for
violating the Federal Election Campaign Act.


"Mr. Liberty has cooperated with the government in this matter, which involves
incidents that occurred six years ago," his attorney, Richard Zack of
Philadelphia, said Monday afternoon. "He has accepted responsibility for his
conduct and wishes to move on with his life."


Zack and Assistant U.S. Attorney Donald Clark, who is prosecuting the case,
refused to name which campaign received the illegal contributions.


Court documents also do not name the candidate, but in May 2011, Liberty
contributed $2,500 to Mitt Romney's campaign for the GOP nomination for
president, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.


Campaign finance laws limit individual contributions to a candidate to $2,500
during the primary election cycle.


Clark declined to comment on the case. It is the practice of the U.S. attorney's
office not to comment on cases until after sentencing.


Liberty remains free on personal recognizance bail. Conditions include his not
traveling outside the state of Florida without prior permission from an officer
with U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services in Orlando, Florida.


Under the federal sentencing guideline range the recommended prison sentence
would be between six and 12 months, according to the plea agreement. The
prosecution agreed to recommend a sentence at the low end of the guideline
range.


Liberty faces a fine of between $67,000 and $250,000, the plea agreement said. A
sentencing date has not been set but is not expected to take place until next
year.


In addition to his activity in presidential races, Liberty has focused on
elections in Maine, often in support of conservative candidates. In 2014, he was
the primary supporter of the Citizens for a Safe Cumberland County Political
Action Committee, which spent $100,000 on behalf of Michael Edes, who was a
candidate for Cumberland County sheriff. According to a 2014 article in the
Portland Press Herald, Edes was accused of coordinating with Liberty's PAC, but
the Maine Commission on Governmental Ethics and Election practices found no
evidence to justify an investigation.


Besides contributing to Romney, Liberty also has made campaign donations to Tim
Pawlenty, Bob Dole, George H.W. Bush, Bruce Poliquin, the Maine Republican
Party, Olympia Snowe, the Republican National Committee and others. He also
supported some Democrats over the years, including George Mitchell, Ethan
Strimling, John Baldacci and Joe Brennan.


At one point, according to a friendly 1989 profile in Yankee Magazine posted on
Liberty's website, Liberty was worth more than $300 million, money he made in
real estate and investments. Among his many holdings over the years was Oxford
Plains Speedway, and he has been more recently rumored to have shown interest in
Scarborough Downs, which is for sale.


BDN writer Christopher Cousins contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             556 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

How illegal campaign donations deepened the downfall of a Maine-made mogul

BYLINE: Darren Fishell BDN Staff

LENGTH: 1208 words


This week, a developer and entrepreneur once dubbed " Donald Trump with a Maine
accent" had a less auspicious brush with presidential politics than the
president-elect.


Gray native Michael Liberty, 56, pleaded guilty to making $22,500 in illegal
campaign contributions, which court documents indicate benefited Republican
presidential candidate Mitt Romney's 2012 campaign. Prosecutors are seeking at
least six months of jail time and penalties for Liberty, who faces sentencing
April 11 in federal court in Portland.


The possibility of jail comes at an already difficult time for Liberty. He
separately faces a charge that he lied to federal financial regulators,
allegedly hiding money in a company, Xanadu Partners LLC, to avoid paying most
of a $6 million penalty levied against him in an earlier fraud investigation.
Liberty denies those charges and any misrepresentation of his finances.


A close reading of court documents sheds light on the role of a longtime adviser
and business partner in Liberty's latest legal troubles. It remains to be seen
whether damage from his testimony is done.


Further investigation of Liberty's holdings has turned up both dirt and the
perception of dirt. But it's not clear exactly why and how deeply investigators
are digging into the finances of the young mogul, who turned controversial real
estate success into a vast array of business ventures in and beyond Maine.


Inside Xanadu


Liberty's trouble with the SEC stems from 2006 charges that he and others
misappropriated about $9 million in investor money, putting it toward personal
expenditures or investments.


Liberty faced a penalty of about $6 million, which regulators agreed to cut to
about $600,000 because Liberty reported a net worth of negative $30 million.
Liberty settled the suit without admitting or denying guilt.


Regulators say they now have reason to believe his financial disclosures were a
ruse, based on new evidence that includes emails and testimony from Liberty's
oftentimes second-in-command and more recent courtroom opponent, James G.
Stanley Jr.


Stanley stated Liberty didn't have a personal bank account, using corporate
accounts to make personal expenses and investments.


"[Liberty] didn't want the world to know anything [a]bout Xanadu," Stanley said
in a June 1 deposition.


"I was told not to disclose it to the SEC," he added.


Stanley's testimony stands near the heart of the SEC's new case, which argues
that Liberty should pay at least the full penalty for the 2006 charges, plus
interest, as he spent or disbursed about $25 million from Xanadu accounts from
2007 through 2010.


Liberty reported to the SEC that Xanadu was owned by a trust established for the
benefit of his children. The SEC claims Liberty said Xanadu had no value at the
time, but his attorneys argued that's not the case.


"The report did not list any specific information about the value or income
associated with Xanadu," his attorneys wrote in a response to the SEC complaint.


A long history


Liberty and Stanley have fought in court for years. Their business relationship
began to deteriorate in 2007, according to a Maine Supreme Judicial Court ruling
issued last year, dealing with a 2012 lawsuit Stanley filed for retirement
benefits from the Liberty companies. Stanley had worked for Liberty since 1987.


The state court battles detail a complicated intermingling of personal and
business funds at Liberty's companies, including personal money loaned to the
Liberty companies by Stanley and his wife. Such a loan was the subject of a
legal battle between the two, resolved last year in a ruling by U.S. District
Judge D. Brock Hornby in Stanley's favor.


That time together spans the bulk of Liberty's sometimes controversial career
and early rise as a real estate developer in Maine. He now lives in Windermere,
Florida.


"Depending on whom you talk to, Mike Liberty is either regarded as a Yankee
Horatio Alger story or else as an absolute symbol of what has happened to Maine
in the past decade, the ultimate opportunist and despoiler of the state, Donald
Trump with a Maine accent," said then-Portland City Councilor Pamela Plumb, in a
1989 profile of Liberty in Yankee magazine. "The truth may be somewhere in the
middle or a combination of both."


Early in his career, Liberty was a developer of the 91-unit Chandler's Wharf
condo project and two office towers at 100 Middle St. in Portland. He also was
an owner of the Oxford Plains Speedway. His later career has been defined by
founding the mobile payment startup Mozido, based in Austin, Texas.


Forbes magazine reported in June that the startup missed payroll multiple times
earlier this year and that a former director, Philip Geier, received subpoenas
from the Department of Justice and SEC related to Mozido's records.


In the charges against Liberty, the legal scuffles with Stanley loom in the
background.


Stanley's attorney Toby Dilworth said his client's June 2016 deposition
regarding Xanadu was related to recently settled litigation between Liberty and
Stanley. He declined to say more because of a confidentiality agreement.


Liberty's Philadelphia-based attorney, Jay Dubow, said he was unsure of the
reason for Stanley's deposition and was unaware of any connection between the
elections and SEC charges.


A possible link


Federal investigators and parties in the case did not disclose the reason for
the probe into Liberty's campaign contributions, or any connection between that
case and the earlier fraud investigation.


The U.S. attorney's office also did not identify the candidate or the people in
whose names Liberty made contributions. But information provided in the
complaints makes clear at least some of the parties in question, including
Stanley.


For one, the complaint specifies that the contributions were given only during
the primaries. In 2011, Liberty gave only to Republican primary candidates,
Romney and Tim Pawlenty.


The complaint also deals only with contributions of $2,500, the maximum that
individuals can give to a single primary or general election candidate under
federal election laws. Liberty gave the maximum amount to both candidates. The
complaint specifies that nine donations from Liberty's "employees, family
members and associates" made up $22,500 in contributions between May 13, 2011,
and June 1, 2011.


No other Maine donors made the maximum contribution to Pawlenty for that time,
according to campaign finance records. But 10 contributors from Maine did max
out to the Romney primary campaign. A few had clear connections to Liberty,
including Stanley.


The complaint specifies that an executive at one of Liberty's companies wrote a
check for $2,500 and got three other employees to write checks for that amount
to the unspecified campaign, for which they were later reimbursed.


Campaign finance records show Stanley, as CEO of The Liberty Group, contributed
$2,500 on the same day as Linda Swan, a property manager for Liberty Management,
and two apparent relatives of Liberty's.


The case has spurred questions at the state level, as well. In a blog post for
the Bangor Daily News on Friday, author and Maine People's Alliance
Communications Director Mike Tipping reported many of the same contributors
linked to Liberty donated to Gov. Paul LePage's 2010 election effort.


Â

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Bangor Daily News


                             557 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump flying in for Thanksgiving;
He's expected to arrive in Palm Beach County today or Wednesday.

BYLINE:  By George Bennett     Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 616 words


Donald Trump will spend another Thanksgiving in Palm Beach -- but this time
surrounded by heightened security as president-elect of the United States.

Trump's transition team confirmed Monday that Trump, a part-time Palm Beacher
since the 1980s, will be flying to Palm Beach County this afternoon or Wednesday
morning. The Palm Beach Post reported Sunday that the Federal Aviation
Administration had imposed major flight restrictions in the airspace around
Trump's Mar-a-Lago Club from today through Friday.

It will be Trump's first post-election visit to Florida, a state where Trump's
narrow win was crucial to his stunning upset of Democrat Hillary Clinton.

Trump's arrival on his private plane is not expected to disrupt scheduled
commercial flights in and out of Palm Beach International Airport, said airport
spokeswoman Lacy Larson.

Trump had Secret Service protection as a presidential candidate, but former
Secret Service Agent Dan Bongino said this week's visit will give county
residents and Trump's Palm Beach neighbors a preview of the stepped-up security
he'll receive as president.

"The president-elect is now getting the full Secret Service package," said
Bongino, a TV and radio commentator and former Republican congressional
candidate who was a Secret Service agent from 1999 to 2011. "You'll get a
general idea this weekend if you're a resident. This is like spring training --
you'll start to see the real players on the field."

From a security perspective, Bongino said, Mar-a-Lago is a better getaway spot
for Trump than his penthouse residence and office space in Trump Tower in
midtown Manhattan.

"Someone with the Secret Service is probably going to have a conversation with
him at some point and tell him Mar-a-Lago is his best option. ... It's not easy,
but it's easier than Trump Tower," Bongino said. But, Bongino added, "The Secret
Service gets paid by the taxpayer to secure the life of the president, not to
tell him what to do."

Trump has been meeting with advisers and potential appointees to his
administration at Trump Tower and, over the weekend, at the Trump National Golf
Club in Bedminster, N.J. It wasn't clear Monday whether he'll conduct any
transition-related meetings while he's in Palm Beach.

Vice President-elect Mike Pence will spend Thanksgiving in Mississippi, where
his son is stationed as a Marine.

Trump's Palm Beach plans include "hopefully eating some turkey," spokesman Jason
Miller said on Monday.

"As far as meetings and such, we haven't released a full schedule," Miller said.
He said Thanksgiving should provide "a brief break in the action" from
transition work. But, Miller added, "There's never too long of a break."

Trump's Monday schedule included meetings with U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard,
D-Hawaii, who stepped down from a Democratic National Committee leadership post
to support Bernie Sanders over Clinton in the Democratic nomination fight.

Gabbard, an Iraq War veteran and member of the House Armed Services Committee,
said she had a "frank and positive" conversation with Trump about her opposition
to creating a no-fly zone over Syria as part of U.S. efforts to combat the
Islamic State.

Trump also met with Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin, who according to Trump adviser
Kellyanne Conway is being considered to head the Interior Department, and with
former Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown, who indicated he is being considered to
head the Department of Veterans Affairs.

Trump's schedule also included meetings with former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, a
harsh Trump critic before abandoning his brief 2016 presidential bid, and former
House Speaker Newt Gingrich.

The Associated Press contributed to this story. gbennett@pbpost.com Twitter:
@gbennettpost

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             558 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

President-elect back in town; Carson again on Cabinet list

BYLINE:  By George Bennett     Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH


President-elect Donald Trump isn't expected to conduct transition-related
business while he visits his second home at the Mar-a-Lago Club for Thanksgiving
-- but a pair of potential Cabinet picks will be nearby if Trump changes his
mind.

Trump arrived shortly after 7 p.m. Tuesday at Palm Beach International Airport
for his first Florida visit since stunning Democrat Hillary Clinton in the Nov.
8 election.

Earlier in the day in New York, Trump met with Palm Beach Gardens resident Ben
Carson, the retired neurosurgeon and former Republican presidential candidate
who this past week appeared to rule out serving in the Trump administration.
Carson, an early Trump endorser after ending his own presidential bid, is now
giving "serious consideration" to serving as secretary of Housing and Urban
Development, Carson ally Armstrong Williams told The Palm Beach Post.

Trump, on his Twitter account, said Tuesday that he is "seriously considering
Dr. Ben Carson as the head of HUD. I've gotten to know him well -- he's a
greatly talented person who loves people!"

Trump also met recently with billionaire investor and Palm Beach resident Wilbur
Ross, who has been mentioned as a potential Commerce secretary. Ross' residence
is about a mile from Mar-a-Lago.

Presidential visits are not new for Palm Beach, but the town hasn't been a
temporary residence for a president since John F. Kennedy used to spend time at
his family compound on North County Road.

"The community is honored to have a sitting president using our town as the
winter White House," Palm Beach Mayor Gail Coniglio said. "By the same token,
our main concerns remain the safety, security and respecting the privacy of the
residents."

Palm Beach, where Trump has been a fixture since buying Mar-a-Lago in the 1980s,
is a Republican bastion in a heavily Democratic county.

Trump won 54.3 percent of the vote in the town while Clinton got 43.9 percent.
In precinct 7154, which includes his Mar-a-Lago Club, Trump got 63.9 percent of
the vote. Trump himself is registered to vote in New York.

Palm Beachers were more enthusiastic about Mitt Romney's candidacy four years
ago. Romney carried Palm Beach with 65.5 percent in 2012 and snagged 78 percent
in precinct 7154.

"I think Romney was more popular because he was more moderate," said Marie Hope
Davis, the president of the Palm Beach Republican Club. She said many on the
island were put off by Trump's "coarse attitude toward others and the way he
articulated it."

Also, Davis said, "A lot of Palm Beachers were very supportive of Jeb Bush
because of the loyalty to both President Bushes. That played a factor."

Trump repeatedly attacked Jeb Bush as "low energy" before Bush dropped out of
the GOP race for president. The former Florida governor refused to endorse
Trump.

While the buttoned-down Romney might have been more suited to Palm Beach tastes,
he lost Florida to President Barack Obama. Trump won the state by 1.2 percentage
points over Clinton, capturing Florida's coveted 29 electoral votes.

Republicans outnumber Democrats by a 47.6-to-23.6 percent margin in the town. In
Palm Beach County, Democrats have a 42.6-to-28.3 percent registration advantage.
Clinton carried the county with 56.6 percent.

After a closely fought election in which Clinton won more popular votes
nationally than Trump, a new Quinnipiac University national poll shows Americans
have doubts about Trump's honesty and temperament but believe he will be good
for the economy and protect the country against terrorism.

The poll of 1,071 voters, conducted Thursday through Sunday, shows 44 percent of
Americans have a favorable opinion of Trump and 46 percent have an unfavorable
view -- essentially a wash given the survey's 3 percent margin of error.

The 44 percent favorable score is Trump's highest ever in a national Quinnipiac
poll. The last time Quinnipiac asked the favorable/unfavorable question, in
June, Trump was viewed favorably by 34 percent and unfavorably by 57 percent.

Some other highlights of the poll:

* Fifty-two percent of voters say Trump is not honest and 57 percent say he's
not level-headed. Seventy-four percent say he's a "strong person," 74 percent
say he's intelligent and 56 percent say he has good leadership skills.

* By a 53-to-40 percent margin, Americans say Trump will take the nation in the
right direction.

* Fifty-two percent say Trump will help the economy and 66 percent say he'll
create jobs. Asked if they think Trump will lower their taxes, 45 percent said
yes and 48 percent said no.

* Asked if they think Trump will keep America safe from terrorism, 58 percent
said yes and 37 percent said no. But only 42 percent think he will defeat ISIS.

* Only 19 percent believe Trump will fulfill his pledge to build a wall between
the U.S. and Mexico and have Mexico pay for it, with 74 percent saying it won't
happen.

* Fifty percent do not think Trump will lower their health care costs, while 43
percent believe he will.

* Fifty-nine percent of Americans say Trump should give up his personal Twitter
account.

Staff Writer Julius Whigham contributed to this story. gbennett@pbpost.com
Twitter: @gbennettpost

post on politics

The latest on the Trump transition is at "Countdown to Inauguration" on
PostonPolitics.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             559 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

County vote strong at all levels of ballot;
'Palm Beach County is a voting county,' former GOP chair says.

BYLINE:  By Eliot Kleinberg     Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 687 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


It might have been a concern for everyone from Marco Rubio to the medicinal
marijuana people to the Palm Beach County folks who wanted an extra penny of
sales tax.

It's called the undervote. People voting in the contentious presidential race at
the top of the ballot but not bothering farther down.

Or, as some worried, the reverse; people looking at Donald Trump and Hillary
Clinton, both with high negative numbers, and deciding to skip that race and
just vote down-ballot.

But results show none of that happened.

Turnouts for all major national, state and local items on Palm Beach County
ballots were within about a five-point range, according to final tabulations
released this week by the Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elections and the
Florida Division of Elections.

Totals show 73.5 percent of registered voters cast ballots in the presidential
race and 72.4 percent in the U.S. Senate tilt won by GOP incumbent Rubio over
U.S. Rep. Patrick Murphy, D-Jupiter.

And in the contentious District 18 U.S. Congress face-off between Randy Perkins
and winner Brian Mast for Murphy's old seat, the Palm Beach County turnout was
even higher than that for president, 74.2 percent. Across the three counties
covered by District 18 -- Palm Beach, Martin and St. Lucie -- it dropped to 73.6
percent, still higher than for president.

Palm Beach County's turnout starts to drop off with the four statewide
constitutional amendments, which drew turnouts between 68 and 70 percent. The
countywide ballot question to add a penny to the Palm Beach County sales tax for
roads, buildings and schools drew 69 percent.

Two circuit judge races each drew around 53 percent and three spots on the
obscure Palm Beach Soil and Water Conservation District each drew about 50
percent, as did the votes to retain three Florida Supreme Court justices and six
jurists on the 4th District Court of Appeal.

"Going into the election, a lot of people were wondering if we'd see a roll-off
off the top -- people that skipped the presidential race and voted everything
else," Susan MacManus, political science professor at the University of South
Florida, said this week

As for the high turnout for District 18, "that was a really competitive race,
and everybody was clued in. Those candidates ended up meeting more people,"
MacManus said.

"I'm not at all surprised about the (U.S.) Senate and (District 18)
Congressional races," former Palm Beach County Republican Party chair Sid
Dinerstein said this week. "Palm Beach County is a voting county. Make no
mistake about it. We vote in municipals, we vote for judges, we vote in
runoffs."

Dinerstein had opposed the county penny sales tax, saying it amounted to a 17
percent tax hike. It was at the bottom of the ballot but nearly seven in 10
voters still filled in their choices.

"To get that far down and get that percentage speaks well for the county,"
Dinerstein said.

USF's MacManus said all three Florida races this year -- the March primary, the
August vote and the November general election -- drew more turnout than in past
years, if only by a couple of points. But she said presidential years
historically draw much higher turnouts than elections where the highest-profile
race is for governor.

The figures for Nov. 8 mean between 25 percent and 50 percent of people didn't
vote. That's not 25 percent to 50 percent of all eligible Floridians or Palm
Beach County residents. That's 25 percent to 50 percent of those who previously
had taken the time to register.

Even though it's easier than ever, with the option of doing so on Election Day,
by mail, or using Early Voting, people still have all sorts of reasons for not
voting, and the turnout numbers aren't that bad, MacManus said.

"The old saying is, 'You can register people to vote but you can't make them
vote,'" she said.

ekleinberg@pbpost.com Twitter: @eliotkpbp

KEEP UP WITH NEW ADMINISTRATION

The latest on the Trump transition is at "Countdown to Inauguration" on
PostonPolitics.com.

LOCAL NUMBERS

Percentage of registered voters in Palm Beach County who cast ballots in three
major races:

U.S. SENATE: 72.4%

PRESIDENT: 73.5%

U.S. CONGRESS

DISTRICT 18: 74.2%

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             560 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump qualifies for 4% tax discount;
President-elect pays more than $190,000 in county property taxes.

BYLINE:  By Wayne Washington   Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 501 words

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH


Donald Trump refused to release his federal income tax forms during his
successful run for the presidency, leaving voters to wonder how much he earned
and how much in federal taxes he paid.

But thanks to Florida's open records laws -- and an unusual tweet from the Palm
Beach County Tax Collector's Office -- the world knows that Trump paid property
taxes Monday on real estate he owns in Palm Beach County.

The president-elect coughed up a combined $190,667.73 for three pieces of real
estate he owns in the county, including the lavish Mar-a-Lago compound on Palm
Beach. Mar-a-Lago was responsible for $146,927.03 of that 2016 tax bill.

By paying the bills before the end of November, Trump qualified for a 4 percent
discount -- a point the tax collector's office (@TAXPBC) pointed out in a tweet
that read: "President Elect @realDonaldTrump paid #PalmBeach property tax bills
today, in time for 4% Nov. payment discount http://ow.ly/NYTy306BsOm."

Property taxes become delinquent on April 1. Those who pay by the end of
November receive a 4 percent discount. That discount drops to 3 percent for
those who pay by the end of December. It goes down to 2 percent for those who
pay by the end of January and to 1 percent for those who pay by the end of
February.

The tweet included a link to the tax collector's web site, which allows visitors
to type in the name of a property owner and learn how much that person paid in
property taxes. Such information is public in Florida, but it is unusual for the
tax collector's office to notify the public when an individual property owner
has paid his or her taxes.

Of course, the county hasn't before been the part-time home of the
president-elect of the United States since John F. Kennedy won in 1960.

Palm Beach County Tax Collector Anne Gannon, a Democrat, was a supporter of
former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, whom Trump defeated. Gannon
attended the Democratic Party's national convention in Philadelphia, where she
rounded up votes for Clinton.

Gannon said her support of Clinton had nothing to do with her decision to tweet
out that Trump had paid his taxes.

"I think it's fair game," she said of the tweet. "He is, after all,
president-elect of the United States. If (President) Obama was in my county and
paid his taxes, I'd tweet that out, too."

And later in response to a Palm Beach Post editor's tweet about the original
tweet, @TAXPBC tweeted, "@paulblythe @realDonaldTrump Regardless of political
affiliation, we encourage all PBC property owners to pay early and pay online."

Trump hasn't always agreed with the assessment of his properties in Palm Beach
County, which until a couple weeks ago, he was suing regarding Palm Beach
International Airport flight paths over Mar-a -Lago.

In the past, Trump, like other taxpayers, has availed himself of the assessment
appeals process overseen by the value adjustment board. Given that Trump has
already paid his taxes, it is unlikely that he appealed the assessment of his
properties.

wwashington@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             561 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Bondi could become Trump's drug czar;
Florida AG met Friday with the president-elect.

BYLINE:  By John Kennedy   Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 547 words


Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi did little to tamp down speculation that she
could be leaving to join the administration of President-elect Donald Trump
after the pair met Friday at New York's Trump Tower.

Bondi, a member of Trump's transition team, told reporters that she is "AG of
Florida, right now," underscoring her current post when asked whether she would
take a job in the new administration.

"I'm very happy being attorney general of the state of Florida right now," Bondi
said.

But her departure could knock over some dominoes in Florida, as possible
contenders angle to fill her coveted spot on the state's Cabinet.

Bondi has waited and watched as Trump has filled the two highest-profile legal
jobs in his administration with Alabama Republican U.S. Sen. Jeff Sessions for
attorney general and Don McGahn for White House counsel.

Talk of a possible Bondi post now centers on the White House Office of National
Drug Control Policy, the nation's drug czar.

Bondi has been outspoken in urging state and federal action against prescription
drug addiction, a problem Trump also called a "tremendous problem" and vowed to
address during his campaign for the White House.

Bondi is term-limited, with just over a year left as attorney general. If she
leaves sooner, Gov. Rick Scott gets to appoint her successor.

Serving as interim attorney general could be a good stepping stone for anyone
looking to capture the Cabinet post outright in 2018 .

Among possible Bondi replacements are Pete Antonacci, now executive director of
the South Florida Water Management District, but a former Scott general counsel
whom the governor earlier also tapped to serve as an interim Palm Beach County
state attorney. Antonacci was former Democratic Attorney General Bob
Butterworth's top deputy for years.

"He serves at the pleasure of the governing board (of the SFWMD)," district
spokesman Randy Smith said Thursday, relaying what he said were Antonacci's
comments when asked about the attorney general post. "And he loves his job."

Other names in the mix: Bondi's current chief of staff, Kent Perez; state Rep.
Jose Felix Diaz, R-Miami; former Department of Economic Opportunity chief Jesse
Panuccio; Tom Grady, a Scott neighbor in Naples and former head of Citizens
Property Insurance Corp.; and two legislative leaders, Senate President Joe
Negron, R-Stuart, and House Speaker Richard Corcoran, R-Land O'Lakes, who both
are considered long shots because they'd have to surrender top posts as
lawmakers.

First elected in 2010, Bondi was an early supporter of Trump and spoke at the
Republican National Convention in Cleveland.

During the presidential campaign, she came under fire for her acceptance of a
$25,000 campaign check for her own re-election run from the Donald J. Trump
Foundation shortly before announcing two years ago that she would not act on
complaints involving Trump University.

She spoke publicly about the matter for the first time in September, defending
herself for asking Trump for the money in the first place and for not returning
the contribution even after New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman filed a
lawsuit alleging fraud at Trump University.

Politics writer George Bennett of the Palm Beach Post contributed to this
report. jkennedy@pbpost.com Twitter: @jkennedyreport

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             562 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Fla. electors vow to stick with Trump;
Trump electors urged to change votes;
A furious campaign targeting Florida's 29 electors implores them to break their
oath to president-elect.

BYLINE:  By George Bennett   Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1247 words


The torrent of emails and phone calls and letters and the appeal to her religion
won't shake Florida presidential elector Robin Bernstein's support for Donald
Trump.

More than 4.6 million Floridians voted for Trump in his victory over Democrat
Hillary Clinton. But the only Florida presidential ballots the U.S. Constitution
recognizes are the ones that will be cast on Dec. 19 in Tallahassee by Bernstein
and 28 other electors whose usually obscure jobs are drawing heightened interest
this year.

Florida's electors are among 538 Electoral College members who will meet in
state capitals and Washington, D.C., on Dec. 19 to follow Article II, Section 1
of the Constitution and choose the next president. Trump, despite getting about
2.5 million fewer votes nationwide than Clinton, carried enough states to earn
306 electoral votes -- well beyond the 270 needed.

Florida electors have been the target of a furious lobbying campaign urging them
to break their oaths to support Trump. Electors from other states Trump carried
have been targeted as well, with a Michigan elector saying he has received death
threats and Idaho's secretary of state complaining about "insults, vulgar
language or threats" against electors.

Clinton's campaign is not involved in any efforts to contact electors in
Florida, said Scott Arceneaux, who was a senior adviser to the Clinton campaign
in the state and is executive director of the Florida Democratic Party.
Arceneaux said he doesn't believe the Clinton campaign is involved anywhere
else, either.

A group called "Flip the 37," for example, has published electors' contact
information and a sample letter to facilitate mass appeals to vote against
Trump. The "37" refers to the number of Republican electors who would need to
vote against Trump to deny him the presidency. The group describes itself as
nonpartisan and, while opposing Trump, says it is "doubtful" Clinton could get
elected in his place.

"For a couple days I was getting 1,000 (emails) a day ... I lost control of my
email," said state Rep. Joe Gruters, R-Sarasota, an elector who was Florida
co-chairman of Trump's campaign. When Gruters began sending automatic replies
explaining he would not change his vote, one emailer responded: "You're what's
wrong with this country. May Donald Trump one day rape your children. "

Jeremy Evans, an elector from Pensacola, says he called the Escambia County
Sheriff's Office after one caller who used a private phone number read Evans'
home address to him and told him a "special package" would be delivered there.

Bernstein, a Palm Beach resident, said her inbox has been filled with emails
urging her to dump Trump. Bern­stein said she's received phone calls as well,
including one from a woman who threatened to publish her contact information and
demanded to know "how I could, as a Jewish woman, support Donald Trump."

"I said it was very easy," said Bernstein, a charter member of Trump's
Mar-a-Lago Club who credits him with breaking Palm Beach tradition by opening
the club to Jewish members. "I've known him for 22 years and I've known him not
to be an anti-Semite in any way, shape or form. ... I'm thrilled. I'm honored to
cast my vote for Donald. I think he's going to be a great president."

Bernstein and the rest of Florida's electors were chosen by the Republican Party
of Florida and the Trump campaign with an eye on loyalty to the party and Trump.
A slate of 29 similarly partisan Democratic electors was in place if Clinton had
won Florida.

Aside from the fact that Florida electors tend to be party loyalists, state law
requires that each elector take an oath promising to vote for the nominee of the
party he or she is nominated to represent. Florida statutes do not, however,
specify a penalty for an elector who breaks his or her oath. Legal experts have
questioned whether laws penalizing "faithless electors" are constitutional.

The Constitution calls for the president to be chosen by electors from each
state. The Constitution specifies that the number of electors from a state shall
be equal to the number of U.S. House members and senators from that state. Each
state has two senators and Florida has 27 House members.

If no candidate gets 270 electoral votes, the GOP-controlled U.S. House of
Representatives would decide the winner, with each state delegation getting one
vote.

Thwarting a Trump presidency through the Electoral College "has always been a
long shot," concedes Brett Chiafalo, a Democratic elector from Washington who is
leading an effort to persuade Republican electors to vote for another candidate
or else abstain.

Chiafalo, originally a Bernie Sanders supporter, said his "Hamilton Electors"
group is not trying to make Clinton president.

"We are looking for an alternative Republican candidate. We don't believe
there's any path to Hillary Clinton becoming president. We do not expect 37
Republican electors to elect Hillary Clinton," said Chiafalo, a 38-year-old
computer network engineer.

Hamilton Electors takes its name from Alexander Hamilton, a framer of the
Constitution who argued in the Federalist Papers that choosing the president by
electors scattered across the states rather than a raw popular vote would guard
against the selection of an unfit president who might sway the masses through
"(t)alents for low intrigue, and the little arts of popularity."

Unlike Flip the 37, Hamilton Electors is "actively discouraging" efforts to
blanket electors with calls and emails "because we don't want them to be
harassed," Chiafalo said. Instead, he and other electors are making personal
appeals to fellow electors, arguing that they are not bound by the popular vote
in their states and have the constitutional right to vote their consciences.

Chiafalo announced shortly before the Nov. 8 election that he might not cast a
ballot as a presidential elector for Clinton. At the time, he expected Clinton
to win handily and figured his vote wouldn't affect the outcome.

"I wanted to point out that we had a constitutional right ... I was never going
to flip an election. I was going to vote for Hillary if it was close," Chiafalo
said. Still, he said, "I got plenty of harassment. I didn't like it. I got death
threats. I got people saying I was a traitor."

Chiafalo said his group is focusing on electors from Texas, Ohio and Utah --
states Trump carried in the general election but that voted for other
Republicans in the primaries -- as well as Pennsylvania, where state law does
not attempt to bind electors to the winner of the popular vote in the state.

Florida is not a priority, Chiafalo said, because its electors were chosen by
"party elders" and are considered unlikely to desert Trump.

gbennett@pbpost.com Twitter: @gbennettpost

GEORGE BENNETT:

PRESIDENT-ELECT

TRUMP REPORTER

Longtime Post writer George Bennett will report on President-elect Donald Trump
during the transition -- and beyond.

For more about George and his history covering politics and Trump, see page A17
.

GEORGE BENNETT: MEET THE POST'S

PRESIDENT-ELECT TRUMP REPORTER

Veteran political reporter George Bennett will lead The Post's coverage of
Donald Trump's transition from Palm Beach fixture to president of the United
States.

Bennett, a Palm Beach Post reporter since 1992, has covered the 2000
presidential recount and five political conventions, including those this year
in Cleveland and Philadelphia.

During the 2016 presidential race, he reported from the campaign trail in Iowa,
New Hampshire and Wisconsin, as well as Florida.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             563 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Dems should resist urge to go farther left

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 651 words


Democrats are afraid, and not just of President-elect Donald Trump.

After years spent preparing for a Clinton presidency under the illusion that
culture war politics conquered all, they now fear that Republicans - who control
32 state legislatures and counting - will act as if their only opposition clings
to a strip of coastline along the Atlantic and the Pacific. But in the Golden
State, where Democrats reign supreme, a parallel universe is setting in. Rather
than moderating their rule to encourage Republicans nationwide to seek common
ground, California Democrats want to make their state more of a leftist utopia
than ever.

This is a mistake. California provides Democrats with a badly needed safe space
to show they can govern without being captive to the culturally revolutionary
vanguard that has pushed so many voters into the arms of Trump's GOP.

If Democrats want to make a credible case that Republicans should exercise
magnanimity and restraint over the next four years as they set a national policy
agenda, they should refocus on a broadly appealing agenda that pays heed to
California's dwindling middle class and its pinched working class. The
old-fashioned circumspection of Gov. Jerry Brown should be more of a model going
forward than the cutting-edge, aggressive progressivism of Gavin Newsom or
Kamala Harris.

Certainly, California is already one of the most socially liberal states in the
union. But, as its many libertarians can attest, the accommodating and
permissive spirit that has worked best for California has largely been an
organic one, rising up from residents' progressively shifting habits and mores.
Meanwhile, enforced, top-down "liberalism" has mostly sown intractable conflict,
squandering valuable time and energy on matters that hardly bear on the basic
hallmarks of successful governance: a robust economy, judicious lawmaking and a
society with a healthy, stable middle tier of producers, consumers and
neighbors. Democrats should have anticipated the disappointments of a rainbow
coalition built around an identity politics of grievance, even if, in
California's parallel universe, rose-colored glasses made it difficult.

But recent news reports have revealed that one leading Democrat did push for a
different approach - Bill Clinton, the man responsible for his party's return
from narrow margins in national politics after three consecutive Republican
administrations. Clinton "repeatedly pushed his wife's campaign to do more
outreach to economically distressed white communities by prioritizing her
populist economic message," as Vanity Fair has noted. "But her advisors refused,
believing that Hillary would do better by appealing to minorities and
college-educated suburban voters."

He begged in vain for his wife to accept an invitation to address a St.
Patrick's Day event at the University of Notre Dame. "But Mrs. Clinton's
campaign refused, explaining to the organizers that white Catholics were not the
audience she needed to spend time reaching out to," the New York Times recently
reported.

White, working-class voters who broke for Obama flipped to Trump and the GOP
across the Rust Belt, deciding the election.

Democrats who want to regain the trust of those Obama voters have much work to
do in the Midwest states that turned against them this year. But the real proof
of a party-wide rethink will have to come from the deepest blue states, and no
blue state is more Democratic than California.

Gov. Brown has hardly governed as a bloodless centrist, but he has consistently
curbed some of his party's least productive adventures in utopianism and
identity politics. Although California's rising generation of leading Democrats
often seem to think of an archliberal agenda as not just their prerogative, but
rather their destiny, if they fail to reckon with the wisdom of an earlier
political age, soon they'll really have something to worry about.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             564 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

By accident, media helped Trump

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 627 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

A lot of people were shocked by the result of the presidential election, but I
think it's safe to say the only people more stunned than Hillary Clinton and her
supporters were the news media. And by the media, I mean all of them.

It didn't matter which network you were watching, as each anchor called the
election for Donald Trump they all had the same expression of complete and total
bewilderment on their faces. The only thing I can compare it to is the look that
attorney Robert Kardashian had on his kisser when the jury foreman read the O.J.
Simpson verdict.

The conventional wisdom was that since Trump was hit with the kitchen sink on a
daily basis, there was no way he could cobble together the necessary 270
electoral votes to win the election.

But he did.

And I actually think the media's palpable disdain for the Manhattan billionaire
ended up helping him with the American people.

Never before has there been an election where the news media so overtly picked a
side. This was true across all platforms - broadcast, entertainment and print -
almost everybody in my profession wanted Hillary to win.

Writing in Time magazine, Univision and Fusion anchor Jorge Ramos insisted, "It
doesn't matter who you are - a journalist, a politician or a voter - we'll all
be judged by how we responded to Donald Trump. Like it or not, this election is
a plebiscite on the most divisive, polarizing and disrupting figure in American
politics in decades. And neutrality is not an option."

And then Ramos went even further, saying, "Trump has forced journalists to
revisit rules of objectivity and fairness. Just providing both points of view is
not enough in the current presidential campaign. If a candidate is making racist
and sexist remarks, we cannot hide in the principle of neutrality. That's a
false equivalence."

Ramos' remarks were celebrated by his peers.

The Philadelphia Enquirer went so far as to editorialize, "You call Jorge Ramos
'an advocacy journalist'? If so, America needs 10,000 more like him."

On "The Tonight Show,' host Jimmy Fallon invited Trump on as a guest and treated
him the same way he would treat any other political candidate. As a result, he
was excoriated.

Jo Miller, an executive producer of "Full Frontal with Samantha Bee" on TBS,
said in an interview with The New York Times that seeing Fallon's interview of
Trump "was a punch in the gut."

Miller explained, "This is not a race between Democrat and Republican - this is
a race between Democrat and demagogue. You don't normalize someone who's
inciting violence."

And then you have the Huffington Post, which decided to print all of its
Trump-related news in the 'entertainment' section of the website along with the
outrageous editors note, "Donald Trump regularly incites political violence and
is a serial liar, rampant xenophobe, racist, misogynist and birther who has
repeatedly pledged to ban all Muslims - 1.6 billion members of an entire
religion - from entering the U.S."

In response to this blanket side-picking, most Americans just decided to tune
the media out - because they knew they weren't honest brokers.

Whenever a news outlet would unveil yet another hit piece on Trump, it would
largely fall on deaf ears instead of having an impact on the race.

A week and change after the election, two things are clear - the media have lost
their influence over the electorate, and it helped Donald Trump.

If they want to get their good name back, and recapture the attention of half of
America, there's only one way to do it - go back to playing it straight.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             565 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

An opportunity, not a mandate

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 770 words

ABSTRACT

Brian Calle on election

FULL TEXT

A presidential election victory is not a mandate. In fact, winning a
presidential election never is, despite the opinion of too many pundits. Even
Republican President Ronald Reagan recognized this when he won a landslide
re-election in 1984, winning 49 states and garnering 525 electoral votes.

In the aftermath of that election, Reagan pushed bipartisan support of laws he
signed and ensured his Republican Party worked with Democrats in Congress.

Despite the opinion of some, President-elect Trump's victory is not a mandate,
either, and not because he lost the popular vote or because we are coming out of
the most divisive election cycle in modern history, where many in the country
are viewing his imminent presidency with a great deal of skepticism and concern.
It's because when a president or a political party treats any one election as a
mandate and overreaches, it quickly loses the reins of power.

After his historic 2008 victory, President Obama had the wind at his back.
Democrats regained the presidency after eight years and held majorities in both
the Senate and the House of Representatives. His party was unified and poised
for potentially unparalleled legislative achievement, believing that the country
had endorsed an ambitious progressive agenda.

Early in his presidential tenure, Obama pushed what would ultimately become his
signature legislative achievement - the Affordable Care Act (colloquially
referred to as Obamacare). It was pushed through Congress without a single
Republican vote in either the House or the Senate, in the face of widespread
public opposition to the legislation.

That single action started a chain of events, beginning with a revolt by voters
in 2010, costing President Obama's Democratic Party to lose its majority in the
House and drop six seats in the Senate. It is also what spawned the Tea Party,
and, thus, the beginnings of an early base of support for Trump, a political
figure who personifies all that Obama demonized.

Ever since, Obama has had a combative relationship with Congress devoid of
mutual trust or admiration. Republicans in Congress bear some of the blame, as
they refused to work with Obama.

The result is unfortunate: Since 2010, President Obama has had no other major
legislative achievements. Contrast that with former Presidents Bill Clinton and
Reagan - both who faced Congresses controlled by the opposition party - and you
will see a stark contrast in ap

proach and, thus, accomplishment. In fact, Reagan had a rule that he would not
sign a bill into law without at least some Democratic support, and Clinton's
penchant for political deal-making was the hallmark of his success as president.

For the last six years in Washington, compromise was replaced with contempt.
Polarization has overtaken collaboration and it's become more politically
expedient to bash political opponents than to find common ground.

President Obama's response to the gridlock was to attempt to legislate by fiat,
that is, to use executive orders to sidestep a Congress that he chastised as
being controlled by the "Party of no." As Marc Thiessen wrote for the Washington
Post, "The reason Obama's legacy is so vulnerable today is that the 44th
president relied more on executive actions - issuing not only executive orders,
but also a record number of rules, regulations and agency directives to
legislate around Congress and impose his agenda."

Thiessen also recalled: "After he lost control of the Senate in 2014, Obama
announced at his first Cabinet meeting: 'We're not just going to be waiting for
legislation. ... I've got a pen and I've got a phone. And I can use that pen to
sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that
move the ball forward.'"

What this means, though, is on Day One in office, President Trump could undo
every single one of the actions Obama made with his pen and phone. That's why
the role of the president is not that of a legislator, but instead a
collaborative role that must persuade and work with Congress to pass legislation
by a large enough margin that the next president and Congress will not undo it.

Now Trump, winning an even more alienating campaign than either of the two that
Obama won, must grapple with the realities of governing an even more divided
country. The Republican Party will control the White House, the Senate and the
House of Representatives, but if it overreaches it will face the same kind of
backlash Democrats and President Obama felt in the 2010 and 2014 elections.

Brian Calle is opinion editor for the Southern California News Group.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             566 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Five ideas to make America greater

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 932 words


Donald Trump's presidential campaign was based on the notion that he could "Make
America Great Again." But beyond the rhetoric - sometimes lurching into
demagoguery - the newly elected president comes to office, as one commentator
suggests, "the least policy-savvy president in history."

To succeed, Trump must adopt innovative policies that transcend traditional
right-left divides. He needs to find ways to help his heavily white,
working-class base while expanding his appeal to minorities, millennials and
educated people who are now largely horrified by his ascendency.

In the short run, his biggest problem may lie with his own Republican Party
establishment, which, rather than "drain the swamp," would simply like to create
one of its own. The looming presence of corporate lobbyists, swarming around the
administration like hungry flies, is not encouraging at all, nor are GOP
congressional plans to re-establish "earmarks."

The key lies not in empowering a different set of K Street parasites, but rather
in reversing income stagnation. If he cannot, his triumph may prove

to be no more consequential than an absurdist, Latin American-style telenovela.

A flatter, fairer tax

The basic instinct among many Republicans tends toward reducing taxes on their
richest donors and making life easier for the ultrarich, including some on
Trump's economic team. Trump's imperative should, instead, be to make the tax
system fairer for the middle and working classes. One way would be to make a
graduated flat tax that would mean that the rich, who make most of their money
from investments, pay the same rate for capital gains as the rest of us do for
income.

Democrats will, no doubt, still charge Trump with being "unfair," but, as Ronald
Reagan proved 20 years ago, Americans support incentives for work if they don't
unfairly tilt conditions to the ultrarich. Main Street business owners, the most
hostile constituency to the Obama administration's policies, pay taxes based on
their income and can't manipulate the system like Apple, Google, Wall Streeters
or, for that matter, real estate developers like Trump himself.

A middle ground for immigration

Opposition to illegal immigration helped drive the Trump campaign early on, but,
outside of the GOP base, there is little support for a mass roundup of the
undocumented. The vast majority of Americans, over 70 percent, also oppose "open
borders." After all, even President Obama evicted 2 million people during his
two terms in office.

Trump also can begin reordering our immigration policies toward skilled workers
who are interested in becoming citizens. At the same time, Trump could score
points by undermining the H1-B visa program, which allows Silicon Valley firms,
along with corporations like Disney and Southern California Edison, to lay off
American workers and replace them with temporary indentured servants.

Unleash the energy industry

Much of the growth in America during the first six years of the Obama
administration came from energy, which added 500,000 jobs between 2004 and 2014,
much of them concentrated in the Trumpian heartland of the upper Midwest,
Appalachia and the Texas-Oklahoma-Louisiana "oil patch." Now, under pressure
from low prices, Trump may consider ways to encourage our domestic producers.

Since he is not a free trade ideologue, Trump could position his policy as one
way to keep from being dependent on lunatic Middle Eastern states - or even his
good friend Vladimir Putin. The energy industry and manufacturing, unlike high
tech, employ large numbers of not only of white, working-class people, but also
Latinos and African Americans, and generally at high wages.

Localism

This election proved how deeply divided Americans are, both by class and
geography. The fearful reaction on the Left to Trump's election reveals how
dependent our politics have become on the "imperial presidency." One way to
defuse the worry would be to cede more control from Washington to the
localities.

We should let the leaders of the "Left Coast," if they so wish, wear green
energy hair shirts, legalize marijuana, boost the minimum wage dramatically,
suppress suburban housing and dictate transgender bathrooms. If the middle of
the country does not want to follow suit, that's just fine, as long as they
protect basic human rights. A country as diverse and divided cannot be
effectively ruled by a central government that goes increasingly into areas that
were once largely controlled locally.

Infrastructure

To succeed, Trump must look as much to the model of Franklin D. Roosevelt as
Ronald Reagan. A large basic infrastructure plan - long the purview of the
federal government - would employ many blue-collar workers, including many
minorities. This stimulus should be directed to those areas and industries more
open to his administration, such as trucking, warehousing, energy and basic
manufacturing. Much of the work should be in the areas that backed Trump - the
South, where growth is strongest, and also in the Midwest and Great Plains,
where much of the basic road, bridge and energy infrastructure is outdated.

Ultimately, Trump's success depends on securing the economic interests of his
core supporters. To expand his coalition, he needs show how his program helps
not just his core base but also broader parts of the population who likewise
have felt short-changed in this economy, and deserve a better future.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             567 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Why we are still waiting for Madam President

BYLINE: Lori Cox Han

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 899 words

ABSTRACT

Lori Cox Han on Clinton loss

FULL TEXT

Obviously, a Hillary Clinton presidency would have been historic. The symbolism
of Clinton's inauguration as the first women president would have resonated
world-wide as a mark of the progress that American women have achieved in all
walks of life. Instead, the post-mortem is well underway about why, despite all
the polls and pundit predictions, Clinton lost.

Many are pointing to sexism as the main culprit, yet no empirical evidence
exists to back it up. We know that sexist and misogynistic views exist within
our society, and that negative stereotypes about women are constantly promoted
within our mass media. However, proving a link between sexist views and voting
behavior, with any validity, is impossible. Public opinion polls for years have
shown support for electing a woman president, suggesting that a majority of
Americans are not deterred by a woman candidate. Partisanship was more than
likely the deciding factor in 2016 as severe polarization has continued among
the American electorate, as were economic issues as evidenced by Donald Trump's
success in the Rust Belt.

Similarly, gender bias in news coverage is also a popular theory for why Clinton
lost. While sexist and misogynistic language exists, particularly online and in
social media, there is no empirical evidence to suggest this can effect voter
preference or turnout. If a blogger or cable news pundit writes or says
something offensive about a woman candidate, are we to believe that can
translate into hundreds of thousands or even millions of voters refusing to
support her? That assessment defies logic. Obviously, sexism can have a harmful
effect when considering the broader issue of political socialization through the
mass media, but we should not overinflate its importance as it relates to
political news and voting behavior. Not only has research shown that
frontrunners get more negative coverage (which Clinton was in 2008 and 2016),
but also that public criticism of sexist attacks can eliminate the effectiveness
and make it seem less credible.

Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign built extensively on the support she earned
in her campaign for the Democratic nomination in 2008. She won the Democratic
nomination with 34 primary and caucus victories and a total of 17 million votes.
She broke every fundraising record with the $500 million she raised this
campaign cycle (not to mention the nearly $200 million in Super PAC funds). In
the general election, she won 19 states plus the District of Columbia, 232
electoral votes, and will win the popular vote. To say that American voters
can't or won't vote for a woman for president no longer holds credibility.

A closer examination of Clinton as a candidate is where we see many compelling
reasons for her loss. I am on record that Clinton was an "inherently flawed
candidate," which left me skeptical for years that she could actually win the
presidency. During this campaign, she was under investigation by the FBI for
both her use of a private email server and fundraising at the Clinton Foundation
while secretary of state. That, along with the baggage from her husband's long
political career, reinforced the negative perceptions many Americans have had of
the Clintons for years.

A majority of voters did not trust her, nor did they hold a positive view of
her. What has often helped women politicians - being more trusted among voters,
in part, for their outsider perspective - was lost for Clinton. In addition, the
argument that she should run on the historic nature of her campaign to be the
first woman president fell flat months ago, as polling and focus group data
suggested that message was hurting more than helping her.

Group solidarity also did not emerge for Clinton with women voters. Despite
projections that the gender gap would be a record-breaking 20 percent or higher,
it was only 13 percent (similar to Barack Obama's support from women in 2008 and
2012, as well as Al Gore's in 2000). Political scientists have long known that
women are not a monolithic voting bloc. Research continues to show that it is
partisan affiliation (including policy choices), and not gender, that is most
influential in determining women's voter preference. Mitt Romney won among
married women and white women in 2012; this time, Clinton won among married
women, but 53 percent of white women supported Trump, proving that gender is
just one part of the voting behavior equation.

As I have long argued, despite the inevitable symbolism that will come from
electing the first woman president, nothing will change about our constitution
and/or presidential powers. I concluded in my 2015 book "In It to Win: Electing
Madam President" that a gendered strategy is not necessary for a woman
presidential candidate to win, and I believe the Clinton campaign proved that
point. While some gender advantages may exist, it is the institutional,
constitutional, nuts-and-bolts of the electoral process that ultimately
determines the winner. Despite the advantage in fundraising, political
experience and a superior ground game, the Clinton campaign failed to provide a
strong narrative about why she should be elected, and failed to turn out voters
in the swing states that mattered. The candidate's gender can hardly be blamed
for that.

Lori Cox Han, PhD, is professor of political science at Chapman University.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             568 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Wind, solar advocates aim to get Trump on their side

BYLINE: David Danelski; ddanelski@scng.com

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

ABSTRACT

LDN-L-ELX-ENERGY | From PE; will place in SAXO | The nation, especially Southern
California, has pushed hard for alternative fuels, powered by President Obama's
alluring financial incentives by a shift to the right in DC? The state,
encouraged by Gov. Brown, crafted some of the nation's toughest air-quality
standards while private companies took advantage of incentives to build mammoth
solar plants in the desert? Will a different White House agenda that promises to
embrace more traditional fossil fuels set a new tone? Danelski-Bender 30" File
photos, graphic of desert power plants (stunning PE art of desert power plants)
ETA: Thursday 6 pm

FULL TEXT

Wind and solar power proponents hope to appeal to Republican President-elect
Donald Trump's desire for economic growth to persuade him to support their
industries.

Their business means jobs, they say, and the president-elect promised lots of
new jobs.

"We are looking at continued growth and investment," said Greg Wetstone,
president and CEO of the American Council on Renewable Energy.

The green-power business is riding on an unprecedented wave, powered largely by
President Barack Obama, who promoted alternative energy development as a way to
counter global warming. And he matched his enthusiasm with lucrative financial
incentives.

At the crest of that wave, alt-energy leaders hope to counter some of what Trump
said about wind and solar energy during his presidential campaign and define
their business as a proven brand of economic development.

On the campaign trail, Trump called global warming a hoax invented by the
Chinese, despite much scientific consensus that supports the threat.

In a radio interview with conservative activist Herman Cain last month, Trump
said: "Solar is very, very expensive. Wind is very, very expensive, and it only
works when it's windy." He also said that Riverside County's San Gorgonio Pass
area "looks like a junkyard" because of aging wind farms. "It's the worst thing
you've ever seen."

Trump also vowed to slash environmental regulations to bolster the oil, gas and
coal industries.

But Trump has yet to speak about energy since the election and has appeared
responsive to advice from Obama and others.

Once in the White House, he'll face growing international consensus on climate
change. At the ongoing United Nations climate talks in Marrakech, conference
chair Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco offered: "Our message to the new American
president is simply to say, 'We count on your pragmatism and your spirit of
commitment.' "

Trump's own stance isn't yet clear. In the same interview with Cain, the
president-elect left the door open to more wind and solar development by adding:
"I'm not saying I'm against those things. I'm for everything. I'm for
everything."

Alternative energy experts, along with local and state officials, said they
don't expect to see a slowdown of residential or commercial solar energy
development in California.

Tim Clark, Trump's California campaign state director, referred questions about
Trump's energy policy to the president-elect's transition team. The team's web
page asks that press inquiries be sent by email. No one on the team responded to
an inquiry for this report.

Jack Pitney, a professor of politics at Claremont McKenna College, said clean
energy probably will do fine if Trump can be convinced of its economic
viability.

"He is a climate skeptic, so I wouldn't emphasize climate change," Pitney said.
"If I am a lobbyist for the solar industry, I would say this is an effective
form of energy and people can make a lot of money selling it, and he'd be OK
with it."

Two days after the election, about 70 energy, state and local officials gathered
in the desert near Blythe to celebrate the opening of two neighboring solar
plants. The McCoy and Blythe facilities blanket more than 6 square miles of
federal land in eastern Riverside County and create enough electricity for about
181,000 households.

The new projects exemplify a maturing industry still on the upswing.

Like several other large-scale solar projects, they were built on federal land
with federal tax credits that covered 30 percent of the $1.2 billion development
cost.

In a deal approved by Congress last year that also helped the oil industry,
those credits for solar will stay at 30 percent through 2019. They'll be phased
down to 10 percent by 2022.

Scott Busa, executive director of development for NextEra Energy, said these
credits, plus already obtained land-use entitlements from the federal Bureau of
Land Management, will allow for the Blythe and McCoy projects to expand in the
coming years and more than double energy output.

"We are only about halfway there, and we look forward to future expansion," he
said.

Karen Douglas, a member of the California Energy Commission, also was at the
Nov. 10 ceremony in the desert. She said policies may shift in Washington, but
California's commitment to clean energy that began in the 1970s is unwavering.

"This is going to continue," said Douglas, standing by a sea of solar panels
extending deep into the desert landscape.

California, she said, must meet its own clean energy mandates, which require
that 50 percent of the state's electricity come from carbon-free sources, such
as solar, wind and geothermal facilities.

Industry officials are confident that Trump will see the economic benefits that
they say make clean energy competitive with coal, oil, and natural gas.

Wetstone said that demand for solar and other forms of alternative energy is
increasing as the costs are coming down.

The organization estimates that the renewable energy industry attracts about $44
billion a year in investments, creating thousand of jobs.

Dan Whitten, a spokesman for the Solar Energy Industries Association, said
proponents should appeal to Trump's call for jobs and energy security. Doing
that could help the solar industry thrive during his administration.

"We don't see where he has a motive to stop this train from rolling forward,"
Whitten said.

Riverside County Supervisor John Benoit said he hopes eastern Riverside County
will continue to benefit from solar development. His district includes the
nation's largest solar development zone on public land.

The zone runs along the I-10 corridor between Desert Center and Blythe.

But Benoit remains concerned about Trump's knowledge of alternative energy,
saying much of his rhetoric is "in serious error."

For instance, in the Cain interview, Trump said that "thousands of birds are
lying on the ground" near Palm Springs wind farms. And Trump said that wind
farms kill eagles "by the hundreds."

Wind turbines do kill birds, but not on the scale described by Trump.

A 2013 report by U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service officials documented 85 eagle
deaths (six bald eagles and 79 golden eagles) at 32 wind farms in 10 states that
occurred from 1997 to 2012.

The actual number may be higher because coyotes and other scavengers may run off
with the carcasses before they are found, wildlife officials have said.

Still, wind and solar development creates jobs and has "zero impact on air
quality," said Benoit, a Republican.

"I would hope that his (Trump's) rhetoric will be tempered by business
realities," he said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             569 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Kanye West hospitalized after canceling concert tour

BYLINE: City News Service

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 402 words

ABSTRACT

Kanye West delivered another public screed Saturday night, this time about
Beyonc[#xfffd], Jay-Z and others at a Sacramento concert on his Saint Pablo tour


FULL TEXT

LOS ANGELES >> One day after canceling a concert at the Forum with only about
three hours notice, rapper Kanye West on Monday scrubbed the remainder of his
Saint Pablo Tour, and he was subsequently hospitalized, possibly for psychiatric
evaluation.

No reason was given for the cancellation of the tour, with concert promoter Live
Nation saying only that tickets "will be fully refunded at point of purchase."
West had been scheduled to perform at Honda Center in Anaheim on Wednesday, and
in Fresno today.

Hours after his concerts were canceled, multiple media reports surfaced that
West had been hospitalized at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, with the
website TMZ reporting that he was undergoing a psychiatric evaluation after
being examined for exhaustion.

NBC News and TMZ both reported that Los Angeles police responded to a medical
welfare call involving West around 1:20 p.m., and the singer was ultimately
taken by ambulance to a hospital. NBC reported the decision was made for West's
"own health and safety."

Los Angeles police, without identifying West, told City News Service they
responded to a disturbance call at 1:20 p.m. in the 800 block of North Laurel
Avenue, near the Fairfax District, but when officers arrived, it turned out to
be a medical emergency, and paramedics were called.

West had been scheduled to perform at 8 p.m. Sunday at the Forum, but that
concert was called off at about 5 p.m. Some concertgoers did not learn of the
cancellation until they showed up at the Inglewood arena. The concert was
supposed to be a makeup for West leaving early from a Nov. 3 appearance at the
Forum due to what he called vocal issues.

One day earlier, the rapper - who is married to reality television personality
Kim Kardashian - walked off stage only four songs into a concert in Sacramento,
a show in which he took the stage about 90 minutes late.

At that concert, West went into a tirade in which he railed against Beyonce, Jay
Z, Hillary Clinton, the radio industry and the media, before exiting the stage.

On Thursday, during a San Jose appearance, he elicited boos when he told the
crowd in a well-publicized, profanity-laced dialogue that he didn't vote in the
recent presidential election, but he would have voted for Donald Trump.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             570 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Get ready for a new voting system debuting in 2018

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 713 words



If you voted this fall in a neighborhood garage or the clubhouse of a park or a
school auditorium, remember the experience well. It may not be repeated anytime
soon. If you saw American flags flying at your precinct polling place, that
sight may also disappear.

A whole new election system is about to begin in California, complete with "vote
centers" and a big expansion of early balloting. The new system will start
phasing in in 2018 in 14 counties and should be operative by 2020 everywhere in
the state.

One thing is for sure: Losing candidates and those who expect to lose will have
new fodder for the "rigged election" cry taken up so vocally this fall by
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. With more mail-in ballots
involved than ever before, same-day voter registration and personnel in place to
provide language assistance, charges of fraud will be common at least while the
new system is being broken in.

The hope behind the new system, pushed hard by Democratic Secretary of State
Alex Padilla and signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown, is to increase voter
turnout drastically.

After low turnout disappointed officials in 2014 and the off-year elections of
2013 and 2015, they began casting about for changes. The new system will deliver
mail-in ballots to every registered voter in the 28 days before the actual
Election Day, aiming to end any need to vote in a single place on just one day.

"We've got to ... implement a new voting model," said Democratic state Sen. Ben
Allen of Santa Monica, who sponsored the new system in the Legislature. "Our
current system has failed, as our voter turnout rates continued to decline
toward record lows."

Turnout in both the 2014 primary (25 percent of registered voters) and that
year's November general election (42 percent) was at record lows, making Padilla
and the Legislature a bit desperate to push numbers up.

So instead of voters needing to sign up to receive mail-in ballots for every
election, from now on they will go to everyone automatically. Never mind the
tradition of the secret ballot; everyone from labor unions to employers to
neighborhood groups is now free to hold ballot-marking parties before Election
Day. This has actually been true since mail-in voting became common in the late
1970s, and there have never been charges it led to mass fraud or coerced voting
for particular candidates or causes. But such outcries may arise now.

The guinea pigs for the new system will be voters in Calaveras, Inyo, Madera,
Napa, Nevada, Orange, Sacramento, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Shasta, Sierra, Sutter and Tuolumne counties, with in-person voting at centers
spotted around each county weeks before Election Day. Voters also will be able
to drop off ballots at those centers, rather than mailing them in.

Counties pushed for this, partly as a cost-cutting measure. The fewer polling
places, the lower the cost of an election. But counties moving to the new system
will all have to adopt detailed plans through a system involving public hearings
and input. Community groups, advocates for the disabled and other individuals
all will be able to express preferences for vote center locations. But expect
them to be placed in public buildings where there's either no rent or low rent.

The politicians behind this system claim it will provide far greater flexibility
than long-standing precinct polling places. "It's time to modernize the voting
process," said Democratic state Sen. Robert Hertzberg of Van Nuys, a co-sponsor.
"We need to provide the same convenience and flexibility (people) have in other
areas of their lives. You can stream a movie or deposit a check with your phone
any time, but without this (change), people still have to arrange their busy
schedules to get to a polling place on a single day and that has hurt turnout."

Only time will tell whether all this actually spurs more people to vote. And no
one knows whether the inevitable charges of fraud or vote-fixing will have any
merit. But the people behind the change are certainly correct about one thing:
Turnout had become far too low in recent years, often allowing a small minority
of eligible voters to choose the people who make key decisions for everyone.

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             571 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Court gives taxi competition a green light

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Tuesday editorial on taxi regulations

FULL TEXT

While everyone was preoccupied with the impending elections, and particularly
the presidential race, a federal appeals court quietly issued a pair of rulings
upholding deregulation in the taxi and ridesharing market.

The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals issued two separate rulings last month
affirming decisions that reforms opening up taxi markets to greater competition
in Chicago and Milwaukee did not violate the rights of entrenched taxi
interests. The Chicago case concerned the city's decision to allow ridesharing
services such as Uber and Lyft to operate. In the Milwaukee case, the largest
taxicab operator in the city sued after the city removed the cap on taxi
medallions, which significantly reduced the artificially inflated resale value
of the medallions.

Judge Richard Posner did not mince words in the court's Milwaukee decision: "The
plaintiffs' contention that the increased number of permits has taken property
away from the plaintiffs without compensation, in violation of the
constitutional protection of property, borders on the absurd. Property can take
a variety of forms, some of them intangible, such as patents. But a taxi permit
confers only a right to operate a taxicab (a right which, in Milwaukee, may be
sold). It does not create a right to be an oligopolist, and thus confers no
right to exclude others from operating taxis."

The decisions were hailed by the Institute for Justice, a libertarian
public-interest law firm that represented drivers and entrepreneurs in both
cases, and which also has won legal victories against taxi regulations in
Denver, Minneapolis and Bowling Green, Ohio.

"These cases clear the way for transportation freedom across the country," the
institute's Senior Attorney Anthony Sanders said in a statement. "For too long,
cities across the country have embraced an outdated mode of transportation
regulation that says competition is to be feared and that freedom for taxi
drivers or other transportation entrepreneurs is unthinkable. Today's rulings
confirm that there is absolutely no legal barrier to other cities' joining the
rising wave of cities embracing transportation freedom."

Ridesharing services have sparked a flurry of regulatory activity, both for
better and for worse. Initially, governments rushed to impose regulations on the
renegade disrupters, particularly in large cities with powerful traditional taxi
interests. But, as consumers have increasingly rendered their verdict in favor
of ridesharers, and the inevitability of the success of the new business model
has set in, there has been a backlash wave of deregulation - for both
ridesharing companies and taxis.

San Diego followed Milwaukee's lead, lifting its cap on taxi permits two years
ago, and cities across the nation - from Portland, Oregon, to Salt Lake City to
Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, to Sarasota, Florida - have deregulated in recent
years.

This is a great victory for entrepreneurs looking to make a living and
consumers, who benefit from the increased competition in the form of lower
prices and better service. Now, if only occupational licensing laws and other
regulatory and protectionist barriers could be brought down in equal measure and
fervor in other industries.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             572 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Today in history

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words

ABSTRACT

Hist 11-22

FULL TEXT

1718

English pirate Edward Teach - better-known as "Blackbeard" - was killed during a
battle off present-day North Carolina.

1914

The First Battle of Ypres during World War I ended with an Allied victory
against Germany.

1963

John F. Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States, was shot to death
during a motorcade in Dallas; Texas Gov. John B. Connally, riding in the same
car as Kennedy, was seriously wounded; suspected gunman Lee Harvey Oswald was
arrested.

1955

Comic Shemp Howard of "Three Stooges" fame died in Hollywood at age 60.

1965

The musical "Man of La Mancha" opened on Broadway. Singer-songwriter Bob Dylan
married Sara Lownds (the marriage lasted 12 years).

1975

Juan Carlos was proclaimed King of Spain.

1989

Rene Mouawad was killed by a bomb after serving 17 days as president of Lebanon.

1990

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, having failed to win re-election of
the Conservative Party leadership on the first ballot, announced she would
resign.

2006

A chemical factory explosion in Danvers, Massachusetts, destroyed the
surrounding neighborhood but caused no deaths or serious injuries.

2011

Baseball players and owners signed an agreement for a new labor contract, a deal
making baseball the first North American professional major league to start
blood testing on human growth hormone and expanding the playoffs to 10 teams by
2013. Ryan Braun was voted the NL MVP after helping the Milwaukee Brewers win
their first division title in nearly 30 years. Death claimed France's former
first lady Danielle Mitterrand at age 87 and Svetlana Alliluyeva, daughter of
Soviet dictator Josef Stalin, at age 85. Soldier-turned-soap opera star J.R.
Martinez and his professional partner, Karina Smirnoff, were named champions of
season 13 of ABC's "Dancing with the Stars."

2015

Trying to reassure a nation on edge, President Barack Obama said in Malaysia
that the Islamic State group "cannot strike a mortal blow" against the U.S., and
he warned that overreacting to the Paris attacks would play into extremists'
hands. Opposition candidate Mauricio Macri won Argentina's presidential
election, marking an end to the left-leaning era of President Cristina
Fernandez. Former South Korean President Kim Young-sam, 87, who led the
country's transition to democracy, died in Seoul. Actress and artist Adele
Morales Mailer, 90, died in New York. Novak Djokovic won his fourth straight
title at the season-ending ATP finals by beating six-time champion Roger Federer
6-3, 6-4. Kyle Busch won his first career Sprint Cup title claiming the season
finale at Homestead-Miami Speedway. One Direction won artist of the year at the
American Music Awards.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             573 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Trump, Garcetti talk L.A. issues;
President-elect's call includes a mention of immigration, infrastructure
investments

BYLINE: Anita Bennett and Ryan Carter; Staff Writers

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 641 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and President-elect Donald Trump hold phone
conversation.

FULL TEXT

Amid growing concerns among Los Angeles leaders about what the future may hold
when President-elect Donald Trump takes office, L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti spoke
with Trump on Wednesday by telephone in what was described as a "productive
conversation."

The two discussed "ways to expand infrastructure investments and opportunities
in communities across America," the mayor's spokeswoman Connie Llanos said in a
statement.

"Mayor Garcetti underlined the need for the federal government to continue being
a strong partner in these efforts," she said.

Among the other issues brought up during

the call were L.A.'s Olympic bid - which Trump voiced support for - and
immigration, according to Llanos.

"The mayor stressed the important role that immigrants and immigration reform
will play in L.A.'s - and the nation's - long-term success," Llanos said.

Garcetti's office said that the mayor had reached out to the Trump camp, and the
president-elect placed the brief call. The office did not remark on the tone of
the conversation.

Trump has frequently spoken out about his desires to deport undocumented
immigrants, and in an interview with "60 Minutes" that aired on Nov. 13, he said
he planned to immediately deport 2 million to 3 million undocumented immigrants
who "have criminal records" after his inauguration.

Garcetti was a strong supporter of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary
Clinton and had been a frequent Trump critic.

In a July speech at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, Garcetti
had strong remarks for Trump.

"Donald Trump has no vision for our country, and no genuine answers to our
challenges," he said about the then-Republican nominee.

Months earlier, Garcetti called Trump the "ultimate caricature" of a politician
who would say anything to get elected.

"What we can't do with Donald Trump is normalize him as a candidate," Garcetti
said in a May 24 conference call with reporters. "He's a racist, he's a bigot,
he's sexist."

But on Wednesday, local leaders said the dialogue was vital, with much at stake
in the relationship between Washington and Los Angeles.

"I'm thrilled to hear that there is a dialogue," said L.A. City Councilman Mitch
Englander, who represents parts of the San Fernando Valley. "We have an
umbilical cord to federal dollars that can't be severed."

Councilman Jos[#xfffd] Huizar, whose district includes Boyle Heights, elaborated
on the city's needs.

"I hope they talked about our aging infrastructure and the lack of affordable
housing funds coming from the federal government and the need to ramp that
effort up," Huizar said in a statement, adding that Trump needed to know that
homeless funding was a huge challenge in a city where mental health issues
affect a third of those without shelter.

"And, of course, immigration - we hope the president-elect understands that we
are a city of immigrants and there is no advantage to anybody if we tear
families apart and remove children and young people from the only country they
have ever known and loved."

Garcetti's Wednesday conversation with Trump came one day after L.A. County
Supervisor Hilda Solis warned that changes to federal policy proposed by Trump
could lead to the deportation of nearly half a million county residents.

"It seems that standing up for our people's constitutional rights is going to
fall on the hands of state and local governments," Solis said Tuesday.

As she spoke during a news conference in downtown L.A., Solis said the Board of
Supervisors had unanimously approved a motion that asks the Sheriff's Department
and other law enforcement agencies "to proactively contact communities likely to
be targeted to reassure them of support of their policy of not inquiring about
immigration status of victims or witnesses."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             574 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Cabinet: Gov. Nikki Haley picked to be U.S. ambassador to UN, Betsy DeVos to top
Education

BYLINE: Julie Bykowicz and Steve Peoples; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 845 words

ABSTRACT

President-elect Donald Trump has chosen two women for his Cabinet-in-waiting:
South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations and prominent charter school advocate Betsy DeVos as his secretary of
education

FULL TEXT

PALM BEACH, Fla. >> Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald
Trump selected two Republican women on Wednesday who disparaged him during the
presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate Betsy DeVos to lead
the federal Department of Education.

Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet

Trump praised her as "a proven dealmaker." DeVos, like Trump, is new to
government but has spent decades working to change America's system of public
education.

DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts
as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is
the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minority
selection after a string of announcements of white men.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role, which would make him the first black choice - presumably as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development - but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it
over the Thanksgiving holiday.

"I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our
inner cities great for everyone," Carson wrote on his Facebook page.

Wednesday's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the "alt-right,"
a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election.

He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with
family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving. He's
spending the holiday there after a week of interviews of potential appointees in
New York, punctuated by announcements of members of his national security team.

Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections was evident through much
of this year's campaign.

"The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley!" Trump wrote in
March. Haley denounced several of his campaign comments and urged voters to
"reject the siren call of the angriest voices."

DeVos told The Associated Press in July, "A lot of the things he has said are
very off-putting and concerning."

On Wednesday, Trump said of his U.N. selection: "Gov. Haley has a proven track
record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation
to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our
country."

She said she loved her South Carolina post but "when the president believes you
have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our
nation's standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed."

While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and
right.

The president of the National Education Association, Lily Eskelsen Garcia, said
in a statement that for years DeVos "has lobbied for failed schemes, like
vouchers - which take away funding and local control from our public schools -
to fund private schools at taxpayers' expense."

And Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, tweeted,
"Trump has chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the
creation of the Dept of Education."

At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor,
who has spent millions of dollars - along with her husband - to promote
candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the
Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign.

Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that
climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign
vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.

DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a "Q&A" statement that said directly
about Common Core: "I am not a supporter - period."

"I do support high standards," she said. But along the way Common Core "got
turned into a federal boondoggle."

Just two weeks ago, Trump shocked the political world - including many in his
own party - by winning the presidential contest. The billionaire New Yorker has
yet to take any formal steps to separate from his international business empire
as experts in both parties warn of potential conflicts of interest.

Trump will be sworn into office in less than 60 days. Beyond his Cabinet, he
must fill hundreds of high-level administration posts.

Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of
state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and
Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
formerly an outspoken Trump critic.

After secretary of state, the U.N. ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic
position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international
stage.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             575 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Food not feud at the table;
Happy holiday: How to remain civil while talking political turkey today

BYLINE: Jeff Horseman; jhorseman@scng.com, @JeffHorseman

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1259 words

ABSTRACT

PE_R_POLITURKEY_1123 | Thanksgiving is a time for feasting, family get-togethers
and the inevitable dinner table screaming match between your arch-conservative
uncle and his ultra-liberal niece. With Donald Trump's election provoking strong
reactions, this Thanksgiving's politics talk could be even more intense. We talk
with experts to see if there's any way to make these debates more civil and
perhaps give liberals and conservatives resources to find talking points.
Reporter/Editor: Horseman/Bender Length: 33 Art: TK ETA: 5 p.m. Tuesday

FULL TEXT

"Pass the gravy. I'll have some more stuffing. Oh, and Uncle Bob, why do you
hate America?"

Such table talk might be a staple of your Thanksgiving dinner. But while
politics discussed over cranberry sauce is nothing new, this year's dinner-time
debate could be especially intense in the wake of November's divisive
presidential election.

"When it comes to politics, people get emotional because it relates to their
belief system," said Bart Rossi, a political psychologist who frequently appears
on TV news shows.

"They're not just challenging Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. It's your
personal belief system, which is serious stuff."

John Berry, a cabinet member of the Redlands Tea Party Patriots who loves to
talk politics, plans to spend Thanksgiving in Laguna Beach with his in-laws.

"Inside, I'm doing a Snoopy-like happy dance," said Berry, who describes himself
as "surrounded by liberals."

At Thanksgiving dinner, Berry said he will bite the inside of his cheeks to keep

from gloating.

"It's kind of funny. When the liberals won in 2008, they weren't shy about
expressing their opinion," Berry added. "But if they bring it up, I'm going to
give it to them both barrels."

The chances of your turkey coming with a side of discord could rise if your
relatives are geographically scattered. This election underscored deep divisions
between different parts of the country. California went strongly for Hillary
Clinton, but Donald Trump did better in the South and Rust Belt.

Before you lose your voice screaming at your niece about her Bernie Sanders
tattoo, here are some strategies for keeping the food and politics separate - or
at least, arguing in a way that won't cause anyone to storm off.

Expect the best

For many, just the thought of hearing Cousin Mike talk about immigration is
enough to cause heartburn hours before the first spoonful of Aunt Jane's
jalapeño-infused cheese dip.

Kate Sweeny, a UC Riverside associate psychology professor who studies how
people cope with uncertain waiting periods, suggests distracting yourself in a
way that completely consumes you. Maybe it's video games. Or it could be
gardening or getting a head start on that work project.

You could plan responses in advance, Sweeny said. For example, if your father
shows up in his "Make America Great Again" hat, say "Nice hat!" and change the
subject.

Sweeny also suggests not assuming the worst will happen. "I do think in this
sort of circumstance, expecting the best can only help you," Sweeny said. "If
you go in expecting the worst behavior, you might create a self-fulfilling
prophecy."

Thanksgiving hosts need to be prepared for how to handle political talk, said
Tim Muehlhoff, a professor of communications at Biola University in La Mirada.
"In addition to assessing what stuffing to make, a host couple needs to assess
the overall communication climate that will envelop the day's activities," he
said.

Reciting Abraham Lincoln's Thanksgiving Day proclamation from 1863 is a
Thanksgiving tradition for Huntington Beach resident Ken Gordon's family.

"It's a good time to bring up and point out to our children how much more
faith-based our nation was," said Gordon, 52, a decline-to-state/unaffiliated
voter who said he left the Republican Party.

This Thanksgiving, Gordon also anticipates talking about the party of Lincoln.
"I think, at the time of this proclamation, (the GOP was) the party of the
disenfranchised," he said. "I would not say that any longer."

Locker room talk

An easy way to avoid a yam-fueled shouting match over Trump's tax policy is to
make clear ahead of time that there's no space on the table for a family edition
of CNN's "Crossfire."

Bill Southworth, a professor of speech and debate history at the University of
Redlands, recommends a "locker room" edict.

"There are two subjects never to be discussed in the locker room - politics and
religion," he said. "All family gatherings (especially those with split voters)
should agree not to mention Clinton or Trump or anything about the election. If
violated, the offending party should leave or the guest should feel free to
depart."

Rossi, the political psychologist, suggests taking the blame for a moratorium.
"(Say) 'I've been especially involved (with this election). At this point in
time, I could use a day to relax and eat some turkey,'" he said.

You also can limit your political discussions to those with like-minded
viewpoints. "This way, you will find yourself talking to family and friends who
support your feelings and perspective," said David Kaplan, a family counselor
and chief professional officer of the American Counseling Association.

"Given the divisiveness of the recent election, trying to vent to someone who
voted for the candidate you opposed or to change their perspective is just going
to make you feel worse."

Radine Hiers, a Moreno Valley Democrat, said she won't be inviting any family
members "who disregarded the rights of any Americans."

"Never have I ever limited differing political views from my life. I really like
political debate," she said. "They could have voted for any other candidate. But
when they crossed into the very apparent and blatantly exposed racism ... (it)
is a line I will no longer accept."

How to argue

Avoidance and positivity have failed. Now, your sister-in-law demands to know
why you voted for "Crooked Hillary."

First, swallow the green beans. Then, rather than call her stupid, "(Say) 'I'm
on the other side and here's why,'" Rossi said. "Highlight as succinctly as
possible why you feel this way.

"You're not arguing to win the argument or change somebody else's personality.
You're just trying to get your point in and move on."

Listening also is important, Rossi said. "Be able to say back to the person what
they said. You can say 'I heard you and you said this. This is why I'm on the
other side of it.'"

You also could point out why you disagree even though you stand to benefit from
the election's outcome, Rossi said.

"Let's suppose you don't really like Donald Trump ... but let's say you get a
really big tax advantage (with his election)," he said. "You could say 'I
actually stand to gain in some ways. However, I'm really on the other side of
everything he stands for.' Or vice versa with Hillary Clinton."

Steven Smith, 29, of Riverside, who said he was "very disappointed" with the
election results, plans to host a family Thanksgiving.

"If anything, I want to take this day to be positive and remember why we are
eating (and) remember the reasons to be thankful and hopeful for the future."

If you must argue

Hopefully your Thanksgiving is full of good memories and family harmony. But if
you insist on arguing with your political opposites, here are some resources.

For conservatives:

National Review: www.nationalreview.com

Town Hall: townhall.com

For liberals:

The Daily Kos: www.dailykos.com

ThinkProgress: www.thinkprogress.org

For everyone else:

Search the website www.mediate.com for tips on how to resolve disputes.

For stress-handling tips, visit www.health.com/stress.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             576 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Trump victory brings 'alt-right' into full view

BYLINE: Jay Reeves; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 486 words


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. >> Donald Trump's election is bringing to the fore a strain of
race-based politics once so far out of the mainstream few had even heard of it.

With an ideology that's a mix of racism, white nationalism and old-fashioned
populism, the "alt-right" has burst into the collective consciousness since
members showed up at the Republican National Convention to celebrate Trump's
nomination last summer.

When one of its leaders, Richard Spencer, gave a speech in Washington last
Saturday at an alt-right conference attended by a couple of hundred people, The
Atlantic was there with a video camera that captured the Nazi-style salutes of
people.

"Hail Trump, hail our people, hail victory!" Spencer said to cheers that were
shown in video snippets that have since been viewed.

What does Spencer mean by "our people"? Whites. Spencer directs the National
Policy Institute, which describes itself as "dedicated to the heritage, identity
and future of people of European descent in the United States and around the
world."

It is Spencer who is widely credited with coming up with the term "alt-right,"
or "alternative-right," about eight years go.

While members of the movement are getting more attention than ever, the head of
the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism said Tuesday there is not much
new in its message.

"The hatred and bigotry that is at the core of alt-right ideology has not
changed," center director Oren Segal said in an interview conducted by private
messaging. "What has changed is the name, their packaging and the stated belief
that they have a champion in the highest office."

Richard Cohen, president of the Alabama-based Southern Poverty Law Center, an
organization that tracks hate groups, said the alt-right is "a rebranding of
white nationalism." Cohen called it "the energy behind the avalanche of racist
and anti-Semitic harassment that plagued social media platforms for the entire
presidential campaign."

Cohen's comments came in a statement about Trump's decision to fill his chief
strategist slot with Steve Bannon, who formerly ran Breitbart News, a website
popular with members of the alt-right. Indeed, much of the alt-right exists
online only, for all practical purposes.

While the Ku Klux Klan or neo-Nazis might have public rallies, people associated
with the alt-right are more likely to spread their beliefs in online forums or
on social media like Twitter.

They tend more toward memes than marches; subjects can include criticism of Jews
and claims that white Americans are under attack by minority groups.

Trump aides and advisers have tried to distance him from the beliefs of the
alt-right. In a meeting Tuesday with editors and reporters of The New York
Times, Trump said of the alt-right: "I don't want to energize the group, and I
disavow the group." But members of the alt-right, including Spencer, are vocal
in their support of the Republican president-elect.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             577 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

School vouchers a tough sell here;
Trump choice for education secretary signals backing for plan California has
spurned

BYLINE: Louis Freedberg; EdSource Today

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

ABSTRACT

LDN-L-SCHOOLS-VOUCHERS | From EdSource | While K-12 education issues were rarely
mentioned in the 2016 presidential campaign, President-elect Donald Trump's
proposal to give children taxpayer-funded vouchers to attend a range of schools,
including private schools, could find fertile ground in his administration. The
idea has never been popular among California voters, and union leaders and those
close to them view it with trepidation. From EdSource 30" File photos ETA: IN

FULL TEXT

While K-12 education issues were rarely mentioned in the 2016 presidential
campaign, President-elect Donald Trump's proposal to give children
taxpayer-funded vouchers to attend a range of schools, including private
schools, could find fertile ground in his administration.

Trump appeared to solidify that stance Wednesday by choosing prominent charter
school advocate Betsy DeVos as his secretary of education.

DeVos, from Michigan, currently leads the advocacy group, American Federation
for Children, and sits on the board of the Jeb Bush-led Foundation for
Excellence in Education. She is a longtime advocate for charter schools and
school vouchers.

The idea of vouchers has never been popular among California voters, and union
leaders and

those close to them view it with trepidation.

Josh Pechthalt, president of the California Federation of Teachers, said that
with Congress under GOP control, enactment of Trump's voucher plan was a "scary
prospect." Steve Zimmer, president of the Los Angeles Unified school board,
worried that Trump would promote a "radical deregulation policy" that would
include "federally implemented vouchers."

Few education issues were raised by either Democrat Hillary Clinton or
Republican Trump during the campaign, so his $20 billion "school choice" plan
stands out.

Trump proposes to give government-funded vouchers to all low-income children in
the United States to attend schools of their choice.

He derisively referred to public schools as "failed government schools." He said
that it was a "civil right" for millions of inner city children "trapped" in
those schools to be able to attend schools of their choice - whether private
schools, charter schools, magnet schools or traditional public schools.

"There is no failed policy in more urgent need of change than our government-run
education monopoly," he said.

Although California offers parents a generous choice of charter schools,
Californians have not been receptive to the idea of issuing vouchers for private
schools, and they have twice rejected propositions that would do so at the
ballot box.

The first time was in November 1993, when voters decisively defeated Proposition
174, titled the "Parental Choice in Education Initiative," by a 69 percent
majority.

The initiative would have required the state to provide a voucher for every
school-age child equal to at least half of what the state spent per pupil on
K-12 public schools.

The principal author of the ballot argument in favor of the proposition was
William Bennett, who had been education secretary under President Ronald Reagan.

"Let's take back control of our schools by breaking the iron grip of overpaid
administrators, powerful union bosses and timid school board members," wrote
Bennett and his co-signatories, sounding strikingly similar to Trump's
pronouncement in 2016.

"There will be tons of support for charters. Full-scale private choice will be a
battle," said Vic Klatt, a principal of the Penn Hill Group and former staff
director of the House Committee on Education and Labor.

Rebutting Bennett's argument in the voter handbook was Charity Webb, president
of the California School Boards Association. She wrote the voucher plan would
"make schools worse, not better," and would "take $2.6 billion away from
neighborhood schools to pay for private voucher schools."

To try to head off passage of the initiative, the state Legislature approved a
law in 1992 allowing for the establishment of charter schools in order to offer
parents greater school choice.

California was only the second state to pass a charter school law. The original
law limited the number of charters to 100 in the entire state, and a maximum of
10 in any one district. Los Angeles Unified was allowed to have 20.

But the Legislature soon afterward lifted the cap, which is now set at 2,050
schools. The law has been stunningly successful in opening the door to charter
school expansion. As of last year, there were 1,230 charter schools in the
state. This year, according to Jed Wallace, president of the California Charter
Schools Association, there are 600,000 children in charter schools, or about 10
percent of the state's public school enrollment.

California voters had a chance to weigh in on the issue of school vouchers once
again in 2000, with Proposition 38. The initiative would have authorized the
state to issue vouchers of up to $4,000 annually that parents could spend on
tuition at private and parochial schools.

The main proponent and backer of the initiative was venture capitalist and
billionaire Tim Draper, who poured $22 million of his money into the initiative.
Other backers included his father William and Jerry Perenchio, former president
of the Spanish language television network Univision.

The California Teachers Association spent an equal amount of its money to defeat
the measure, which was decisively rejected by voters by a 70.6 percent to 29.4
percent margin.

Gerard Robinson, widely reported to be a member of Trump's transition team, and
a former state education chief in Florida and Virginia, told the Washington Post
that he thinks Trump will try to expand school choice programs in some form or
another, even if it isn't the $20 billion plan he proposed on the campaign
trail. "He's going to make a push for parental choice," Robinson said.

One reason Trump's voucher plan is likely to gain traction is that it is almost
certain to get strong support from Mike Pence, Trump's vice president-elect.
While governor in Indiana, Pence was a major supporter of a voucher plan there.
In Indiana, 33,000 students have used the voucher plan to enroll in private
schools, among the largest number in any state.

Although the GOP now controls Congress, there is no assurance that a voucher
plan will pass. Last year, for example, Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., chairman
of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pension Committee, introduced a $23
billion federal voucher plan. As a former secretary of education, Alexander
arguably has more clout on education matters than anyone in Congress. But the
legislation received only 45 votes on the Senate floor, with several moderate
Republicans voting against it.

At an Education Writers Association panel discussion in Washington, D.C., last
week, Vic Klatt, a principal of the Penn Hill Group and former staff director of
the House Committee on Education and Labor, predicted a fight in Congress over
the issue, with some lawmakers from both sides of the aisle lining up against
it.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             578 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Why Sanchez's hopes went south

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 634 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

Virtually every aspect of the presidential election has been broken down and
analyzed by experts and pundits, who are still in a state of shock over the
results. Because President-elect Donald Trump's victory caught almost everyone
by surprise, don't expect this analysis to slow down any time soon.

Getting lost in the shuffle were many of the down-ballot races that also
produced fascinating results.

Take for example, the contest to see who would replace retiring U.S. Sen.
Barbara Boxer as California's junior senator.

All of the public polls had Golden State Attorney General Kamala Harris
comfortably ahead of Orange County Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez in the Democrat
vs. Democrat match up. And I think it's safe to say that most experts
anticipated a comfortable Harris victory. What nobody expected was the 62-38
percent shellacking that Sanchez ended up taking.

There is no way to sugarcoat this, she got creamed.

Now, I'd be lying to you if I didn't say that the perennially undisciplined
Sanchez made a bunch of gaffes that contributed to her defeat.

She did.

But her missteps aren't what caused her to lose. The cake, in many ways, was
already baked.

Way back in July, the bigwigs in the Northern California-dominated California
Democratic Party put the word out that Harris was their preferred candidate.
This move effectively cut off any chance Sanchez had at raising money, winning
influential endorsements and getting the party rank and file behind her.

Not only did Harris pick up the endorsements of California Gov. Jerry Brown and
the California Democratic Party, she also got the blessing of President Obama
and Vice President Joe Biden.

In a written statement released by the Harris campaign, the president and vice
president said, "Kamala Harris fights for us. That's why I'm so proud to endorse
her for United States senator. ... And if you send her to the Senate, she'll be
a fearless fighter for the people of California - all the people of California -
every single day."

There's mass speculation that former San Francisco Mayor and current California
Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom could get the same kind of home cooking in his bid for
governor in 2018.

And If another former San Francisco Mayor, Dianne Feinstein, decides to seek
another six-year-term in the U.S. Senate in 2018, her support within the
Democratic Party will surely be locked down.

The most likely outcome is that the Northern California dominance of the state's
top-of-the-ticket offices will continue for another generation.

How did this happen when most of the state's population lives south of
Bakersfield? Easy. A clique of San Francisco Bay politicians control the
Democratic Party in a one-party state, and they take care of their friends and
neighbors.

Just look at the roster; Jerry Brown is a former mayor of Oakland, House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi represents San Francisco in Congress, California
Democratic Party Chairman John Burton used to represent San Francisco in the
state Legislature, and Democratic Party sugar daddy Tom Steyer resides in the
City by the Bay.

At a certain point, Southern California Democrats will have to accept the
reality that they've hit their political ceiling when they become a big-city
mayor or congressman, or a state legislative leader.

Or, they're going to have to beat the machine.

Option B is easier said than done and would require the type of
coalition-building that Sanchez was incapable of doing, which would almost
certainly involve California Republicans.

Eventually, some politician will beat the machine. The only question is when.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             579 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Corbynization of Democratic Party

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 941 words


The Democratic Party's current festival of re-examination is both necessary and
justified. They have just lost to the most unpopular presidential candidate in
recent memory. Lockstep media support and a much larger war chest were not
enough to save them from losing not only the presidency, but also in state races
across the country.

Since President Obama's first election, Democrats have lost control of the House
and Senate, as well as a dozen governors' houses and roughly 900 state
legislative seats. Republicans have control of all levels of government in 24
states, while Democrats have total control over six. Overall, the party seems
incapable of reaching out to the middle part of the country, white and
middle-class voters.

This contrasts with the 1990s, when a group of party activists consciously
rebuilt the party to appeal to middle-class Americans. Groups like the
Democratic Leadership Council - for whose think tank, the Progressive Policy
Institute, I worked for several years - pushed notions of personal
responsibility, welfare reform, tough crime policies and economic growth that,
embraced by Bill Clinton, expanded the party's base in the Midwest, the
Appalachians and even the Southeast.

Leftward Ho!

Such a shift to the middle is unlikely today. Progressives generally see Hillary
Clinton's loss as largely a rejection of her husband's neoliberal policies and
want to push the party further to the left.

This parallels developments in the United Kingdom, where, following their defeat
in 2015, the La

bour Party promoted a far-left figure, Jeremy Corbyn, as its leader. This was
driven by grassroots progressives - deeply green, multiculturalist and openly
socialist. Many, including several high up in Labour's parliamentary party,
believe the party has little chance to win under such leadership.

Democrats face a similar dilemma. Driven by their dominant academic and media
"thought police," any shift to the middle on issues like crime, climate change
or regulation now seems unimaginable. Self-described progressives who now
dominate the party generally adhere to a series of policies - from open borders
to draconian climate change policies - that are unlikely to play well outside
the coastal enclaves.

Some of the criticism of Clintonian neoliberalism is somewhat justified. As the
emergence of both Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump suggests, support for
globalization and free trade has weakened in both parties. This reflects the
fact that economic gains have become increasingly concentrated since Clinton
left office, and even under the progressive hero, Barack Obama. It's hard to
argue, as the DLC did 25 years ago, for a more market-based system when the vast
majority fail to benefit while the upper echelons do much better.

So it is no surprise, then, that the hyperregulatory and redistributionist
agendas epitomized by Sens. Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders are now
ascendant. This pattern is exacerbated by the party's increasing indifference to
economic growth, in large part, due to their embrace of draconian climate change
policies. Climate change policies, as now constituted, tend to suppress
higher-wage, blue-collar employment. If you give up on growth to save the
planet, the only real solution remaining is massive redistribution, including a
web of subsidies to make up for the lack of income growth, affordable housing
and economic opportunity.

The multiculti trap

The Corbynization of the Democratic Party also turns on militant
multiculturalism. This agenda is shaped, as in Britain, by a disjointed concert
of grievance groups, ranging from gender activists to those who claim to
represent Latinos, African Americans, Asians, Muslims and others, whose
alienation has been exacerbated by Trump's triumph. Trump's nationalist rhetoric
is particularly disliked by progressives who, as author and New America fellow
Michael Lind notes in a recent National Review column, find the very idea of
borders and national interests reactionary and inherently racist.

This identity politics, some liberals note, has driven many whites into a
defensive crouch and pushed them toward the Republicans. Yet, there is little
sign that the party will move in their direction. After all, Hillary labeled
them "deplorables" - not much of a sales pitch. After the election, progressive
journalists have portrayed Trump voters as irredeemably racist, misogynist,
stupid and even too "fat." Summing up, suggests Slate's Jamelle Bouie, there's
no such thing as a "good Trump voter."

Inside the progressive echo chamber, many still believe that an alliance of
minorities, gender activists and millennials will make their victory inevitable.
This can be seen in the tendency of Democrats, just as there is a palpable rise
in crime, to invite the militant Black Lives Matter movement into their tent.

Perhaps nothing more illustrates the Corbynite trend than the proposal to make
Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
Ellison does check off the diversity boxes, but also would place in party
leadership someone who has embraced the Nation of Islam, supports the boycott of
Israeli products and has compared 9-11 to the Reichstag fire that facilitated
the Nazi dictatorship.

Going left may be emotionally satisfying to Democrats who feel abandoned by
their less progressive fellow citizens. But abandoning the middle of the
spectrum does not seem an effective way to get back into power.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             580 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Officials denounce Trump's fraud claim;
Election authorities say no evidence for charge

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 709 words

ABSTRACT

LDN-Z-TRUMP-FRAUD-CAL | Los Angeles County's elections chief denounced
allegations by President-elect Donald Trump of widespread election fraud,
calling it a "broad brush" accusation without substantiation that threatens to
undermine public confidence in the system. And California Secretary of State
Alex Padilla called the claims "baseless." From City News and AP 16" File photos
ETA: 3 PM

FULL TEXT

When President-elect Donald Trump claimed on Twitter that he was losing the
popular vote because of major fraud by millions of voters, one of the states he
pointed to was California, where the latest voting returns showed Hillary
Clinton, the Democrat, soundly defeating Trump.

But Trump's claim led to a furious reaction from California's top election
official, Alex Padilla, the secretary of state, this past weekend. Padilla
asserted that there was no evidence for the claim by the president-elect and
denounced Trump for what he said was unpresidential behavior.

"His unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in California

and elsewhere are absurd," Padilla posted on Twitter. "His reckless tweets are
inappropriate and unbecoming of a president-elect."

Los Angeles County's elections chief also denounced the allegations, calling it
a "broad brush" accusation without substantiation that threatens to undermine
public confidence in the system.

"It is frustrating to see this ongoing politicization of the voting process even
as California elections administrators continue the tedious and transparent
process of canvassing the Nov. 8 general election," said Dean Logan, the
county's registrar-recorder/county clerk and president of the California
Association of Clerks and Election Officials.

"Broad brush allegations of voter fraud and illegal voting serve only to
undermine the public's trust and confidence in the elections process and run the
risk of further deflating voter participation," he said. "California elections
administrators take the integrity of elections and access to voting very
seriously. Our state has a history of accurate and accountable elections.
Additionally, the voting process in California is open, transparent and subject
to public oversight and review."

California has historically been slow to count ballots, a reflection of both its
vast size and inefficiencies in many county voting operations. Given the fact
that this is an overwhelmingly Democratic state, that has meant that Clinton's
total vote count has grown steadily as ballots were tallied, adding to a
national lead of close to 2 million votes.

As of Saturday, Clinton had 8.1 million votes in California, compared with 4.2
million for Trump, according to the secretary of state's office. It was not
clear when the vote count might be concluded.

The count, and outcome, has been no surprise to anyone in a state with a history
of slow vote-counting. Officials in both parties had predicted this would happen
as early as election night.

Given California's long Democratic history, it was never in play during this
presidential election. But as the nation's most populated state, it tends to
have a significant influence on final national voting margins, as is apparently
the case this year.

Trump singled out three states in his tweet on "serious voter fraud": Virginia,
New Hampshire and California. He offered no evidence to back up the claim.

His remarks came as he denounced calls for a recount in three states that he won
by relatively small margins: Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. Jill Stein,
who was the Green Party candidate for president, said that she would move for a
recount. Aides to Clinton said they would cooperate with the effort, even as
they made it clear they thought it would not change the outcome.

Padilla is the highest-ranking Latino elected to state office in California.
Trump's poor showing here, many Democrats and Republicans said, came in no small
part because of his attacks on what he described as the threat of illegal
immigration, particularly by Mexicans. About 40 percent of California's
population is Latino.

"It appears that Mr. Trump is troubled by the fact that a growing majority of
Americans did not vote for him," Padilla said.

City News Service and The New York Times News Service contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             581 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Red state/blue state: Where would you rather live?

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 715 words


"The pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue
states," Barack Obama famously observed in 2004, several years before he ran for
president. "But I've got news for them: There's the United States of America."

Twelve years later, Obama is about to depart the White House, and by now he has
probably learned there are significant differences between so-called "red"
states that tend to vote Republican in presidential elections and "blue" ones
that usually support Democrats. The colors, of course, come from maps often used
as television graphics during election coverage.

What are some of those differences? While campaigning - at least before Donald
Trump - Republicans have tended to focus on values, claiming families and
traditional marriages are stronger in red states than blue ones, while Democrats
contend poor people, minorities and women are better off in blue ones.

California, of course, has been a consistently blue state since 1992, when Bill
Clinton carried it with a plurality of the vote against the elder George Bush,
not winning an actual majority here until 1996.

Republicans often say California Democrats have wrecked the Golden State over
the last 25 years, citing what they insist is a declining quality of life and an
expanded role for government.

It's true Democrats have dominated the Legislature almost all that time, passing
laws that regulate everything from cellphone use in cars to teaching about gay
history in high schools. A "nanny state," many Republicans call it, ignoring the
fact Republican governors like Pete Wilson and Arnold Schwarzenegger signed off
on most of the new regulations Democrats passed in the last quarter-century.

Ethnically speaking, California became blue when its Latinos began to get
politically active. But in many other ways, this is statistically a pretty
standard blue state, and there are major differences between those states and
their red rivals. Here are some (based on U.S. Census data):

o Blue states tend to have a more educated populace; California is fairly
typical with 37.4 percent of adults holding college degrees. Deeply blue
Massachusetts (despite its Republican governor) ranks first in this category
with 53.4 percent of adults holding at least a bachelor's degree. At the bottom
in this category is a corps of red states including Alaska at 26.6 percent,
Texas at 32.2 percent and Arizona with 33 percent.

o Red states tend to have a far higher percentage of people abusing drugs, led
by West Virginia with 25.8 persons out of every 100,000 dying of drug overdoses
each year, Utah with 18.4 and Alaska 18.1 in 2008, the last year for which
statistics are available. Red states like Louisiana, Arizona, Alabama, Oklahoma
and Tennessee all topped 14 per 100,000 in this sad category. California, again
in drug abuse a fairly normal blue state, saw only 10.4 persons out of every
100,000 take fatal overdoses, both from illegal drugs and prescription ones.
(Statistics from the Policy Impact Report of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.)

o A little counterintuitive, the map of states with the highest Census-reported
divorce rates is also almost all red, including Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alaska,
Alabama, Kentucky, Nevada (the only blue state here, but also the only state
with an active quickie divorce industry), Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee and
Arizona.

o Unemployment, on the other hand, is a mixed bag. In the latest Department of
Labor statistics, three red states (Alaska, Louisiana and West Virginia) are
among the top six, with Alaska leading the unfortunate way at 6.7 percent, but
they are joined by three usually blue states (Illinois, New Mexico and the
District of Columbia).

o Red state citizens tend to be more charitable, with the eight states donating
the highest share of their personal income to charity - Utah, Mississippi,
Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina, Idaho, Arkansas and Georgia - all pretty
reliably Republican. (Data from the Chronicle of Philanthropy.)

All of which raises some questions: Do Republican "family values" equate to
higher divorce rates and lower college education? Does going Democratic make
people less charitable? Or are none of these things linked to politics at all?

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             582 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 359 words

ABSTRACT

For all LANG papers

FULL TEXT

We asked readers, What should be Donald Trump's top priority as president?


New president should let Constitution be his guide

Donald Trump's top priority should be to learn and understand the Constitution
and the complexity of the presidency. I'm totally devastated by the outcome of
this presidential election, which was predicated on hate, fear, racism, bigotry
and lies.

Having the likes of a man like Trump becoming president of the U.S. is
frightening. I am hoping that this glorious country of ours isn't decimated by
this uninformed man who truly doesn't know how the U.S. government operates.

The job of the president is too important to hand over to a man not qualified,
who has a volatile temperament and is thin-skinned to criticism.

- Lois Eisenberg, Valencia

First, close the border

Trump should close the border first, stop the chaos and support the border
guards.

- Patricia Serio, Covina

Quit while he's ahead?

President-elect Trump's top priority should be resigning from office before he's
impeached.

- Ray Sherman, Duarte

A neutral view of Trump

I don't know what to think about Donald Trump's plans. Some I support, others I
don't. Love him or deplore him, he's got everyone's attention and it's been a
compelling story to watch unfold. Who knows what drama, success and failures
will emerge in the next four years?

One concern is how all the major news media lost credibility with biased
reporting. I commend the newspaper for trying to remain neutral.

- Lynn Wood, Long Beach

Follow the popular vote

He lost by more than 2 million votes; he should accept that he was not the
choice of the American people, and not accept a prize that he did not earn. He
can instruct electors pledged to him to vote for the real winner: Hillary
Clinton.

Let him avoid the example of Sarah Palin, who learned she couldn't be the boss
of everything and quit in the middle of her term as Alaska governor to make more
money.

- Stephen Kandis, Rancho Palos Verdes

More answers to this Question of the Week will be published Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             583 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Trump's expected choice to lead Treasury: Mnuchin;
Longtime Trump acquaintance, is a former Goldman Sachs partner who has worked in
hedge funds and Hollywood finance and has no government experience.

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1059 words


WASHINGTON >> Steven Terner Mnuchin, a financier with deep roots on Wall Street
and in Hollywood but no government experience, is expected to be named Donald J.
Trump's Treasury secretary as soon as Wednesday, sources close to the transition
say.

Mnuchin, 53, was the national finance chairman for Trump's campaign. He began
his career at Goldman Sachs, where he became a partner, before creating his own
hedge fund, moving to the West Coast and entering the first rank of movie
financiers by bankrolling hits like the "X-Men" franchise and "Avatar."

As Treasury secretary, Mnuchin would play an important role in shaping the
administration's economic policies, including a package of promised tax cuts,
increased spending on infrastructure and changes in the terms of foreign trade.
He could also help lead any effort to roll back President Barack Obama's nuclear
deal with Iran and opening to Cuba by reimposing sanctions on Tehran and Havana.

His selection fits uneasily with much of Trump's campaign rhetoric attacking the
financial industry. Trump, in a campaign ad intended as a closing argument,
portrayed the chief executive of Goldman Sachs as the personification of a
global elite that the ad said had "robbed our working class."

But Mnuchin has said that he agrees with Trump's priorities, and he was an early
supporter of a candidate who clearly prizes loyalty.

When Trump won New York's Republican presidential primary in April, Mnuchin
attended the victory party. The next day, he accepted Trump's invitation to
become the campaign's national finance director.

Mnuchin, the son of a Goldman Sachs partner, joined the firm after graduating
from Yale University. He worked there for 17 years, rising to oversee trading in
government securities and mortgage bonds.

Mnuchin has never worked in government, but Treasury secretaries are often drawn
from the private sector. He would become the third Goldman alumnus to serve in
the job, after Henry M. Paulson Jr., under President George W. Bush; and Robert
E. Rubin, under President Bill Clinton.

Transportation: Chao

She is a woman and an immigrant, a fixture of the Republican establishment for
two decades. She is a savvy and professional practitioner of the capital's
inside game.

And now she is going to work for President-elect Donald Trump.

Trump named Elaine L. Chao on Tuesday as his choice to be the next secretary of
transportation, elevating someone whose background and experience are in many
respects completely at odds with the brash and disruptive tenor of his
anti-Washington campaign.

But her selection also signaled Trump's understanding of the need to surround
himself with people who can help him accomplish the most ambitious parts of his
agenda, even if they come from the political establishment he has so often
scorned.

His transportation secretary is likely to be one of the more essential players.
Trump, a real estate magnate, has said that infrastructure redevelopment will be
a priority of his first 100 days in office. And Chao has experience -
politically and personally - in navigating the competing centers of power in the
capital. She is married to Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the majority leader.

This will be her second time serving in a White House Cabinet if she is
confirmed. As secretary of labor under President George W. Bush, she was the
only official in his administration to serve all eight years.

Before that, she worked in various departments across the federal government.
She was a White House fellow under President Ronald Reagan and the director of
the Peace Corps under President George Bush, who also named her deputy
transportation secretary.

Her r[#xfffd]sum[#xfffd] speaks to the ease with which she runs in powerful
circles in Washington and beyond. She has worked for Harvard's Kennedy School of
Government as well as the conservative Heritage Foundation. She was also a
frequent commentator on Fox News, a role that several of Trump's other Cabinet
picks and candidates share, like K.T. McFarland, whom he named as his deputy
national security adviser.

She adds some diversity to a Cabinet that is so far heavily older, white and
male. Chao, 63, was born in Taiwan and moved to the U.S. with her family when
she was 8.

While the public aspects of her life are well known, Chao has also played an
integral, behind-the-scenes role in her husband's political career, most
recently as he fought off efforts to unseat him in 2014. Described by friends
and colleagues as unrelenting, she occasionally stepped out into the public eye
to take on her husband's antagonists.

Sometimes they also came for her, and she was happy to take them on as well.
After a liberal Kentucky group suggested in 2013 that Chao was somehow connected
to the flight of U.S. jobs to China - a jab evidently intended to portray
McConnell as too cozy with U.S. business interests - she starred in a commercial
and rushed to his defense. "Far-left special interests are also attacking my
ethnicity, even attacking Mitch's patriotism, because he's married to me," she
said. "That's how low some people will stoop."

Trump was impressed by her energy and drive, a senior transition official said,
speaking anonymously to reveal the private interactions between Chao and the
president-elect. He also admired her no-nonsense attitude, this official said.

But now that she is in line for a prominent position in Trump's Cabinet, it is
her own ties to business that are likely to come under scrutiny. As labor
secretary, she faced criticism that her department favored business and was lax
on enforcement and worker safety.

At the time, she dismissed those concerns as "partisan."

Return of Romney

The president-elect summoned a former foe, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney, for dinner Tuesday night to discuss the secretary of state job for a
second time.

Trump also met with Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, having met with former CIA director David Petraeus the day
before.

After his meeting, Corker told reporters, "The world needs to know that the
secretary of state is someone who speaks fully for the president," a possible
jab at former GOP presidential nominee Romney, who aggressively opposed Trump's
candidacy.

Transition aides said Trump was likely at least a few days away from a decision.

The New York Times and Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             584 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Rep. Xavier Becerra nominated for California attorney general

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper and Don Thompson; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 543 words

ABSTRACT

Gov. Jerry Brown on Thursday named a high-profile member of Congress to be
California's next attorney general, an appointment that likely will help
preserve the soon-departing governor's record on climate change and criminal
justice changes

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> Gov. Jerry Brown on Thursday named a liberal Democratic member of
Congress to be California's next attorney general, an appointment that likely
will help preserve the governor's record on climate change and criminal justice
changes when he departs in two years.

Brown's selection of U.S. Rep. Xavier Becerra to succeed newly elected U.S. Sen.
Kamala Harris also reshuffles the Latino power structure in the nation's most
populous state, while ending speculation about whether the governor would
appoint a caretaker or an ambitious fellow Democrat for the second-highest
statewide office.

Becerra, 58, is a rising star in the party who served as a high-profile Latino
surrogate for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's campaign this
year. He was widely discussed as a potential cabinet appointee if Clinton won.

But with the election of Trump and a Republican sweep of both houses of
Congress, his 24-year tenure in the House is no longer as appealing. In the
attorney general's position, Becerra could serve through 2018 then seek another
eight years after that.

"I'm confident he will be a champion for all Californians and help our state
aggressively combat climate change," the Democratic governor said in a
statement.

If confirmed as expected by the state Legislature, Becerra will be the state's
chief law enforcement officer and will oversee the legal defense of California's
aggressive efforts to control greenhouse gases. He'll also preside over likely
skirmishes between the state's liberal lawmakers and the administration of
Republican President-elect Donald Trump.

He's also likely to defend the governor's dramatic criminal justice changes,
including recently approved Proposition 57 that allows for earlier paroles, said
Michael Rushford, president of the conservative Criminal Justice Legal
Foundation.

"The governor has done a lot of things with regards to criminal justice policy
that I suspect he wants to have kept in place," Rushford said. "So I would be
surprised if you were going to get an attorney general who was going to look at
his policies unfavorably."

The choice also immediately adds Becerra to the long list of California
Democrats who could be contenders for governor or U.S. Senate in the coming
years, said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a public policy professor and political
analyst at the University of Southern California.

The list already includes Lt. Gov. Gavin Newson, state Controller John Chiang,
former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, Senate President Pro Tem Kevin de
Leon and wealthy Democratic donor Tom Steyer.

Trump's election upended Becerra's path to influence in Washington, said Thad
Kousser, chairman of the political science department at the University of
California, San Diego.

"Washington, D.C., is now red territory, so if he wants to have an impact on
policy, California's the place to do it," Kousser said.

The Democratic governor noted Becerra's service in Congress, in the state
Legislature and as a deputy attorney general.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             585 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

Democrats may turn left - off a cliff

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 609 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

When a political party loses a national election, it typically spends the next
several months digging through the rubble and doing some serious soul searching.
In order to regain its competitiveness in the next election cycle, the losing
party usually pours through all of the data in an attempt to figure out why the
American people rejected its candidates and platform.

In the 2016 presidential election, it's not hard to figure out what went wrong
for Hillary Clinton and the Democrats - white, working-class voters abandoned
the party of Jackson and Roosevelt in record numbers. These defections helped
Republican Donald Trump win the once reliably blue Rust Belt states of
Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin and ultimately the nation.

If the Democrats are going to bounce back in the 2018 mid-term elections,
they're going to have to bring these voters back into the tent - it's as simple
as that.

If anything, given which Senate seats will be up for election, these blue collar
white voters will have even more of an impact in 2018 than they did in 2016.

In the next cycle, Democrats will be defending senate seats in Florida, Indiana,
Michigan, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and
Wisconsin - all states that went for Trump. The Republicans will be defending
only one Senate seat in a state that Clinton won, Nevada.

There's no question the map favors the GOP.

The first major decision the Democrats will have to make is who will replace the
interim chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, Donna Brazile.

As of now, the favorite appears to be liberal Minnesota Congressman Keith
Ellison.

Ellison, the only Muslim member of Congress, has already racked up some
high-profile endorsements, including Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, incoming
Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer and filmmaker Michael Moore.

However, given Ellison's long history of associating with radicals and making
extreme statements on race and other matters, he may not be the Democrats' best
messenger to communicate with blue collar America.

As a third-year law student at the University of Minnesota, Ellison wrote
columns for the Minnesota Daily under the name Keith Hakim. In these op-ed
pieces, Ellison demanded reparations for slavery and an optional separate
country for American blacks.

Ellison organized a rallythat featured Nation of Islam spokesman Khalid Abdul
Muhammad. At the rally Muhammad declared, "If words were swords, the chests of
Jews, gays and whites would be pierced."

Ellison has since tried to distance himself from these off-the-wall statements
and boutique beliefs. However, all indications are that he continued to publicly
defend Louis Farrakhan and the Nation of Islam through at least the year 2000,
when he was an elected member of the Minnesota state Legislature.

More recently, Ellison made headlines by declaring Cuban dictator Fidel Castro's
legacy to be a "mixed bag."

While speaking to Sirius XM's Karen Hunter, Ellison said that while Castro
engaged in "harsh dictatorial tactics," he also stood up "for peace and freedom
in Africa." Ellison went on to argue, "If you look at his legacy you have to say
that he confronted people with a lot of power on behalf of people that didn't
have any."

OK, then. Thanks for clearing that up.

Tapping Congressman Ellison as chairman of the DNC may be cathartic for
shell-shocked Democrats, but he would be an unmitigated disaster for the party.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


                             586 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

TRYING TO GET TRUMP'S APPEAL, THE NON-HATE PART;
EDITOR'S COLUMN

BYLINE:  by PAUL FANLUND

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1046 words


The election-night outcome was technically in doubt, but clear enough for me to
turn down the television volume and begin writing last week's column, "Triumph
of the angry white guy," a diatribe about the racism, sexism and
small-mindedness that propelled Donald Trump to the presidency. It appeared
online the next day and soon the out-state emails rolled in. This one was
typical: "Where I come from, a person (who) uses stereotypes and broad
generalizations to categorize and denigrate a large and diverse group of people
who are not homogenous, well ... we'd call them a bigot. But then what do I
know? I'm just a white male ? in rural Wisconsin. I'm probably just angry,
unhinged and inarticulate."

Point taken, but for those repulsed by the Trump persona who seek to better
understand what motivates his backers, there looms this overarching question:
How can we genuinely empathize with the economic futility and lost status that
seems to haunt so much of rural, small-town Wisconsin when it comes packaged
with such raw disdain for minorities, women and knowledge workers?

Michael Schuler, pastor of Madison's liberal First Unitarian Society, directly
addressed that question in his sermon after the election. "Do some of our
citizens hold deeply repugnant views?" Schuler asked rhetorically. "Are there
racists, misogynists and xenophobes in our midst? Yes indeed.

"But as Katherine Cramer discovered in out-state Wisconsin, many are simply
hurting and feel abandoned. Feeling powerless, they looked outside their
communities for the source of their problems and came up with a short list of
scapegoats, an assessment we city folk have done little to disconfirm."

In mentioning Cramer, Schuler was referring to the University of
Wisconsin-Madison political scientist who gained acclaim by journeying to
restaurants and gas stations across the state intermittently over most of a
decade, humbly asking people to share thoughts on public affairs and writing
about it. Cramer's book, "The Politics of Resentment," struck a chord with a
national audience.

I first met Cramer and wrote about her work in December 2010, before Scott
Walker had been inaugurated and before we knew that "Act 10" would become
shorthand for the demise of public worker unions. I wrote then: "Her insights
have special resonance these days as Madison braces for an incoming Republican
government ? a governor and legislative majorities ? that gained great political
advantage exploiting the out-state image of Madison and its huge university as
smug, selfish and out-of-touch."

Sound familiar?

Just before the presidential election, the Washington Post featured Cramer in a
story headlined: "A new theory for why Trump voters are so angry ? that actually
makes sense." The fissure, she told the Post, is about "personal identity,"
adding that those she interviewed through the years "felt a deep sense of
bitterness toward elites and city dwellers; just about all of them felt tread
on, disrespected and cheated out of what they felt they deserved."

So, after Trump won, I reached out to Cramer, who had been conducting
post-election listening sessions. She emailed that she was "squirreled away" in
Bayfield in far northern Wisconsin for the post-election weekend to reflect on
what she had heard. While she joked about her work showing up in a Madison
sermon, her mood in our telephone interview was contemplative and serious.

She told me she had reconnected with a group from a small Portage County
community featured in her book. Eight of the nine men in that group said they
were Republicans. They met last week in the back of a warehouse.

Said Cramer, "It's such a contrast to Madison, because Madison, in general, is
grieving, and these folks, for the first time I've known them in over eight
years, they were hopeful about the future."

One man said some racist things, she said, "but aside from him, they were
acknowledging that Trump has said some really horrendous things on the campaign
trail. But the appeal is really this idea that he's going to shake things up and
that he represents change, and his character is just not the issue," she added.
There was also, Cramer said she was sorry to tell me, a pronounced
"stick-it-to-themedia- thing" in the comments.

Cramer paused and added, "It's been very difficult for me, with the people I
study as well as with my students on campus, to work through (the question): ?If
you vote for a man who's endorsed by the KKK, what does that make you? Aren't
you a bigot by association?' " Perhaps ironically, Cramer noted her subjects did
not really expect huge positive change for themselves in a Trump presidency.

"I asked them, ?OK, you're hopeful. Tell me what you hope is going to change
around here. Five years from now, ideally, what is life like around here?' And
initially, their response to me was, ?Well, it's not going to be that different.
Not that much is going to change around here. Presidential elections don't
really matter for this community.' "OK, so then why vote for this man? I mean, I
didn't say that out loud, but they did eventually start talking about how they
hope the economy in Stevens Point would pick up and that that would then make
things better for them, that there would be more job opportunities."

Despite the friction over Trump, Cramer still uses words like "genuine, kind,
compassionate, generous and human" to describe those she interviewed.

So, I ask Cramer, does she see a path to us becoming one state again, one in
which progressives see Trump supporters as primarily seeking radical economic
change and not so closely identified with the many ugly things he has said and
done?

She paused and said, "My own conviction of the importance and centrality of
listening for (the sake of) democracy has really been rattled. I, like many
people, have spent a lot of sleepless hours thinking, ?What is going to happen
to my country, and by electing Donald Trump, have we just put in danger millions
of people?' " Cramer said she will continue her work to reconnect with those she
has visited through the years. "Do they experience a change in the quality of
their lives, and do they notice? Do they attribute it to Trump? I am just trying
to figure out where the heck we go from here."

In that quest, she has plenty of company.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY EVAN VUCCI/ ASSOCIATED PRESS Supporters reach out to
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump during a campaign rally in Green
Bay. PHOTO BY MIKE DEVRIES Kathy Cramer, a UW-Madison political scientist who
wrote a book titled "The Politics of Resentment" after traveling across rural
Wisconsin, is back in the field and asking questions following Donald Trump's
victory.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             587 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

IT'S TIME TO END THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE

BYLINE:  by SPENCER BLACK

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 608 words


Donald Trump was right. The election was rigged. Just not the way he claimed.

The election was rigged by the archaic and undemocratic method that we currently
use to anoint the president. For the second time in past five presidential
elections, the candidate who got the most votes lost and the person who earned
fewer votes won.

The culprit is the Electoral College, which dictates that the winner not be the
candidate who gets the most votes of the people but the candidate who receives a
majority of the votes of the 538 electors.

No other election in our country is decided in this manner. For every office
from county coroner to U.S. senator, the person who gets the most votes wins.
Just not for president.

Hillary Clinton was the choice of many more Americans than Donald Trump. When
all the votes are counted, her final margin over Trump may be as great as a
whopping 2 million votes.

The original rationale for the Electoral College was that voters didn't have
information about presidential contenders and it would be more sensible for them
to designate trusted individuals from their states to pick a president. Perhaps
that made sense in 1789 when transportation was by horse and buggy,
communication between states could take weeks and knowledge of the candidates
was limited. More than two centuries later, communication about presidential
candidates, to put it mildly, has changed substantially.

There is a major precedent to amending the Constitution to allow the people to
decide. Prior to 1913, the public did not elect the U.S. Senate. Senators were
selected by state legislatures. The 17th Amendment provided for the direct
election of U.S.

senators under the simple principle that whoever gets the most votes wins.

Many have called for a constitutional change to allow direct election of the
president. That includes Donald Trump. After Mitt Romney lost in 2012, Trump
tweeted: "The electoral college is a disaster for our democracy." He added that
the Electoral College is a "sham and a travesty" and that "the phony electoral
college makes a laughingstock out of our nation." What's he tweeting now?

Because presidential campaigns concentrate on just a few contested states, most
Americans aren't substantially involved in the most important election in the
country.

Some in Wisconsin contend that the Electoral College gives Wisconsin more
influence. Actually, not. The math is straightforward. Under direct election,
Wisconsin's popular vote would be a significantly larger percentage of the
overall vote than are our 10 votes out of 538 in the Electoral College. The
Electoral College is fundamentally undemocratic. Why is a vote cast in Wyoming
three times more important than a vote cast in Wisconsin?

The current Electoral College system has another, less obvious but potentially
very significant flaw. We don't actually vote for president, but for electors
who can vote however they choose. While this is rarely a problem, it might well
have been in the past election. An elector from Washington state (who will vote
in the Electoral College in December because Hillary Clinton won his state) said
he won't vote for Clinton even though she won that state handily. Clinton
winning the Electoral College by a vote was a very real possibility (had she won
Florida and Wisconsin, for example). However, this elector could have
single-handedly denied Clinton the victory despite the people's votes. Even
though a majority of Americans voted against Donald Trump, he will have the
power to radically alter our nation. We must amend the Constitution to get rid
of the Electoral College and let the people decide who our president will be.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Spencer Black represented the 77th Assembly District for 26 years. He is
vice president of the national Sierra Club and is an adjunct professor at
UW-Madison.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             588 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW PROFS, JOURNALISTS DISCUSS SOCIAL MEDIA, CONSERVATIVE MOVEMENT, ELECTION
RESULTS;
POLITICS

BYLINE:  by KATELYN FERRAL

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 598 words


On display during the 2016 presidential campaign were the power of social media,
a disconnect with discontented rural voters, the struggles of the Democratic
Party and fractures within the Republican Party.

Researchers and journalists discussed those issues with hundreds of people in a
packed and overflowing room at the Pyle Center at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison last week.

The panelists, Charlie Sykes, a conservative radio talk show host; Dave Weigel,
a reporter for the Washington Post; and Mike Wagner and Kathy Cramer, both
professors at the UW LaFollette School of Public Affairs, took questions from
the audience during the 90-minute session.

Sykes spoke extensively on the damage a Donald Trump presidency can do, and is
doing to the Republican Party.

"For me, this year has been like a chronic nightmare that I kept thinking we
were going to wake up from," Sykes said. "As a conservative, it's been like
watching the ?Invasion of the Body Snatchers.'" He said he has been surprised to
see the fractures in the party he thought was somewhat cohesive and principled.

"One of the things I found out was that the conservative movement was not what I
thought it was," he said.

He likened Trump's pick for White House chief strategist, Steve Bannon ? former
head of the Breitbart News website who has been criticized for making white
nationalist comments ? as a "cancer" who would open the party to more racism and
xenophobia.

Cramer, a professor at UW who studies rural issues in Wisconsin, said the
results reflect a common and longstanding attitude among those who don't live in
the state's major metropolitan areas.

The feeling of condescension and a lack of understanding is what a lot of folks
have been saying about the government and about politicians for quite some time
now, she said.

Now? It's time to listen, she said.

"I do think the way forward is to carefully listen to people," she said.
"Listening to folks conveys respect."

Weigel, who has covered the conservative movement extensively for the Washington
Post, said that he considers the election results an "existential challenge" to
the media industry, not necessarily a threat.

"What we wrote did not matter in terms of the information people thought was
relevant," he said.

Researchers said they are interested in better understanding how conventional
news outlets shaped ? or didn't shape ? peoples' views, and the growing
influence of social media.

"Donald Trump got more (negative) attention than anybody else, and on the one
hand, we might think that attention gave him a huge advantage. But isn't
negative information supposed to make us view people negatively?" said Wagner,
an associate professor.

"I'm curious as to unpack why that is."

Panelists agreed that Hillary Clinton faced incredible sexism throughout
campaign, but Sykes noted that she was also a flawed candidate in the eyes of
many voters. She brought extensive baggage and was a "retread" of the past.

"This is one of the things in American politics, if you want to win an election,
don't go back several decades," Sykes said. But, he said, the open contempt for
women that Trump showed did not seem to register with voters, and that was
surprising.

The panelists also discussed the influx of money in campaigns and Wisconsin's
district maps that were redrawn in 2011, some believe to specifically benefit
Republicans. Democrats will have to break through that to win in the future,
Weigel said.

"Those districts are still basically built to elect Republicans," he said.
Democrats will have to learn to "break into places that have been closed to
them."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY SAIYNA BASHIR Voters cast their ballots at Badger Rock
Neighborhood Center on Election Day.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             589 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

RECOUNTS PROVIDE ESSENTIAL UNDERPINNINGS FOR DEMOCRACY

BYLINE:  by JOHN NICHOLS , associate editor

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; John Nichols; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 959 words


The closest presidential election in modern American history was the 1960
contest between Democrat John Fitzgerald Kennedy and Republican Richard Nixon.
The popular vote split almost evenly; Kennedy won 49.72 percent to 49.55 for
Nixon, with the Democrat leading the Republican by just 112,827 votes
nationally. But that wasn't the real measure of the closeness of the 1960
contest. The real measure was found in the states. Ten states were decided by 2
percent of the vote or less, and eight of those states favored Kennedy. Kennedy
won Hawaii by 115 votes, Alaska by 846 votes, New Mexico by 2,294 votes,
Delaware by 3,217, Illinois by less than 9,000 votes, Missouri by barely 10,000
votes. In New Jersey, Kennedy prevailed by a mere 50-49 margin; in Texas, it was
51-49.

A shift toward Nixon in any of several combinations of states could have erased
Kennedy's Electoral College advantage, as the distribution gave him just 34 more
electoral votes than he needed to prevail.

Nixon refused to pursue recounts ? fearing, as he later wrote: "Charges of ?sore
loser' would follow me through history and remove any possibility of a further
political career." But Republican National Committee Chairman Thruston Morton
kept raising concerns about irregularities in Illinois and Texas. And Morton
kept arguing that many of the state results were close enough to merit a review
of voting that might yet shift the election from Kennedy to Nixon. Morton was
not alone; members of Nixon's inner circle encouraged inquiries, investigations,
reviews and recounts in the better part of a dozen states. Trusted Republicans
were sent to conduct "field checks" in states where the results were close,
legal challenges were mounted, and several recounts took place.

As is usually the case with reviews and recounts, not much changed in the
challenger's favor. Indeed, a recount in Hawaii tipped the state from Nixon
column to Kennedy's. So be it. Morton and those who raised objections and
challenges did the right thing. When elections produce a close or controversial
result, it is appropriate for candidates who are on the losing end of the count
to ask questions and to pursue remedies. No one expects the candidates who are
ahead on election night to object; they are too busy claiming "mandates" that
were never actually accorded them.

It falls to candidates who hold out small hope for a reversal of fortune (or, in
some rare cases, no hope at all) to demand that every vote be counted and
counted accurately. This is one of the reasons why states allow for recounts and
reviews of voting.

Unfortunately, in an age of hyper-partisan spin and know-nothing media, there is
a tendency to see demands for recounts as the burdensome expressions of sore
losers. Sometimes they are that. But for those of us who concern ourselves with
the functioning of the elections that confer authority on executives and
legislators, recounts are understood as fundamental underpinnings of democracy.
They only rarely overturn initial results. But even when they simply confirm
those results, they give us all greater confidence in systems that can only
serve their purpose if citizens see those systems as fair and functional.

Seen in this context, the Green Party's request for recounts in the three
closely contested states of Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania ? which now
favor Republican Donald Trump but which could, if they flipped to Democrat
Hillary Clinton, give the Democrat enough electoral votes to claim the
presidency ? should be welcomed.

The prospect of a recount in Wisconsin and the other states has unsettled Trump,
who is objecting with one of his now infamous Twitterstorms. As obsessive as
ever, Trump has objected that the recount project is a "scam," called it "sad"
and announced that "it won't change anything." He has targeted Clinton for
abuse, even though she has said nothing (attorneys for her campaign will observe
the process in Wisconsin, as, presumably, will lawyers for the Trump camp).

Trump may be right that nothing will change. But it is silly to get so upset
about recounts ? especially after a 2016 election that produced close and
conflicting results.

The 2016 presidential race was not as close as the 1960 race. Clinton is the
clear winner of the popular vote. While votes are still being counted in several
states, the Democrat is now ahead by more than 2.3 million votes, and election
analysts expect that lead to grow before all the counting is done. Unlike
Kennedy, who had a popular-vote win to validate his Electoral College advantage,
Trump only leads in the Electoral College. And that lead is based on narrow
results from several states.

In Wisconsin, a shift of around 11,000 votes, out of almost 3 million cast,
would flip the state to Clinton.

In Pennsylvania, it would take a shift of roughly 35,000 votes out of over 6
million cast to flip the state to Clinton.

In Michigan, a shift of around 6,000 votes, out of roughly 4.8 million cast,
would flip the state to Clinton.

Observers who are familiar with recounts will tell you that upsets of results
such as these are rare. But the recounts proposed by the Greens also seek to
resolve questions about human errors and mechanical mishaps and to relieve
concerns about the remote prospect of hacking.

"We are standing up for an election system that we can trust; for voting systems
that respect and encourage our vote, and make it possible for all of us to
exercise our constitutional right to vote," explains Jill Stein, who was on the
ballot in all three states this year as the Green Party presidential nominee.

That's a reasonable stand to take.

It strengthens and advances the cause of democracy ? which, at this point, could
use all the strengthening and advancement we can provide.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  jnichols@madison.com and@NicholsUprising

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS Jill Stein, who was the Green
Party candidate for president, is working to raise money for recounts in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania ? three states that were expected to go for
Hillary Clinton but voted narrowly for Donald Trump.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             590 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW POLICY ANALYST CAUTIONS TRUMP'S CABINET PICK MAY TARGET HIGHER EDUCATION FOR
PRIVATIZATION;
EDUCATION

BYLINE:  by PAT SCHNEIDER

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 460 words


UW-Madison's Clifton Conrad cautions that Betsy DeVos' track record of advocacy
for charter schools for elementary and high school students may indicate that
President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for secretary of education will push to
privatize public higher education too.

"I have an underlying fear that her uncompromising commitment to deregulating
charter schools in Michigan signals that she will advance the privatization of
higher education? with increased funding for for-profit institutions, sabotaging
our public colleges and universities and in, in turn, their longstanding
contributions to the public good," Conrad said Monday in an email message.

Conrad is a professor in the School of Education and faculty director of the
Wisconsin Center for the Advancement of Postsecondary Education at UW-Madison.

DeVos, who led the Michigan Republican Party from 1996-2000, is a leader in the
national school-choice movement. She has supported political candidates who
favor charter schools and voucher programs for low-income K-12 students as chair
of the American Federation for Children, the political arm of the Alliance for
School Choice, a nonprofit advocacy organization.

Trump supported a major expansion of school choice programs during the
presidential campaign.

DeVos' lack of experience in higher education issues, however, is raising some
concern, as is the fact she has never worked for an educational institution.

Conrad said flatly that DeVos "is not qualified for this position."

DeVos' resume gaps are drawing concern from varied quarters. Neal McCluskey,
director of the libertarian-leaning Cato Institute's Center for Educational
Freedom, said the Department of Education's role in higher education is
gigantic, the Chronicle of Higher Education reported.

"DeVos will essentially be taking over a hugely bureaucratic lending company ?
with lots of regulatory power ? that on a dayto- day basis could prove to be a
far greater burden than she expected," McCluskey wrote in an analysis of her
nomination.

Donald E. Heller, provost at the University of San Francisco who was previously
dean of the College of Education at Michigan State University, told the
Chronicle that DeVos may loosen enforcement of regulations on for-profit
colleges. The Obama administration took a hard line on schools whose students go
deep into debt but leave without credentials for a well-paying job.

DeVos' past work with faith-based organizations could suggest that she would
push for federal funding for private and religious institutions at the expense
of public institutions," Heller said.

But DeVos does bring some skill to the table, he acknowledged.

"One advantage she brings, to be fair, is that she's very involved in the
political process and policy," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY CAROLYN KASTER/ AP Presidentelect Trump and Betsy DeVos pose
for photographs at Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in Bedminster,
N.J.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             591 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

ELECTIONS OFFICIALS SET 'CHALLENGING,' 'AGGRESSIVE' TIMELINE FOR PRESIDENTIAL
RECOUNT;
POLITICS

BYLINE:  by JESSIE OPOIEN

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 661 words


Wisconsin elections officials on Monday approved an "aggressive" timeline for a
presidential recount expected to start later this week.

Green Party candidate Jill Stein and Reform Party candidate Roque "Rocky" De La
Fuente filed separate petitions late Friday afternoon for a recount in
Wisconsin, which would be the state's first in a presidential election.

Wisconsin officials estimate a presidential recount in the state will cost
nearly $3.5 million.

Payment was due from either or both campaigns by 4:30 p.m. Tuesday to trigger a
recount order. If both campaigns pay in full, half the cost will be refunded to
each candidate.

The timeline is "tight and aggressive," said elections supervisor Ross Hein.

"It is going to be very challenging for many of our county clerks and canvass
members to complete this recount in less than two weeks," Hein said.

The last statewide recount conducted in Wisconsin was in the 2011 state Supreme
Court race between Justice David Prosser and Judge JoAnne Kloppenburg. That
recount tightened Prosser's victory margin from 7,316 votes to 7,004 votes.

The 2011 recount didn't face the federal deadline pressures that govern this
one, with a federal Dec. 13 deadline to certify electoral votes.

The biggest challenge in meeting that deadline could be finding enough people to
work evenings and weekends to complete the recount, elections administrator
Michael Haas said.

Elections Commission chairman Mark Thomsen noted the commission's first official
notice of the potential for a recount came at 3 p.m. the Friday after
Thanksgiving.

"You've got to assume a lot of people were deer hunting, a lot of people were
spending time with family for Thanksgiving," he said.

The commission rejected Stein's request to order a hand recount, instead leaving
it up to each county to determine whether to count votes by hand or by machine.

Stein received about 31,000 votes in Wisconsin, where president-elect Donald
Trump defeated Democratic former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton by about
22,000 votes.

A lawyer for Clinton's campaign said Saturday the campaign would participate in
the recount "to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all
sides." Trump criticized the effort on Twitter.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," Trump tweeted
Sunday, although no evidence exists to back up his claim.

Thomsen said it is "inappropriate" to suggest the state's votes weren't properly
tabulated or that illegal votes were counted.

Thomsen said he'd like Trump to "come down out of his Trump Tower" and spend
time watching poll workers in Waushara or Wautoma counties. To say votes are
being counted illegally is "an insult to the people that run our elections," he
said.

Asked why he wasn't more critical of Stein for suggesting the election was
compromised, Thomsen noted she received just 1 percent of the vote in Wisconsin,
while Trump is the president-elect.

"Someone has the bully pulpit, someone has an impact on our citizens' right to
trust what happens down the block at their polling places," he said. "I've never
seen this kind of attack on poll workers and how this system works."

Stein has alleged Wisconsin's election results could have been manipulated by a
cyber-attack. Haas said elections officials are "skeptical" of those claims. The
state's machines are not connected to the internet.

A person would have to physically access each individual voting machine to
tamper with the state's election results, Hein said.

Thomsen said he expects the recount will not change the results.

"If nothing else, this will give us a very good audit," Thomsen said. "It's
going to reassure Wisconsin voters that we have a fair system, that we're not
counting illegal votes, we're not counting dead people's votes and it's really,
really important to know that in Wisconsin, elections are fair and accurate and
conducted by hardworking people."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY SAIYNA BASHIR Jamyia Jordan waits while her aunt Tiffany Suggs
casts her vote at Leopold Elementary School on Election Day.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             592 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

ENOUGH WITH MANSPLAINING HILLARY'S DEFEAT;
EDITOR'S COLUMN

BYLINE:  by PAUL FANLUND

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1091 words


From reading the torrent of progressive post-mortems since the presidential
election, it is hard to believe there ever was anything good to say about
Hillary Clinton.

Not her lifetime of tireless work devoted to the welfare of children and
families, nor her widely praised performances as a U.S. senator and secretary of
state. Instead of Clinton, some say, the candidate should have been Bernie
Sanders because he would have better aligned with the populist fever gripping
the nation. Of course that ignores how folks on the center left, let alone
genuine swing voters, would have reacted to his primal advocacy of unabashed
socialism, his support for taxpayer-paid college tuition and so forth.

Or at least, others argue, Clinton should have more strongly distanced herself
from the identity politics of social and cultural issues and instead focused
laser-like on the economic issues most important to the now-famous, non-urban,
blue-collar white voter.

Wait, isn't that what Russ Feingold tried?

In a visit with the Cap Times editorial board five weeks before the election,
Feingold described in detail many meaningful interactions on main streets and
coffee shops about pocketbook issues with Wisconsin residents of varied
political stripes.

Feingold visited every Wisconsin county in 2015 and again in 2016. He focused on
economic issues such as paid family leave, raising the minimum wage, making
college more affordable. He was also an outspoken foe of the Trans-Pacific
Partnership trade agreement, which became a de facto bogeyman for those who
think American workers have been sold out by international trade deals.

And if Clinton was stiff and lacked charisma, Feingold was a comfortable
campaigner, personable and quick-witted, a Rhodes Scholar and Harvard Law grad
in a flannel shirt, yet someone who never condescended.

And, here's the thing: He still lost, and by a greater margin than Clinton did
in Wisconsin.

No, much criticism of Clinton since the election seems to me to fall under the
heading of "mansplaining," which for those unfamiliar describes a man telling a
woman the way things really are in a way that is really patronizing. Some of
that has even appeared in the Cap Times.

I suspect many women believe sexism had much to do with Clinton's demise ? that
her gender helps explain why she was seen as "unlikable" and "untrustworthy."
Those same women have likely noticed a barrage of friendly fire directed at
Clinton by second-guessing progressive males since Election Day.

These voices bring to mind the old saying about editorial writers ? they come
down out of the hills after the battle to shoot the wounded.

No, something much bigger than Clinton's flaws, whatever they were, faces
Democrats, and it was partly explained in a thought-provoking essay after the
election in the Harvard Business Review: "What So Many People Don't Get About
the U.S. Working Class."

In it, Joan Williams, a legal scholar at the University of California's Hastings
College of the Law, contended that the so-called "class culture gap" hurt
Clinton for a reason I had not understood.

Her thesis also helps explain why Scott Walker has been able to win elections by
demonizing Wisconsin's educated elite even though he is financed and manipulated
by the state's truly wealthy, the kind of people who have come to dominate
Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce and other right-wing organizations in order
to ensure average workers are deprived of the benefits of collective bargaining.

Williams explains that the white working class generally resents highly educated
professionals, often liberal-leaning, because they resemble managers who hassle
them at work every day.

She quotes Alfred Lubrano from his 2004 book titled "Limbo: Blue-Collar Roots,
White-Collar Dreams," where he writes that workers often perceive such managers
as college kids "who don't know shit about how to do anything but are full of
ideas about how I have to do my job."

Williams cites multiple sources in asserting how blue-collar folks do not
similarly resent the truly wealthy. The truly rich have achieved financial
independence because they earned it, this reasoning goes. You know, people like
Donald Trump.

In this framing, Democrats, including Clinton, resemble their entitled managers:
"Hillary Clinton ? epitomizes the dorky arrogance and smugness of the
professional elite."

"Worse," Williams writes, "her mere presence rubs it in that even women from her
class can treat working-class men with disrespect."

"Manly dignity is a big deal to working class men," Williams writes. Trump
promises a return to an era "when men were men and women knew their place."

Still, no one is attributing all of this to sexism. It would be a mistake to
haughtily condemn these attitudes without seeking a path to help such men ? and
women ? navigate the fast-evolving and, for them, unfriendly global economic
terrain.

I suspect many Democrats recognize they need to be less defined by identity
politics even as they continue to fight racism, sexism, homophobia and
xenophobia. But they need to do so with the economic well-being and security of
all Americans at the forefront of their plans and in their messaging.

A big obstacle to getting there is that making the case for better schools and
roads and clean air and water requires a foundation of trust. Voters would need
to embrace the common good, to approach public affairs with open-mindedness, a
sort of altruism.

But Republicans have cleverly ? brilliantly even ? managed over many years to
smear anyone who enters politics other than those who vow to tear it down.
(Think about the laughably named "Freedom Caucus," a hateful collection of tea
partiers in the U.S. House.) No, the path is fraught.

It will take time for Trump's backers to realize that his tax plans are designed
to benefit the wealthy, not them, that his promise to resuscitate U.S.
manufacturing is a ridiculous hoax, and that, instead of making us safer, his
belligerent anti-Islam rhetoric is in fact a potent recruitment tool for
terrorists.

Yet, progressives must recognize that in turbulent times, Trump and his backers
have a big edge in the visceral, no-nonsense product they're selling ? fear and
short-term self-interest.

That's an easier message to sell than earnest plans to invest in education and
infrastructure, to equip young people and displaced adults for the global,
technical economy, and for a widespread spirit of unity and shared sacrifice.

Those real solutions will be difficult and take time.

For now, it's easier just to mansplain about Hillary.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO BY MATT ROURKE/ ASSOCIATED PRESS The real reason Hillary Clinton
lost ? and the challenge progressives still face ? isn't about her.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             593 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

JILL STEIN CAMPAIGN TO SEEK COURT-ORDERED HAND RECOUNT IN WISCONSIN;
POLITICS

BYLINE:  by JESSIE OPOIEN

SECTION: THE CAP TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 392 words


Green Party candidate Jill Stein said Monday her campaign will seek a court
order to require a presidential recount in Wisconsin be conducted by hand.

Stein's campaign said it will file a petition in Dane County asking a judge to
rule that the state's recount may only be conducted by hand. The state Elections
Commission voted Monday morning to let each of the state's 72 counties decide
whether to count ballots by hand or by machine, as state statutes allow.

Stein and Reform Party candidate Roque "Rocky" De La Fuente filed separate
petitions late Friday afternoon for a recount in Wisconsin, which would be the
state's first in a presidential election.

State elections officials met Monday morning to approve a timeline for the
recount, which will proceed only if one or both of the campaigns submit payment
by 4:30 p.m. Tuesday.

Stein received about 31,000 votes in Wisconsin, where president-elect Donald
Trump defeated Democratic former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton by about
22,000 votes. De La Fuente received about 1,500 votes in Wisconsin.

In her recount petition, Stein alleged some electronic voting machines in
Wisconsin are "susceptible to compromise." She suggested there were
"irregularities" in the state's vote totals that "indicate potential tampering
with electronic voting systems."

"Without utilizing these (hand count) methods, a recount would not exclude the
possibility of a breach that resulted in a miscounting of votes," Stein wrote in
her petition.

Stein cites an affidavit from J. Alex Halderman, a professor of computer science
and engineering at the University of Michigan, who argued "vote-stealing
malware" could have been installed on machines in battleground states like
Wisconsin.

Wisconsin elections administrator Michael Haas said Monday that elections
officials are "skeptical" of those claims. The state's machines are not
connected to the internet, a point Halderman said is irrelevant.

A person would have to physically access each individual voting machine to
tamper with the state's election results, elections supervisor Ross Hein said.

Elections Commission chairman Mark Thomsen said he expects the recount will not
change the results, even if the margins are adjusted. He lauded the state's
"very decentralized" elections process, conducted by county and municipal clerks
and volunteers throughout the state.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             594 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

SAGA IS GRIPPING! Don, Mitt shake off insults Meet may lead to Rommey joining
team

BYLINE: BY ALYN ACKERMAN and LARRY McSHANE NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 568 words


POLITICS MAKES estranged bedfellows.

GOP frenemies Mitt Romney and President-elect Donald Trump were all smiles
Saturday after a private 80-minute meeting at the businessman's private New
Jersey golf club.

"Went great!" Trump shouted through cupped hands to the assembled media after
the former combatants shook hands and went their separate ways around 2:20 p.m.

Trump then flashed a thumbs-up before heading inside for more meetings.

The former Massachusetts governor was mentioned this week as a possible
candidate for Trump's secretary of state. But Romney departed without a
definitive word on a role in the administration.

"We had a far-reaching conversation with regards to the various theaters of the
world which involve the United States," Romney said before leaving without
answering questions.

"It was a very good and interesting and thorough conversation. I appreciate the
chance to meet with the President-elect."

Romney was met at the Trump International Golf Club in Bedminster Township,
N.J., by the incoming commander-in-chief and Vice President-elect Mike Pence.

"How are you, sir?" inquired Romney before shaking hands with both men.

The civility stood in stark contrast to the war of words between the Republican
Party's presidential nominees of 2012 and 2016.

Romney unleashed a blistering call for the Republican Party to reject Trump,
describing him as a "con man, a phony and a fraud." Romney also mentioned
Trump's "bullying . . . greed . . . misogyny (and) absurd third-grade
theatrics."

Trump, repeatedly noting Romney's 2012 defeat to incumbent President Obama,
derided the onetime White House hopeful as a "loser" and a "failed candidate."

He added that Romney "choked like a dog."

But Romney started the fence-mending after the Nov. 8 election, tweeting
congratulations to Trump. The newly elected President noted that Romney called
to offer the same thoughts.

"Very nice!" Trump tweeted after their chat.

Trump has already named three top appointees: Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions for
attorney general, Kansas Rep. Mike Pompeo to head the CIA, and retired Lt. Gen.
Michael Flynn as his national security adviser.

Trump arrived around noon for a series of sitdowns as he goes about the business
of filling an assortment of White House positions.

"Will be working all weekend in choosing the great men and women who will be
helping to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!" Trump tweeted before going to the golf
course.

Retired Marine Corps Gen. James Mattis, a contender for defense secretary, was
described by Trump as "a great man" after their meeting.

The future President also met with a pair of education activists - including one
who brought her ex-NBA star husband.

One-time Washington, D.C., school chancellor Michelle Ree - a charter school
advocate - arrived with spouse Kevin Johnson. He is the Democratic mayor of
Sacramento and a former Phoenix Suns star.

Trump also welcomed Betsy DeVos, a Michigan GOP fund-raiser and school vouchers
supporter.

One-time Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee - another Trump administration possibility
- ripped into Romney as unworthy of a job under the White House's soon-to-arrive
tenant.

"I don't see any way in the world that Mitt Romney would have a cabinet position
in the Donald Trump administration," Huckabee told Fox News.

"It would be an insult to the supporters of Donald Trump . . . to give a guy a
job who basically said all those supporters were following a con man."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President-elect Trump calls out to press (above) as Mitt Romney leaves
their Saturday meeting at Trump's golf club in Bedminster, N.J. Trump and Vice
President-elect Mike Pence also met with retired Gen. James Mattis (opposite
page, center) regarding cabinet posts. GETTY; REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             595 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 METRO EDITION

GIMME YOUR MITT Trump, Romney shake on it No word yet if ex-rival will play a
role

BYLINE: BY ALYN ACKERMAN and LARRY McSHANE NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 568 words


POLITICS MAKES estranged bedfellows.

GOP frenemies Mitt Romney and President-elect Donald Trump were all smiles
Saturday after a private 80-minute meeting at the businessman's private New
Jersey golf club.

"Went great!" Trump shouted through cupped hands to the assembled media after
the former combatants shook hands and went their separate ways around 2:20 p.m.

Trump then flashed a thumbs-up before heading inside for more meetings.

The former Massachusetts governor was mentioned this week as a possible
candidate for Trump's secretary of state. But Romney departed without a
definitive word on a role in the administration.

"We had a far-reaching conversation with regards to the various theaters of the
world which involve the United States," Romney said before leaving without
answering questions.

"It was a very good and interesting and thorough conversation. I appreciate the
chance to meet with the President-elect."

Romney was met at the Trump International Golf Club in Bedminster Township,
N.J., by the incoming commander-in-chief and Vice President-elect Mike Pence.

"How are you, sir?" inquired Romney before shaking hands with both men.

The civility stood in stark contrast to the war of words between the Republican
Party's presidential nominees of 2012 and 2016.

Romney unleashed a blistering call for the Republican Party to reject Trump,
describing him as a "con man, a phony and a fraud." Romney also mentioned
Trump's "bullying . . . greed . . . misogyny (and) absurd third-grade
theatrics."

Trump, repeatedly noting Romney's 2012 defeat to incumbent President Obama,
derided the onetime White House hopeful as a "loser" and a "failed candidate."

He added that Romney "choked like a dog."

But Romney started the fence-mending after the Nov. 8 election, tweeting
congratulations to Trump. The newly elected President noted that Romney called
to offer the same thoughts.

"Very nice!" Trump tweeted after their chat.

Trump has already named three top appointees: Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions for
attorney general, Kansas Rep. Mike Pompeo to head the CIA, and retired Lt. Gen.
Michael Flynn as his national security adviser.

Trump arrived around noon for a series of sitdowns as he goes about the business
of filling an assortment of White House positions.

"Will be working all weekend in choosing the great men and women who will be
helping to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!" Trump tweeted before going to the golf
course.

Retired Marine Corps Gen. James Mattis, a contender for defense secretary, was
described by Trump as "a great man" after their meeting.

The future President also met with a pair of education activists - including one
who brought her ex-NBA star husband.

One-time Washington, D.C., school chancellor Michelle Ree - a charter school
advocate - arrived with spouse Kevin Johnson. He is the Democratic mayor of
Sacramento and a former Phoenix Suns star.

Trump also welcomed Betsy DeVos, a Michigan GOP fund-raiser and school vouchers
supporter.

One-time Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee - another Trump administration possibility
- ripped into Romney as unworthy of a job under the White House's soon-to-arrive
tenant.

"I don't see any way in the world that Mitt Romney would have a cabinet position
in the Donald Trump administration," Huckabee told Fox News.

"It would be an insult to the supporters of Donald Trump . . . to give a guy a
job who basically said all those supporters were following a con man."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President-elect Trump calls out to press (above) as Mitt Romney leaves
their Saturday meeting at Trump's golf club in Bedminster, N.J. Trump and Vice
President-elect Mike Pence also met with retired Gen. James Mattis (opposite
page, center) regarding cabinet posts. GETTY; REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             596 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

SHOW WORLD YOUR PAPERS Anti-immig fanatic meets Trump with plan exposed
'Registration system' & Sharia quiz seen in photo

BYLINE: BY ADAM EDELMAN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 700 words


DONALD TRUMP'S prospective homeland security secretary, anti-immigrant activist
Kris Kobach, walked into his cabinet interview with the President-elect holding
a stack of exposed papers that showed in plain sight his plans for the
department.

Kobach, an early Trump supporter who helped draft Arizona's infamous
anti-illegal-immigration bill known as the "show me your papers law," was
photographed entering his meeting with a cover sheet in hand. The document about
the first 365 days of a Trump administration revealed proposals to track "all
aliens from high-risk areas" and "update and reintroduce" the National Security
Entry-Exit Registration System - a program created after 9/11 that acts as a
registry for certain immigrants.

The system, which Kobach helped build as a Justice Department staffer under
George W. Bush, required men 16 and older from particular countries to register
in person with the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the U.S. The
program was largely suspended in 2011.

Kobach's paper also revealed that he wants to add "extreme vetting" measures for
immigrants that Trump has proposed, including questions "regarding support for
Sharia Law, jihad, equality of men and women and the Constitution."

Kobach, according to his pitch to Trump, would also "reduce (the) intake of
Syrian refugees to zero, using authority under the 1980 Refugee Act."

Much of the paper is obscured by Kobach's sleeve and hand, but a portion at the
bottom makes it apparent that he would propose changes to "voter rolls."

News of the document's contents was first reported by the Topeka Capital-Journal
in Kansas, where Kobach is secretary of state. The newspaper zoomed in on an
image of Kobach entering his meeting with Trump in New Jersey on Sunday.

Kobach helped author Arizona's Senate Bill 1070, a law that lets police arrest,
without warrants, immigrants they suspected of being "removable."

The law's key provisions were struck down by the Supreme Court in 2012.

Trump, meanwhile, welcomed another slate of prospective hires to Trump Tower
Monday as he moved to fill out his cabinet.

The President-elect spent the morning at his Midtown abode with former Texas
Gov. Rick Perry, said to be a candidate for energy secretary or defense
secretary; Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin, under consideration to be interior
secretary; longtime adviser and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, and former
Sen. Scott Brown (R-Mass.), reportedly under consideration to be veterans
affairs secretary, the mogul's transition team said Monday.

Trump also sat down with Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii), the former vice
chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee who had been a fervent Bernie
Sanders supporter throughout her party's presidential primary.

Gabbard said she and Trump had a "frank and positive conversation" about foreign
policy, terrorism and the fight against ISIS, and urged Democrats and
Republicans to "come together."

Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who spent the weekend huddling with Trump
at his golf course in New Jersey, was not present Monday, but news emerged that
he was under consideration for the director of national intelligence post.
Previously, reports indicated he was in the running to be secretary of state.

Economist Jeff Eisenach and former Sprint Corp. lobbyist Mark Jamison will
oversee hiring and policy for the Federal Communications Commission, Trump said.
Both oppose recent telecom regulations and support mega-mergers - suggesting a
looser approach to FCC deals. Trump also released a short video praising his
talented transition team and detailing the first things he'll do in office.

He said he'll kill the Trans-Pacific Partnership deal set up by Obama, remove
restrictions on U.S. energy production, opening up shale and a clean coal
industries, probe all abuses of U.S. visa programs and set up a rule that any
time a new regulation of any type is imposed, two old regulations must be
removed.

What's on his list?

Track all immigrants from high-risk countries.

Update and reintroduce National Security Entry-Exit Registration System.

Reduce intake of Syrian refugees to zero, using authority under the 1980 Refugee
Act.

Unclear proposition about changes to voter rolls.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President-elect Donald Trump greets Kris Kobach at mogul's golf club in
New Jersey. Kobach, a candidate for homeland security secretary, was
photographed holding his proposals for the department - many of which can be
seen. Far right, CNN's Wolf Blitzer was among TV big shots who met a whiny
Trump.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             597 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Carson is my HUD bud: Don

BYLINE: Leonard Greene

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 170 words


FORMER White House hopeful Ben Carson is considering an offer from
President-elect Donald Trump to be secretary of housing and urban development,
according to reports.

Carson - who last week, despite having run for President, said he was not
qualified for a cabinet post - will consider the offer over Thanksgiving, a
spokesman, Armstrong Williams, said Tuesday.

Carson, a retired surgeon, dropped out of the presidential race in March and
backed Trump.

Trump praised his former rival, whom he last year likened to a child molester.

"I am seriously considering Dr. Ben Carson as the head of HUD," Trump tweeted.
"I've gotten to know him well - he's a greatly talented person who loves
people!"

Carson's name had been floated for several posts.

"I've said my preference is to be outside and to act as an adviser," Carson told
Fox News before his staff confirmed the offer.

"But if after going through the process, they all conclude it would be better to
have me in the cabinet, I would have to give that very serious consideration."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             598 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Yep, my charity's corrupt Trump admits illegal use of cash for gain

BYLINE: BY LARRY McSHANE NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 500 words


DONALD TRUMP, after relentlessly bashing the Clinton Foundation during the
presidential campaign, now admits his own namesake charity violated federal tax
regulations.

The Donald J. Trump Foundation's 2015 tax filings, as reported by the
nonprofit-tracking website GuideStar, included an acknowledgment that money from
the charity was used "for the benefit or use of a disqualified person."

Translation: Trump, his relatives or one of his businesses could have improperly
received money from the foundation last year.

The foundation's 13-page filing, without providing any additional detail,
further admitted the same violation had occurred previously.

The Trump transition team did not immediately respond to the postings of the
Internal Revenue Service documents.

The IRS defines a disqualified person as anyone in a position to hold
"substantial influence" over a charity - as well as their relatives and their
businesses.

The fifth page of the paperwork contained the not-so-surprising news, with the
foundation answering yes to the question of whether any income or assets were
transferred to a "disqualified person."

On the same page, the foundation acknowledged this was not the first time around
for the mishandling of funds. If any wrongdoing is found, the recipient of the
foundation money could be required to reimburse the cash.

The Washington Post reported during the presidential campaign that Trump had
taken some $300,000 in foundation money for his own benefit.

In two of those cases, the funds were used to buy portraits of Trump at charity
auctions.

The IRS forms provided no details on where the money went, how much money was
involved and what years other than 2015 were affected.

New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is already investigating the
Trump foundation, and has stopped the organization from fund-raising in the
state.

The foundation paid the IRS a $2,500 fine earlier this year after cutting a
$25,000 check three years ago to a political committee backing Florida Attorney
General Pam Bondi. Foundations aren't allowed to make political donations.

Trump later explained that he intended to make the donation from his personal
funds. The donation came while Bondi was considering whether to file a lawsuit
against the billionaire over his Trump University.

Bondi took the money and opted not to pursue Trump - who settled three lawsuits
against his controversial "university" last week for $25 million.

Fox News legal analyst Bondi, who remains Florida's top prosecutor, met with
Trump last week about a possible position in his administration. She's denied
any link between the donation and her decision not to pursue the case.

The new documents also showed the foundation's donors included a Ukrainian
industrialist's foundation. The Victor Pinchuk Foundation gave $150,000 to the
Trump Foundation in 2015, while Trump was running for President.

Similar donations to the Hillary Clinton campaign by Pinchuk raised conflict of
interest questions for the Democratic hopeful.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charity run by Donald Trump, seen yesterday at New York Times building,
is being probed by state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman (below r.) for
payments aiding Florida AG Pam Bondi (below left) and other odd transactions.
AP; GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             599 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Push for feds to 'audit the vote'

BYLINE: Adam Edelman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 134 words


AS HILLARY Clinton's lead in the popular vote over Donald Trump surpassed 2
million Wednesday, calls from Democrats grew to put election results under a
magnifying glass in states the President-elect narrowly won.

A movement called "audit the vote" - with the help of a handful of celebrities -
is asking the feds to check vote totals in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania
and to make sure the voting machines used in those states Nov. 8 were
functioning properly. A petition posted to Change.org had received 166,000
signatures. The petition, launched by a nonprofit group called Verified Voting
Foundation, raises questions over whether Russian hackers "interfered" with the
election.

Jill Stein, the Green Party's presidential candidate, plans to file for recounts
in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             600 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

Push for feds to 'audit the vote'

BYLINE: Adam Edelman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 150 words


AS HILLARY Clinton's lead in the popular vote over Donald Trump surpassed 2
million Wednesday, calls from Democrats grew to put election results under a
magnifying glass in states the President-elect narrowly won.

A movement called "audit the vote" - with the help of a handful of celebrities -
is asking the feds to check vote totals in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania
and to make sure the voting machines used in those states Nov. 8 were
functioning properly. A petition posted to Change.org had received 166,000
signatures. The petition, launched by a nonprofit group called Verified Voting
Foundation, raises questions over whether Russian hackers "interfered" with the
election.

Jill Stein, the Green Party's presidential candidate, plans to file for recounts
in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin. By early Thursday, she was about
$250,000 short of her $2.5 million goal to fund the effort.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             601 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Green Party's Stein nets $4M for recount efforts in Mich., Wis. and Pa.

BYLINE: BY Erin Durkin and Chris Sommerfeldt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 132 words


GREEN PARTY presidential candidate Jill Stein had no problem raising the $2.5
million she wanted to file for ballot recounts in Michigan, Pennsylvania and
Wisconsin - and now she's looking for more.

Stein, who launched the fund-raising effort Wednesday, hit her initial goal and
then upped it a day later to $4.5 million. As of mid-afternoon Thursday, she had
$3.94 million.

The third party candidate decided to go for a recount after a group of election
lawyers and data experts asked Hillary Clinton's campaign to make sure a hack or
cyber attack had not skewed results in the three states, which Clinton lost by
small margins to Donald Trump. No evidence has emerged that any such attack
occurred. Clinton lost the Electoral College vote to Trump but won the popular
vote by more than 2 million.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             602 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

COUNT HIL IN Clinton 'Green' lights Wis. vote tally

BYLINE: BY MEG WAGNER NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 513 words


HILLARY CLINTON is with Jill Stein in the recount effort.

A lawyer for the Clinton campaign said the team will participate in any recount
request the Green Party presidential nominee files - but it won't spearhead any
of its own.

"Now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to participate in
order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides,"
Marc Elias, general counsel to the Clinton campaign, said in a statement
Saturday.

Stein, the Green Party presidential nominee, filed for a recount in Wisconsin
Friday. She has vowed to do the same in Pennsylvania and Michigan, raising more
than $4 million to fund the trio of do-overs.

President-elect Donald Trump won all three of those states with narrow margins.
However, Clinton won the popular vote by a margin of more than 2 million.

The Clinton campaign will go along with Stein's other two recounts, too, if she
files for them. The deadline to petition Pennsylvania for a recount is Monday,
while Michigan's is Wednesday.

Elias said the Clinton campaign did not initiate the costly recount process
because it found no evidence that the results had been altered.

In the two weeks since the election, multiple theories have suggested hackers
twisted the results to disadvantage Clinton - but the campaign's own
investigations couldn't find any signs of interference.

Elias admitted that the odds of a recount overturning any of those state's votes
are slim. "But regardless of the potential to change the outcome in any of the
states, we feel it is important, on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally
represented in any court proceedings and represented on the ground in order to
monitor the recount process itself," Elias said.

Meanwhile, Trump slammed Stein, dismissing her fund-raising for the recount as a
way to "fill her coffers with money."

"The people have spoken and the election is over," Trump said in a statement.
"This is a scam by the Green Party for an election that has already been
conceded, and the results of this election should be respected instead of being
challenged and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is doing."

Trump's campaign manager dismissed the recount effort with even stronger
language.

"What a pack of sore losers," Kellyanne Conway said. "After asking Mr. Trump and
his team a million times on the trail, 'Will HE accept the election results?' it
turns out Team Hillary and their new BFF Jill Stein can't accept reality."

The Clinton campaign's pledge to support the recount comes more than two weeks
after the former secretary of state conceded the Nov. 8 election.

Clinton reportedly called Trump (inset) to congratulate him only after President
Obama urged her to accept the results.

When the Republican took Pennsylvania, ensuring that he'd get the needed 270
Electoral College votes to win the White House, Clinton took the President's
advice.

"Just give me the phone," a frustrated Clinton reportedly told her staffers.
"I'm calling him."

Graphic:

Battle for the Badger State

Trump 47.9% 1,409,467

Clinton 46.9% 1,382,210

Stein 1.1% 30,980

Source: CNN

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC;MAP;STATISTIC, Hillary Clinton's camp says she is on board with
the recount called for by Jill Stein (below). PHOTOS BY GETTY, AP [Donald Trump]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             603 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

'COUNT' CRAPULA Sore winner Trump's wild claim 'Millions' of cheaters cost me
popular vote

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA BEKIEMPIS and ADAM EDELMAN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 577 words


DONALD TRUMP spent his Sunday slamming Hillary Clinton over her campaign's
decision to assist with a recount request in three swing states and insisting
without evidence that if it weren't for "millions of people who voted
illegally," he would have won the popular vote.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," Trump posted to
his Twitter account toward the end of an hourslong tirade.

"It would have been much easier for me to win the so-called popular vote than
the Electoral College in that I would only campaign in 3 or 4 ... states instead
of the 15 states that I visited. I would have won even more easily and
convincingly (but smaller states are forgotten)!" he added.

Trump won the election by beating Clinton in the Electoral College 290 to 232.
He lost the popular vote, however, by more than 2 million votes.

There is no evidence any widespread voter fraud occurred during the 2016
election, although Green Party nominee Jill Stein has launched a recount effort
in Wisconsin amid questions over Russian interference in tallying the results -
an effort that Trump tweeted was "sad."

"Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the
victory speech and after the results were in. Nothing will change," Trump
tweeted earlier Sunday.

"I, for one, am appalled," Trump added, after tweeting parts of Clinton's
concession speech, in which she told supporters they must accept that "Donald
Trump is going to be our President."

His criticisms came a day after a lawyer for the Clinton campaign said the
Democratic nominee's remaining team would participate in any recount request
Stein files, but would not spearhead any of its own.

"Now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to participate in
order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides,"
Marc Elias, general counsel to the Clinton campaign, wrote in a statement
Saturday.

Elias stressed, however, that the campaign's own analysts hadn't come across
evidence of irregularities.

Stein filed for a recount in Wisconsin Friday afternoon. She has vowed to do the
same in Pennsylvania and Michigan, raising more than $4 million to fund the trio
of do-overs.

Trump won all three of those states by narrow margins. Michigan's results, which
show Trump leading by just over 11,000 votes, have not yet been certified.

The three states in question could tip the electoral balance to Clinton in the
remote event they all flip after recounts.

The Clinton campaign has said it would go along with Stein's other recounts,
too, if she files for them. The deadline to petition Pennsylvania for a recount
is Monday, while Michigan's is Wednesday.

On Saturday, Stein announced that she'd file for a recount in any state where
the deadline has not yet passed.

But fellow Democrats suggested that a recount was either a bad idea, or an
ineffectual one.

"It's their decision. They ran a tough race," Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), who is
running for his party's leadership position in the House, said on NBC's "Meet
the Press."

"I would counsel against it, but I'm moving on," Ryan said.

Bernie Sanders, who said he didn't oppose the recount, predicted its outcome
would have no effect.

"It's not a big deal. I don't think anybody, Secretary Clinton or anybody else,
thinks that there's going to be profound changes. And we will see what happens,"
he said on ABC's "This Week."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A counsel for campaign of Hillary Clinton (left) said "we intend to
participate" now that Green Party candidate Jill Stein (below left) has called
for a recount in Wisconsin, with Pennsylvania and Michigan possibly to follow.
President-elect Donald Trump ripped recount movement and alleged ? with no
factual basis ? in a series of tweets (opposite page) Sunday that millions of
people voted illegally.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             604 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Lock him up in the cabinet! Petraeus eyes State Spiller of top sexxx-rets latest
show finalist

BYLINE: BY CAMERON JOSEPH and STEPHEN REX BROWN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 384 words


THE LATEST episode of Donald Trump's "The Apprentice: White House Edition"
featured a special appearance by secret-spilling retired four-star general David
Petraeus, a surprise contestant for the position of secretary of state.

Petraeus - who resigned from the top job at the CIA in 2012 after sharing
confidential information with his mistress - was paraded in front of the cameras
at Trump Tower before meeting with the President-elect for about an hour.

"He basically walked us around the world. Showed a great grasp of a variety of
the challenges that are out there and some of the opportunities as well,"
Petraeus said afterward. "Very good conversation, and we'll see where it goes
from here."

Trump tweeted following the meeting, reinforcing the aura of a
reality-show-style audition. "Just met with General Petraeus - was very
impressed!" Trump wrote.

The interest in Petraeus is surprising, since he pleaded guilty in 2015 to
misdemeanor mishandling of classified information for leaking info to his
mistress, who was also his biographer.

During the campaign, Trump maintained the general's government career was ended
for "far less" than the wrongdoing he alleged by Hillary Clinton, who used a
private email server during her time as secretary of state. Trump said she
should be "jailed" and egged on crowds to chant "Lock her up!"

Petraeus is one of several contestants vying for the job.

Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani was an early favorite, but some in Trump's
team have been pushing Trump critic and former presidential nominee Mitt Romney
for the role.

Romney met with Trump in New Jersey last week, and he's slated to audition again
Tuesday, as is Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), who's the chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee.

Opposition to Romney has been fierce and public by some on the Trump team -
which led to more drama Monday.

Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway tweeted Sunday that Trump supporters "feel
betrayed" by the possibility Romney might get the job. That claim made Trump
"furious" at Conway, MSNBC's "Morning Joe" reported.

A source said Trump felt Conway "went rogue at Donald Trump's expense at the
worst possible time," according to host Mika Brzezinski.

It's unclear when Trump will make his decision. He tweeted earlier this month,
"Only I know who the finalists are!"

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Retired Gen. David Petraeus arrives at Trump Tower, where he had
hourlong sitdown with President-elect Donald Trump on Monday. GETTY

DOCUMENT-TYPE: FRONT PAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             605 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 METRO EDITION

Lock him up in the cabinet! Petraeus eyes State Spiller of top sexxx-rets latest
show finalist

BYLINE: BY CAMERON JOSEPH NEWS WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 303 words


EVEN TEAM Trump can't explain his comment that there were millions of fraudulent
votes in the presidential election.

Asked for proof of the President-elect's claim, Trump spokesman Jason Miller
cited a widely debunked Washington Post blog post and a Pew Charitable Trusts
report from 2012 - and that report's author said Trump's camp has its facts
wrong.

Responding to Green Party leader Jill Stein's push for election recounts in
three states, Trump tweeted over the weekend that he "won the popular vote if
you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."

He also claimed there was "serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and
California," although officials in all three states say there wasn't.

In a conference call with reporters Monday morning, Miller blasted Stein's
efforts as a "frivolous fund-raising scheme" before singling out the 2014 blog
post and the Pew report, which found "that approximately 1 in 8 voter
registrations are no longer valid."

But that report's author said they found no evidence of voter fraud.

"As primary author of the report the Trump camp cited today, I can confirm that
report made no findings re: voter fraud," David Becker, Pew's former director of
election initiatives, tweeted Monday. "We found millions of out-of-date
registration records due to people moving or dying, but found no evidence that
voter fraud resulted."

Trump's claims that millions of people had voted illegally seemed to stem not
from the reports Miller cited Monday, but from a Nov. 13 tweet from Gregg
Phillips, a board member of the conservative anti-voter-fraud group True the
Vote, that claimed without evidence that it "verified more than 3 million votes
cast by noncitizens."

White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Monday, "There has been no evidence
produced to substantiate a claim like that."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Retired Gen. David Petraeus arrives at Trump Tower, where he had
hourlong sitdown with President-elect Donald Trump on Monday. GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             606 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

You betcha, she might join team

BYLINE: BY ADAM EDELMAN NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 306 words


PRESIDENT-ELECT Donald Trump is reportedly considering naming Sarah Palin his
secretary of veterans affairs.

"My God," tweeted Brandon Friedman, who served as an Army infantry officer in
Afghanistan and Iraq, with a link to the ABC News report Wednesday.

A spokeswoman for Trump's transition team did not respond to questions about
Palin, but the former Alaska governor posted a cryptic message about veterans to
her Facebook page shortly after the ABC report was published.

"We should be grateful we'll soon have a commander-in-chief who will champion
our vets and honor the promises our nation made; a pro-private sector individual
who surely understands bigger government is NOT the answer; a President who
promised to drain the swamp and clean up all government corruption . . . all
things our vets and active duty troops deserve," Palin wrote.

Palin endorsed Trump early in the presidential race and campaigned for the mogul
- an effort Trump has said he would like to reward.

The former GOP Vice-Presidential nominee does have ties to the military.

Her son Track spent a year deployed in Iraq with the U.S. Army, and Palin
infamously blamed his PTSD on President Obama, saying the commander-in-chief
doesn't do enough to support struggling veterans. Track Palin was busted for
drunken domestic abuse the same day his mom endorsed Trump in January.

News of her prospective appointment didn't go over well with several veterans.

Peter Kauffmann, who served as an intelligence officer in the Navy from 2002 to
2007, called the floating of her name "the ultimate confirmation that the only
thing Trump cares about veterans is using them as props."

Friedman, who is now the CEO of public relations firm McPherson Square Group,
tweeted "One would be hard-pressed to come up with a better way to show
disrespect of veterans than with this choice."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: [Sarah Palin]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             607 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

It's all over but the shouting

BYLINE: BY Christopher Brennan With News Wire Services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 212 words


A POST MORTEM on the election turned into a shouting match amid the dignified
setting of Harvard University on Thursday as top Democrats and Republicans
lobbed accusations of racism and being sore losers.

"If providing a platform for white supremacists makes me a brilliant tactician,
I am proud to have lost," Hillary Clinton's communications director Jennifer
Palmieri said, referring to Donald Trump's chief strategist Stephen Bannon. "I
would rather lose than win the way you guys did."

"Do you think I ran a campaign where white supremacists had a platform?" Trump
campaign manager Kellyanne Conway shot back, according to The Washington Post.

Affirmative, Palmieri responded.

"Hashtag he's your President. How's that? Will you ever accept the election
results? Will you tell your protesters that he's their President, too?" Conway
said.

Harvard's Institute of Politics sponsored the forum. The opposing sides in
presidential elections have met every four years since 1972 to discuss the
campaign.

Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook said his candidate was penalized for trying
to tell the truth in a "postfactual campaign." Former Trump campaign manager
Corey Lewandowski blamed media outlets, saying, "You guys took Donald Trump so
literally, and the American public didn't."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.


                             608 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Blasio's 'stand up' act vs. the donald Nat'l ambition on city stage

BYLINE: Aaron Short

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 435 words


Mayor de Blasio wants to become America's leading leftist voice by using the
Trump administration as a foil, but the effort could hurt his bid to return to
City Hall next year.

Hizzoner sent a fund-raising e-mail to supporters Sunday promising to "stand up"
to attempts to deport people or take away their health insurance and wrote in a
defiant Facebook post Wednesday that "the federal government can't tell us how
to police our streets."

Hours later he met with President-elect Trump and afterward held a press
conference in which he said New Yorkers are "fearful" of a Trump presidency.

"He got an hour with Trump and told him, 'Don't do this,' and I think all this
helps his re-election and takes the thunder out of opponents," one consultant
close to the mayor said. "He's smart about looking like he's going to seize
anti-Trump sentiment."

On Friday, de Blasio compared himself to Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and vowed
to "draw a line in the sand" whenever he disagreed with Trump's policies.

"Anything we see as divisive, anything we see as bigotry, undermining core,
American, constitutional values, we have to fight intensely," de Blasio told
WNYC's Brian Lehrer.

Some think de Blasio may lose local voters as he tries to ascend a national
stage.

"He may have these aspirations, but there's not much record to suggest he will
be successful in becoming a darling of the progressive movement on par with
Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren," said Democratic consultant Dan Gerstein.

His brushes with national politics didn't go smoothly during the presidential
campaign, when the mayor refused to endorse Hillary Clinton for months even
though he worked on her 2000 Senate campaign. He was ridiculed by the Clinton
camp in leaked e-mails, and relegated to a minor role in the presidential
campaign.

Some confidants say the mayor should focus on making the city great again and
leave national politicking to others.

"He's best served showing what he has done and can continue to do going
forward," said ally Sid Davidoff. "I don't necessarily think being a national
figure is what helps in terms of a mayoral campaign."

Yet some campaign gurus believe Trump's surprise win gives de Blasio a platform
to reach a broader audience of New Yorkers while scaring off challengers.

"The mayor has an enormous opportunity to stand up on behalf of New Yorkers and
our values. Lots of New Yorkers are afraid of Trump and the mayor can be their
voice," said political consultant Howard Wolfson, who advised Mayor Bloomberg
and served on Hillary Clinton's 2008 campaign team.  Aaron Short

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mayor de Blasio. (ZUMAPRESS.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             609 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Romney wants into the secretary pool

BYLINE: Aaron Short and Mary Kay Linge

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 437 words


Former presidential candidate Mitt Romney joined a parade of conservatives eager
to fill the ranks of the incoming White House administration for a series of
interviews with President-elect Trump at his golf club in Bedminster, NJ, on
Saturday.

Romney, who once called Trump a "phony" and a "fraud," told reporters he had a
"very thorough and in-depth discussion" on foreign relations.

"We had a far-reaching conversation with regards to the various theaters in the
world where there are interests of the United States of real significance," said
Romney, who has been floated as a secretary of state candidate.

After the 80-minute meeting, Trump cupped his hands around his mouth and
shouted, "It went great," and flashed a thumbs-up as Romney walked to a waiting
SUV.

Also scheduled for Saturday sit-downs with Trump and Vice President-elect Mike
Pence were two secretary of education hopefuls, StudentsFirst founder Michelle
Rhee and philanthropist Betsy Duvos; retired Marine Corps Gen. James Mattis, a
leading contender for secretary of defense; fast-food CEO Andy Puzder, a
candidate for labor secretary; and New Jersey financier Lew Eisenberg, a
possible commerce secretary.

"We're seeing tremendous talent," he told reporters at day's end. "People that,
like I say, we will 'Make America Great Again."

On Sunday, Trump and Pence will meet with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie; former
New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani; billionaire investor Wilbur Ross, a candidate for
both treasury secretary and secretary of commerce; Kansas Secretary of State
Kris Kobach; and former Treasury Undersecretary David McCormick.

A number of candidates whom Trump will not be meeting in-person this weekend are
still in the mix for high-level posts.

Former Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown is a top contender to run the Department
of Veterans Affairs; Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton is being considered for defense
secretary; and New Jersey developer Giuseppe Forgione has edged ahead of
Westchester County Executive Rob Astorino for housing and urban development
secretary, sources said.

Secretary of state has become the most competitive seat in Trump's Cabinet, with
Romney, South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, Giuliani, Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker,
former UN ambassador John Bolton and former CIA Director David Petraeus in the
mix.

Team Trump is also sorting résumés for ambassador, judge and federal prosecutor
posts.

For United Nations ambassador, former US spokesman at the UN Richard Grenell has
moved ahead of former New Hampshire Sen. Kelly Ayotte, who is also an outside
candidate for defense secretary, a source said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: nice to mitt ya: Donald Trump and Mitt Romney bid farewell after
convening in New Jersey on Saturday. (Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             610 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Blasio's 'stand up' act vs. The Donald Nat'l ambition on city stage

BYLINE: Aaron Short

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 431 words


Mayor de Blasio wants to become America's leading leftist voice by using the
Trump administration as a foil, but the effort could hurt his bid to return to
City Hall next year.

Hizzoner sent a fund-raising e-mail to supporters Sunday promising to "stand up"
to attempts to deport people or take away their health insurance and wrote in a
defiant Facebook post Wednesday that "the federal government can't tell us how
to police our streets."

Hours later he met with President-elect Trump and afterward held a press
conference in which he said New Yorkers are "fearful" of a Trump presidency.

"He got an hour with Trump and told him, 'Don't do this,' and I think all this
helps his re-election and takes the thunder out of opponents," one consultant
close to the mayor said. "He's smart about looking like he's going to seize
anti-Trump sentiment."

On Friday, de Blasio compared himself to Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and vowed
to "draw a line in the sand" whenever he disagreed with Trump's policies.

"Anything we see as divisive, anything we see as bigotry, undermining core,
American, constitutional values, we have to fight intensely," de Blasio told
WNYC's Brian Lehrer.

Some think de Blasio may lose local voters as he tries to ascend a national
stage.

"He may have these aspirations, but there's not much record to suggest he will
be successful in becoming a darling of the progressive movement on par with
Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren," said Democratic consultant Dan Gerstein.

His forays into national politics didn't go smoothly during the presidential
campaign, when the mayor refused to endorse Hillary Clinton for months even
though he worked on her 2000 Senate campaign. He was ridiculed by the Clinton
camp in leaked e-mails, and relegated to a minor role in the presidential
campaign.

Some confidants say the mayor should focus on making the city great again over
the next nine months and leave national politicking to others.

"He's best served showing what he has done and can continue to do going
forward," said de Blasio ally Sid Davidoff. "I don't necessarily think being a
national figure is what helps in terms of a mayoral campaign."

Yet some campaign gurus believe Trump's surprise win gives de Blasio a platform
to reach a broader audience of New Yorkers while scaring off rivals who want to
challenge him.

"The mayor has an enormous opportunity to stand up on behalf of New Yorkers and
our values. Lots of New Yorkers are afraid of Trump and the mayor can be their
voice," said political consultant Howard Wolfson. Aaron Short

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mayor de Blasio. (ZUMAPRESS.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             611 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

EXCLUSIVE Dc-ya later: Mel First lady & son to stay in Midtown

BYLINE: ISABEL VINCENT

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 456 words


Future First Lady Melania Trump and son Barron will not be moving to the White
House after Donald Trump's inauguration in January, The Post has learned.

The president-elect's 46-year-old wife and their 10-year-old son are staying put
at the family's glitzy Trump Tower penthouse so that Barron can continue
attending his Upper West Side private school, sources told The Post.

"Melania is extremely close to Barron, and they have become closer during the
campaign," said a source close to Trump's transition team. "The campaign has
been difficult for Barron, and she is really hoping to keep disruption to a
minimum."

Another source said Melania Trump will travel to the White House as needed, but
that her primary focus is on Barron.

"Melania is very supportive of her husband and is fully on board of doing
everything that's needed as first lady," said the second source familiar with
the Trump transition.

That source said also that there is a possibility that Melania and Barron may
move to the White House at the end of the school year, but no plans are in
place.

"She is really devoted to Barron," said a source close to the family, adding
that Melania has not relied on nannies to raise the child and is frequently seen
picking the fourth-grader up from his prep school, where tuition is north of
$40,000.

The decision to remain in their Midtown home will increase the security presence
around Trump Tower - an effort that will involve both Secret Service and the
NYPD, an expert familiar with high-level security told The Post.

"That building is going to become the White House of New York," said Jim Reese,
a former Delta Force commander and president of TigerSwan, a global security
company based in North Carolina.

"The Secret Service is going to have to keep that whole area cordoned off so
that some wacko can't get close and detonate a car bomb."

Strict security measures around Trump Tower will remain in place, with two of
the five lanes on Fifth Avenue between West 56th and 57th streets closed because
of barriers, said officials at a joint NYPD, Secret Service and City Hall news
conference Friday.

Following the presidential election, the area around Trump Tower has turned into
a traffic nightmare, with West 56th Street closed to traffic between Fifth and
Madison avenues, and shoppers having to go through a security cordon and subject
to bag checks.

Barron and Melania will each have an unknown number of Secret Service agents
assigned to them in addition to a driver and armored vehicle to take Barron to
school, Reese said. An advance team of agents will swoop down on the school each
morning to make sure it's safe, he added.

Additional reporting by Daniel Halper

ivincent@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: staying tower: Melania Trump won't be moving to the White House and
will instead stay at Trump Tower with her son, Barron (left), while he attends
private school on the Upper West Side, sources said. They may join The Donald in
Washington, DC, at the end of the school year. (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             612 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Letters

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 515 words


Blas the divider

Mayor de Blasio drives the nails into his own coffin by downplaying the
importance to the tax base of Tiffany, Gucci and their surrounding businesses
("Tough luxe, sneers Blasio," Nov. 17).

This is utterly and woefully wrong and unbecoming of an elected official who's
supposed to represent the entire city, not just selected areas where his voter
base is strongest.

A "divide and conquer" strategy won't work in New York City. The tale of two
cities is just that - a tall tale promoted by a progressive mayor who seeks to
promote himself at the expense of the city we love and call home.

Robert Torres, Queens Village

Probe voter fraud

Board of Elections Commissioner Alan Schulkin was told by New York City
Democratic Party bosses that he won't be reappointed to another term after being
caught on an undercover video alleging that the city's municipal-ID program
contributes to voter fraud ("Fraud-citing election big out," Nov. 17).

The state should investigate Schulkin's allegations to determine if these ID
cards were used to allow noncitizens to vote in the recent election.

Jack Coughlin, Deer Park

Choking charters

The Post editorial, "Separate and Unequal," talks about Mayor de Blasio's
determination to "choke off charter school growth" by "staying the course,"
thereby rendering "seven hundred kids, mainly minority" educationally homeless
(Nov. 16).

The mayor's treatment of charter schools is a prime example of why Donald Trump
pleaded with African-American parents for their support during the presidential
campaign.

Here's what George W. Bush said in 2000 about good schools for minorities: "No
child in America should be segregated by low expectations, imprisoned by
illiteracy, abandoned to frustration and the darkness of self-doubt."

Bob Moffitt, Sloatsburg

Bon voyage, stars

Kudos to Maureen Callahan for having the guts to say what we Trump supporters
have been thinking: Celebrity endorsements don't matter anymore ("The fault in
Hollywood's loudmouth lefty stars," Nov. 13).

Unfortunately, all those "loudmouth lefty" stars probably won't keep their
promises to leave our country.

The hate-filled rants of these stars is destroying their images. People who hate
are ugly, and these once-beautiful and talented people have become ugly in our
eyes. So whenever we see their ugly faces on television, we turn them off.

Besides, what makes them think anyone is even interested in their opinions on
politics? We wish they would do us all a favor and leave. Our country would be a
far better place without them.

T.F. Crovatto, Ramsey, NJ

Jefferson's jerks

Any student who doesn't understand what Thomas Jefferson meant to liberty
doesn't understand history and, perhaps, shouldn't attend the University of
Virginia ("Judging Jefferson," Editorial, Nov. 16).

It's completely mindless that people judge the past by contemporary social
standards.

Yes, Jefferson was a slave-holder. But his words are responsible for freeing
more people than any other document in history.

Gary Schwartz, Fort Lee, NJ

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             613 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

FREE BANK ZONE St. Louis Fed head is confident Trump will not interfere

BYLINE: James Covert

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 412 words


A top monetary policy-maker has a thinly veiled message for Donald Trump: Keep
your paws off the Fed.

James Bullard, president of the St. Louis Federal Reserve, said this weekend
he's confident the president-elect won't follow through on campaign rhetoric
that had him trying to meddle in the Federal Reserve's affairs.

Then-candidate Trump, in a September debate, said Chair Janet Yellen's Fed was
too political and was keeping rates low to boost electoral prospects for the
Democrats and presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.

But Bullard, who has been hawkish on an interest rate hike, said on Sunday that
he has received assurances from President-elect Trump's transition team that he
will not interfere with the Fed.

"President-elect Trump's transition team has said that it wants to protect Fed
independence," Bullard said. "I take them at their word."

In an interview with Handelsblatt, a German magazine, Bullard noted that the
Fed's policy committee consists of a dozen people, and that Trump will only fill
a few seats.

"He would only gradually be able to put his stamp on the institution," Bullard
said. "I think you'll have a lot of continuity in policy-making in the
meantime."

On the campaign trail, Trump pledged to fire Yellen as soon as he entered the
Oval Office - despite the fact that her term extends to early 2018 - claiming
that she's under pressure from the Obama administration.

With Trump taking a more moderate tone since the election, most Fed watchers are
now skeptical that Trump would attempt such an obvious violation of the Fed's
independence.

Indeed, many speculate that Trump was merely pandering to the Fed-hating gold
bugs in his voting base. Others have noted that Trump's real estate holdings
have benefited from easy monetary policy.

"If inflation was running at 15 percent as in the 1980s, that might have been
the opportunity to say that this is not working and we have to rearrange
things," Bullard said. "That is not the case today."

Earlier in the weekend, Bullard told a panel discussion in Frankfurt that
Trump's plans to stimulate growth through infrastructure building and
tax-cutting could give the economy a medium-term boost before protectionism and
curbs on immigration began to take their toll.

"Trade is something that requires negotiation, it takes many years and there
would be impact on the economy and that would be ... perhaps 10 years," Bullard
said. " The same with immigration."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shot across the waves: St. Louis Federal Reserve chief James Bullard
(inset) chose an overseas location over the weekend to deliver a head-butt of
sorts to President-elect Trump on central bank independence. [Getty Images (2),
Reuters]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             614 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

President-Elect Trump Donald at Pivot-al Point Says he won't try to lock up
Hillary after all

BYLINE: Daniel Halper

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 481 words


President-elect Donald Trump said Tuesday he won't pursue criminal charges
against Hillary Clinton because it would divide the nation - and she's already
"suffered greatly."

"I don't want to hurt the Clintons - I really don't," Trump said in an interview
with The New York Times.

"She went through a lot and suffered greatly in many different ways."

When asked whether he would pledge not to prosecute the former secretary of
state, the president-elect said, "It's just not something that I feel very
strongly about."

The president-elect added he was also concerned about the impact after the
bitter election.

"I think it would be very divisive for the country," he said.

Trump's conciliatory gesture to Clinton is a sharp contrast to a key plank of
his winning campaign message.

At the second presidential debate in October, he told his rival, "If I win, I am
going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into
your situation because there has never been so many lies, so much deception."

Throughout her unsuccessful presidential bid, Clinton was dogged by an FBI probe
of her handling of classified information on her private e-mail server.

Trump was often met at campaign rallies with enthusiastic chants by his
supporters of "Lock her up!"

"Special prosecutor, here we come. Right?" Trump said when the crowd began the
chant at an Oct. 10 rally.

"If I win, we're going to appoint a special prosecutor . . . Because we cannot
allow this to happen in our country," he added.

On Tuesday, Trump spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway called his move a healing
gesture.

"I think Hillary Clinton still has to face the fact that a majority of Americans
don't find her to be honest or trustworthy, but if Donald Trump can help her
heal, then perhaps that's a good thing," she told MSNBC.

Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a former US attorney who had called
throughout the campaign for Clinton to be prosecuted, said Trump's shift was
fine with him.

"Look, there's a tradition in American politics that after you win an election,
you sort of put things behind you," he told reporters at Trump Tower. "And if
that's the decision he reached, that's perfectly consistent with sort of a
historical pattern of . . . you say a lot of things, even some bad things might
happen, and then you can sort of put it behind you in order to unite the
nation."

But the move was met critically by some.

Tom Fitton, president of the conservative watchdog group Judicial Watch, said it
would be a "betrayal of his promise to the American people" for Trump to abandon
the Clinton case.

"Donald Trump must commit his administration to a serious, independent
investigation of the very serious Clinton national-security, e-mail, and
pay-to-play scandals," he said, calling on the president-elect to "focus on
healing the broken justice system."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             615 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Defending the Electoral College

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 415 words


The Issue: Calls for the abolition of the Electoral College following Donald
Trump's win.

One of the main reasons we keep the Electoral College is that it gives smaller
states some say in the presidential election (" 'Outrage' Ulcers," Mark
Cunningham, PostOpinion, Nov. 19).

If we were to go only by the popular vote, the 12 to 15 most populated states
could dominate any national election. One-third of the states could essentially
run the entire country.

The problem with liberals is that they want a kind of government that doesn't
align with the vision of our Founding Fathers. Sorry, liberals, this is the
United States. Joseph Saraceno Gardena, Calif.

Instead of our current Electoral College, why not assign one electoral vote for
each congressional district that's won?

This way, states with big cities, such as New York, California and Illinois,
don't always go to one candidate.   Bob Lervolino Muttontown

Hillary Clinton maintains a 1.6 million-vote margin over Donald Trump.

However, if you take away California, which had a 3.4 million-vote margin for
Clinton, and New York, which had a 1.5 million-vote margin for her, Trump would
have won the popular vote.

The Founders were wise to not let two states dictate who becomes president.
David DiBello Brooklyn

One of the main reasons we keep the Electoral College is that it gives smaller
states some say in the presidential election (" 'Outrage' Ulcers," Mark
Cunningham, PostOpinion, Nov. 19).

If we were to go only by the popular vote, the 12 to 15 most populated states
could dominate any national election. One-third of the states could essentially
run the entire country.

The problem with liberals is that they want a kind of government that doesn't
align with the vision of our Founding Fathers. Sorry, liberals, this is the
United States. Joseph Saraceno Gardena, Calif.

Instead of our current Electoral College, why not assign one electoral vote for
each congressional district that's won?

This way, states with big cities, such as New York, California and Illinois,
don't always go to one candidate.   Bob Lervolino Muttontown

Hillary Clinton maintains a 1.6 million-vote margin over Donald Trump.

However, if you take away California, which had a 3.4 million-vote margin for
Clinton, and New York, which had a 1.5 million-vote margin for her, Trump would
have won the popular vote.

The Founders were wise to not let two states dictate who becomes president.
David DiBello Brooklyn

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             616 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

America's College Students: Upset - or Unhinged?

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 692 words


The Issue: Students across the country seeking therapy and protesting over
Donald Trump's election.

George Will absolutely nailed it with his column, "Idiot Winds" (Nov. 21). As an
educator for 40 years, I've never been so appalled by what I've seen on college
campuses. It's frightening what we're allowing to happen at institutions of
higher learning.

I agree with the principle of free speech and peaceful protest in appropriate
locations. However, the blatant disregard for the presidential election's
results is shocking.

Students need to be in class and studying for their respective careers instead
of constantly protesting.

Wade Meyer

Massilon, Ohio

On college campuses, we've seen puppy-dog therapy, Play-Doh, coloring books and
safe spaces. All of this because of an election. And these people are considered
adults?

Once upon a time in America, the Greatest Generation found themselves in "safe
spaces" too - in foxholes across Europe and the Pacific. How far we've fallen.

Tommy Mitchell

Brooklyn.

Hasn't this behavior by students shown just how irreparably polarized this
country has become? If this kind of behavior continues, could it lead to a
social confrontation along ideological lines?

John Mundell

Troy

People all over America, not only college students, are outraged by the election
of Donald Trump. He's a totally unqualified, narcissistic sociopath and a
ruthless demagogue.

Like him or not, President Obama is an infinitely better human being than Trump
will ever be. He's a good, decent and honorable man who has guided America with
great wisdom and skill through one of the most perilous times in its history.
Robert Berger

New Rochelle

We've all had disappointments when, in elections past, our preferred candidates
lost.

However, have we ever witnessed such disgraceful behavior as what's going on
now?

College students and professors are acting like kindergarten children.

As a retired early-childhood teacher, I can honestly say that comparison isn't
fair to my students - who were much more mature and reasonable.

Fay Sladowsky

Lawrence

George Will absolutely nailed it with his column, "Idiot Winds" (Nov. 21). As an
educator for 40 years, I've never been so appalled by what I've seen on college
campuses. It's frightening what we're allowing to happen at institutions of
higher learning.

I agree with the principle of free speech and peaceful protest in appropriate
locations. However, the blatant disregard for the presidential election's
results is shocking.

Students need to be in class and studying for their respective careers instead
of constantly protesting.

Wade Meyer

Massilon, Ohio

On college campuses, we've seen puppy-dog therapy, Play-Doh, coloring books and
safe spaces. All of this because of an election. And these people are considered
adults?

Once upon a time in America, the Greatest Generation found themselves in "safe
spaces" too - in foxholes across Europe and the Pacific. How far we've fallen.

Tommy Mitchell

Brooklyn.

Hasn't this behavior by students shown just how irreparably polarized this
country has become? If this kind of behavior continues, could it lead to a
social confrontation along ideological lines?

John Mundell

Troy

People all over America, not only college students, are outraged by the election
of Donald Trump. He's a totally unqualified, narcissistic sociopath and a
ruthless demagogue.

Like him or not, President Obama is an infinitely better human being than Trump
will ever be. He's a good, decent and honorable man who has guided America with
great wisdom and skill through one of the most perilous times in its history.
Robert Berger

New Rochelle

We've all had disappointments when, in elections past, our preferred candidates
lost.

However, have we ever witnessed such disgraceful behavior as what's going on
now?

College students and professors are acting like kindergarten children.

As a retired early-childhood teacher, I can honestly say that comparison isn't
fair to my students - who were much more mature and reasonable.

Fay Sladowsky

Lawrence

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An anti-Trump protester.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             617 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

President-Elect Trump Electoral College block scheme vs. Don

BYLINE: Danika Fears

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 177 words


At least six Democrats on the Electoral College are prepared to abandon Hillary
Clinton to vote for a Republican other than Donald Trump - in hopes GOP electors
will join them to keep the president-elect under the 270 votes he'll need to
enter the White House.

The Democrats are trying to persuade Republicans to ignore their oaths and ditch
Trump, according to Politico. The electors meet on Dec. 19.

The Democrats would have to persuade 37 Republican electors to defect. The
decision would then go to the GOP-controlled House of Representatives. It's
unlikely that will happen, but the defectors could highlight the issue of
abolishing the Electoral College.

"Reform . . . has a better chance of succeeding than this effort," said
University of Pennsylvania constitutionl law Professor Kermit Roosevelt, Teddy'd
great-grandson.

Meanwhile, Clinton's ex-campaign head, John Podesta, spoke with activists and
lawyers about challenging results in three key swing states where they claim to
have found voting irregularities, according to New York magazine.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             618 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

President-Elect Trump Kushner eyed as mideast aide Israel peace 'plan'

BYLINE: Bob Fredericks

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 478 words


Donald Trump said Tuesday his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, could head up US
efforts to broker a peace agreement in the Middle East, despite not playing a
formal role in his administration.

"I would love to be the one who made peace with Israel and the Palestinians.
That would be such a great achievement," the president-elect said during a
meeting with The New York Times.

Kushner, he added, could be the point man in any peace talks.

The 35-year-old Kushner, Ivanka Trump's husband, has been credited with helping
steer the then-Republican presidential candidate's campaign onto a winning path.

But while Kushner has been rumored to be interested in formally joining the
White House, the president-elect indicated that a formal role was unlikely,
according to a Times reporter's tweet.

Kushner was hardly a household name outside the rarified world of Manhattan's
media and real-estate elite when Trump began his quixotic presidential campaign.

But by Election Day, he emerged as "Donald Trump's campaign savior" through his
connections to tech giants from Silicon Valley and savvy use of social media, a
new profile in Forbes magazine revealed Tuesday.

Kushner headed up the campaign's "secret data operation . . . like a Silicon
Valley start-up," and propelled the gaffe-prone candidate to an unlikely
victory, according to Forbes.

"It's hard to overstate and hard to summarize Jared's role in the campaign,"
billionaire Peter Thiel, the only Silicon Valley big to publicly back Trump,
told the magazine.

"If Trump was the CEO, Jared was effectively the chief operating officer," Thiel
added.

"Jared Kushner is the biggest surprise of the 2016 election," said Eric Schmidt,
the former Google CEO. "Best I can tell, he actually ran the campaign and did it
with essentially no resources."

With Kushner on board, the Trump campaign "delved into message tailoring,
sentiment manipulation and machine learning," according to Forbes.

It helped that Kushner knew the right people.

Those included the co-investors in Cadre, an online marketplace for real-estate
deals that Kushner helped launch: Thiel, Alibaba's Jack Ma and Kushner's own
young­er brother, Josh, a venture capitalist.

"I called some of my friends from Silicon Valley, some of the best digital
marketers in the world, and asked how you scale this stuff. They gave me their
subcontractors," Kushner explained.

"I called somebody who works for one of the technology companies that I work
with and I had them give me a tutorial on how to use Facebook micro-targeting."

Following his efforts, the Trump campaign went from selling $8,000 worth of
"Make America Great Again" hats a day to $80,000.

That generated revenue, expanded the visibility of Trump's message and proved
that the strategy worked.

Additional reporting by ­ Daniel Halper

rfredericks@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kin-do spirit: Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner was key in winning the
election and may get a plum job in DC. [Ordonez/Cepeda/INFphoto.com]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             619 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

President-Elect Trump 3 swing states nearing recount

BYLINE: Bruce Golding

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 246 words


Failed Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein on Wednesday announced
plans to force a recount of votes in three crucial swing states - a long-shot
move that could help vanquished Democrat Hillary Clinton.

Stein, who garnered a dismal 1 percent of the national vote, said challenging
the tallies in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan was essential to answer
questions about a possible cyber-attack on electronic voting machines.

She appealed for $2.5 million-plus in donations to pay for the effort, which
would have to be started by Friday, the deadline for filing papers in Wisconsin.

An online counter showed that she had raked in more than $2.2 million in
donations by early Thursday, and a Stein campaign lawyer notified the Wisconsin
Elections Commission she intended to seek a recount.

There are also deadlines of Monday in Pennsylvania, and next Wednesday in
Michigan.

All three states went for President Obama in 2012, but President-elect Donald
Trump turned Pennsylvania and Wisconsin red and held a narrow, 10,704-vote lead
over Clinton in Michigan as of Wednesday afternoon.

Last week, activists reportedly urged Clinton's campaign to force recounts in
all three states, citing data showing she got 7 percent fewer votes in Wisconsin
counties that used electronic voting machines than in those that relied on paper
ballots and optical scanners.

Clinton has remained mum on the possibility of a recount.

Additional reporting by Daniel Halper

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             620 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Wrong Road for an Ex-Prez EDITORIAL

BYLINE: EDITORIAL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 419 words


President Obama has signaled that he'll break with tradition and speak out on
political issues after leaving the White House - almost surely in opposition to
his successor. We hope he thinks this one through again.

In Peru on Sunday, Obama refused to commit to sitting on the sidelines. On core
issues "about our values and our ideals," he said, "I'll examine it when it
comes."

He was more blunt to Organizing for Action activists: "You're going to see me
early next year, and we're going to be in a position where we can start cooking
up all kinds of great stuff."

He surely realizes that speaking out after January puts at risk his current
popularity, and is willing to pay that price to defend his principles. Heck, for
all his 2008 talk of having a "post-partisan" White House, he wound up becoming
one of America's most partisan presidents ever.

But that didn't work out too well: His leadership has cost his party dearly in
Congress and in the states - leaving Democrats in their worst shape in nearly a
century.

Yes, the press still adores him, and desperate Dems may welcome his help. Thing
is, he hasn't been great at selling anything except himself.

His pitch for ObamaCare never swayed the public - Democrats passed the law
despite its unpopularity, and have been paying for it at the polls ever since.
Nor did he ever persuade the voters to love the Iran deal, his other big
"legacy" item. And Hillary Clinton lost despite Obama's every campaign effort.

Meanwhile, Obama risks drowning out the new voices Democrats sorely need if
they're to bounce back. New stars can't rise if the old ones refuse to leave the
stage.

He'd also burden the party not just with old issues, but old attitudes.

Donald Trump won - first over 16 Republicans, then over Hillary Clinton -
because voters want change. They rejected both sides of the divisions that have
defined Washington for decades.

From giving job interviews to harsh critics like Mitt Romney, to dropping talk
of a special prosecutor for Hillary Clinton, the president-elect is signaling
that he wants to move beyond old battles. After all, Trump is no conservative
ideologue, but a dealmaker.

Maybe Democrats will be able to advance their agenda by working with him on some
things while they rebuild their brand - if they're not held back by an elder
statesman who can't let go of the battles of his glory days.

Obama was often accused of running a "permanent campaign." Leaving office would
be a wise time to finally end it.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             621 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Gillibrand calls for 2020

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 281 words


Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand is already reaching out to top Hillary Clinton donors
about the 2020 presidential race. Sources tell us that the New York senator has
been personally making calls to some of Clinton's biggest backers to "talk about
the direction of the country."

One source said, "She isn't directly asking donors about her chances in 2020,
but it is implied." However, while Gillibrand has close ties to Clinton's
political network, the move hasn't gone down well with some Clinton supporters.
"Many of us are still grieving. It's like going after the widow at a funeral." A
spokesperson for Gillibrand didn't get back to us. If she were to run, it could
set up an interesting clash of New Yorkers for the Democratic nomination. Gov.
Andrew Cuomo has already made it clear he wants to make a run for the White
House. Other names in the frame include New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker, former San
Antonio Mayor  Julián Castro and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren. On the
Republican side, if Donald Trump doesn't run for a second term, there are 2020
rumors about Rep. Paul Ryan, Sen. Marco Rubio and Sen. Ted Cruz. And, since the
public loves an outsider, let's not forget Kanye West. After announcing his
intention to run at the VMAs last year, he explained to Britain's BBC Radio 1,
"When I talk about the idea of being president, I'm not saying I have any
political views." He added, "I don't have views on politics, I just have a view
on humanity, on people, on the truth. If there is anything that I can do with my
time and my day to somehow make a difference while I'm alive, I'm going to try
to do it." Then, Melania Trump wouldn't be the only first lady to have posed
nude.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             622 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

JUDGE & Fury Lomachenko-Walters could continue to fuel Kovalev scoring heat
FIGHTIN' WORDS

BYLINE: George Willis

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 616 words


Perhaps it was some lingering hostility over the presidential election results,
but much of the boxing community lost its collective mind over the decision that
awarded Andre Ward the light heavyweight championship over Sergey Kovalev last
Saturday night in Las Vegas.

Like all three judges, I scored the fight 114-113 for Ward, who was knocked down
in the second round, but rallied in the second half of the fight.

One apparent Trump supporter slammed my inbox claiming I must be a Democrat, who
took my frustration over the election out "on an innocent victim." And, of
course, there were the racist reactions: "Let me guess. You are black and
support the black guy. You f-----g dope."

And this from another reader which had me scratching my head: "We both know your
newspaper is antiwhite and so are you."

Lovely.

You can judge for yourself Saturday night when HBO airs a replay of the bout
just before what could be an even better fight than Kovalev-Ward.

Vasyl Lomachenko (6-1, 4 KOs) of the Ukraine defends his WBO junior lightweight
championship against Nicholas Walters (26-0-1, 21 KOs) of Jamaica at the
Cosmopolitan in Las Vegas. It will mark the 2,000th event Top Rank boss Bob Arum
has promoted in his 50-year career .

Arum calls Lomachenko the best fighter he has seen since Ali.

"There is nobody that I have seen and there have been a lot of great technical
fighters that I have seen - Alex Arguello was one, Floyd Mayweather certainly
and Manny Pacquiao - but there has been nobody with the skills that Vasyl
Lomachenko has."

A two-time Olympic gold medalist, Lomachenko has become a two-division world
champion in just seven professional fights. He captured the WBO junior
lightweight title last June when he dominated defending champion Roman "Rocky"
Martinez, scoring a fifth round knockout.

In Walters, Lomachenko faces a knockout artist who has won 11 of his last 14
fights by stoppage. He won the WBA featherweight title in 2012 and successfully
defended it three times during a three-year reign.

"They don't call him the 'Axe Man' for nothing," Arum said.

Lomachenko is trying to build his name in the States and knows a win would raise
his profile.

"This is a very important bout for me because many boxing experts and many
people in boxing rank Walters as the highest-rated fighter in our division," he
said.

Walters, 30, hasn't fought in 11 months, but has no concerns about ring rust.

"I wouldn't take the fight if I thought I wasn't going to be ready for the
fight," Walters said.

Interestingly, two of the three judges who will score Lomachenko-Walters - Burt
Clements and Glenn Trowbridge - judged Kovalev-Ward, while the third judge
assigned to Saturday's bout, Adalaide Byrd, was appointed by the Nevada Athletic
Commission over the objection of Top Rank, which promotes both fighters.

"They're all good judges," said Top Rank Vice President Carl Moretti. "It's the
fact you go through the whole process and you object to someone and provide the
written stuff they ask for and they still assign her. It shows a lack of respect
for the process and a lack of respect for Top Rank."

It also seems a bit puzzling the NAC assigned Clements and Trowbridge to the
main event a week after all the controversy created by the Kovalev-Ward
decision.

"Last week's fight could have gone either way," Moretti said. "But why put your
commission and those judges right back in the frying pan with a Russian fighter
with the same manager [as Kovalev]. Will they react to that and the controversy
and look at the fight different? "

PREDICTION: Judges won't be a factor this time. Lomachenko by late stoppage.

george.wills@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Strap match: Vasyl Lomachenko will put his WBO junior lightweight belt
on the line against Nicholas Walters on Saturday. Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             623 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Lomachenko's big night could further fuel judges' heat FIGHTIN' WORDS

BYLINE: George Willis

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 616 words


Perhaps it was some lingering hostility over the presidential election results,
but much of the boxing community lost its collective mind over the decision that
awarded Andre Ward the light heavyweight championship over Sergey Kovalev last
Saturday night in Las Vegas.

Like all three judges, I scored the fight 114-113 for Ward, who was knocked down
in the second round, but rallied in the second half of the fight.

One apparent Trump supporter slammed my inbox claiming I must be a Democrat, who
took my frustration over the election out "on an innocent victim." And of
course, there were the racist reactions: "Let me guess. You are black and
support the black guy. You f-----g dope."

And this from another reader which had me scratching my head: "We both know your
newspaper is antiwhite and so are you."

Lovely.

You can judge for yourself Saturday night when HBO airs a replay of the bout
just before what could be an even better fight than Kovalev-Ward.

Vasyl Lomachenko (6-1, 4 KOs) of the Ukraine defends his WBO junior lightweight
championship against Nicholas Walters (26-0-1, 21 KOs) of Jamaica at the
Cosmopolitan in Las Vegas. It will mark the 2,000th event Top Rank boss Bob Arum
has promoted in his 50-year career .

Arum calls Lomachenko the best fighter he has seen since Ali.

"There is nobody that I have seen and there have been a lot of great technical
fighters that I have seen - Alex Arguello was one, Floyd Mayweather certainly
and Manny Pacquiao - but there has been nobody with the skills that Vasyl
Lomachenko has."

A two-time Olympic gold medalist, Lomachenko has become a two-division world
champion in just seven professional fights. He captured the WBO junior
lightweight title last June when he dominated defending champion Roman "Rocky"
Martinez, scoring a fifth round knockout.

In Walters, Lomachenko faces a knockout artist who has won 11 of his last 14
fights by stoppage. He won the WBA featherweight title in 2012 and successfully
defended it three times during a three-year reign.

"They don't call him the 'Axe Man' for nothing," Arum said.

Lomachenko is trying to build his name in the States and knows a win would raise
his profile.

"This is a very important bout for me because many boxing experts and many
people in boxing rank Walters as the highest-rated fighter in our division," he
said.

Walters, 30, hasn't fought in 11 months, but has no concerns about ring rust.

"I wouldn't take the fight if I thought I wasn't going to be ready for the
fight," Walters said.

Interestingly, two of the three judges who will score Lomachenko-Walters - Burt
Clements and Glenn Trowbridge - judged Kovalev-Ward, while the third judge
assigned to Saturday's bout, Adalaide Byrd, was appointed by the Nevada Athletic
Commission over the objection of Top Rank, which promotes both fighters.

"They're all good judges," said Top Rank Vice President Carl Moretti. "It's the
fact you go through the whole process and you object to someone and provide the
written stuff they ask for and they still assign her. It shows a lack of respect
for the process and a lack of respect for Top Rank."

It also seems a bit puzzling the NAC assigned Clements and Trowbridge to the
main event a week after all the controversy created by the Kovalev-Ward
decision.

"Last week's fight could have gone either way," Moretti said. "But why put your
commission and those judges right back in the frying pan with a Russian fighter
with the same manager [as Kovalev]. Will they react to that and the controversy
and look at the fight different? "

PREDICTION: Judges won't be a factor this time. Lomachenko by late stoppage.

george.wills@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             624 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Trumper tantrum Claims 'voter fraud' cost him Commander in Tweet

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz and Bruce Golding

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 333 words


The Commander in Tweet enjoyed his own Cyber Sunday, firing off 11 Twitter
blasts against Hillary Clinton, a looming election recount and what he claimed
was "serious voter fraud" that cost him the popular vote.

"Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California," the
president-elect tweeted at 7 p.m., without citing any evidence. "So why isn't
the media reporting on this? Serious bias - big problem!"

In an earlier tweet he claimed that election fraud was the only reason he lost
the popular vote by nearly 2 million.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," he tweeted
shortly before flying back to New York City following a Thanksgiving getaway
with his family at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla.

The president-elect started off his Twitter marathon early Sunday morning with a
flurry of tweets criticizing Clinton's support for a recount in three pivotal
swing states.

Trump began by accusing Clinton of hypocrisy, noting she "conceded the election
when she called me just prior to the victory speech and after the results were
in. Nothing will change."

He then threw his vanquished opponent's words in her face.

Trump noted how Clinton earlier said that refusing to accept election results
was "a direct threat to our democracy" and later told her supporters they owed
him "an open mind and the chance to lead."

"So much time and money will be spent - same result! Sad," Trump added.

Green Party candidate Jill Stein has raised more than $6 million to force
recounts in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan, where activists have suggested
a cyber-attack - possibly by Russia - may have rigged the results in favor of
Trump.

Clinton campaign lawyer Marc Elias said Saturday that his team would
"participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to
all sides," noting that they had not found any evidence of wrongdoing.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             625 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Donald in new 'show'down Kellyanne takes to TV to air her 'Never Mitt' plea

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz and Bruce Golding

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 509 words


TV is the new "great communicator" for Donald Trump's advisers.

His campaign-manager-turned-transition aide, Kellyanne Conway, gave the
president-elect some eyebrow-raising advice Sunday by publicly opposing Mitt
Romney for secretary of state.

Conway appeared on a series of morning talk shows to blast Romney over his
intense past criticism of her boss, saying he was "nothing but awful" and
questioning whether he even voted for Trump.

"There was the 'Never Trump' movement and then there was Governor Mitt Romney,"
Conway told ABC's "This Week." "He went out of his way to hurt Donald Trump."

On CNN' s "State of the Union," Conway said Trump supporters "felt betrayed"
that Romney was under consideration, and she attacked his credentials, wondering
if he'd "been around the globe doing something on behalf of the United States of
which we're unaware."

Conway also told NBC's "Meet the Press" that she was "just astonished at the
breadth, the breathtaking volume and intensity of blow-back that I see," citing
social-media outrage and "particularly in private communications."

Conway's three-network media blitz followed the televised counsel that Trump
campaign adviser Newt Gingrich delivered during the controversy over Trump's
Twitter tirade against ex-Miss Universe Alicia Machado.

"You can't tweet at 3 in the morning. Period. There's no excuse. Ever. Not if
you're gonna be president of the United States," Gingrich said during a Sept. 30
appearance on the Fox News Channel.

Conway last month admitted that Trump's keen attention to TV news made it an
ideal way to reach him.

"A way you can communicate with him is you go on TV to communicate," she told
New York magazine.

Also Sunday, incoming White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus refused to tell
"Fox News Sunday" if Romney would have to publicly apologize to land the
secretary of state job.

"I'm not going to do the play by play . . . on what's going to be required or
where things are at," Priebus said.

In March, Romney delivered a blistering speech in which he called Trump "a con
man," "a fake," "a phony" and "a fraud." Trump shot back by calling the 2012
Republican presidential nominee a "choker" and saying he "walks like a penguin."

Priebus also said that in addition to interviewing Romney, ex-Mayor Rudy
Giuliani and retired Marine Corps Gen. John Kelly, Trump was "going to be
talking to others next week" before nominating anyone.

Conway's broadsides against Romney fueled speculation that Trump was in on the
attacks and was planning to humiliate Romney by rejecting him, The Associated
Press reported.

During Thanksgiving dinner at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., Trump
asked his guests for input about whom he should choose, Page Six reported.

Texas Sen. Ted Cruz called both Romney and Giuliani "good, capable, serious men"
during an appearance on "This Week."

Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, meanwhile, didn't discuss Romney during an appearance
on "State of the Union," and wouldn't say if he would vote to confirm Giuliani.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: top-flight: Donald Trump - having swapped his "Make America Great
Again" cap for headgear suitable for the 45th president (inset) - joins wife
Melania boarding a plane in Palm Beach Sunday, amid debate over his Cabinet
picks. (AP; Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             626 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

FAST TAKES

BYLINE: COMPILED BY SETH MANDEL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 696 words


Libertarian: The Press Is Normalizing Neo-Nazis

At Reason.com, David Harsanyi asks: "Why does the March for Life, a rally that
attracts tens of thousands of anti-abortion Americans to Washington, DC, every
year, get less prominent media coverage than a fringe neo-Nazi gathering?" His
answer: mutual benefit. The media use the outrage to boost ratings. The
neo-Nazis, meanwhile, get a boost from the visibility. This doesn't mean we
should pretend they don't exist, Harsanyi says, or that their ideas aren't
noxious: "We have a responsibility to use morally precise language when
referring to this group (which, in this case, is the neo-Nazi group);
contextualize their influence (which is little but more than it should be); and
unequivocally call them out. We should never, ever glamorize them for political
purposes."

Elections expert: GOP's Demographic Challenge

After the GOP's drubbing in 2012, the party conducted an "autopsy" to determine
what went wrong. That report recommended, among other things, a less
antagonistic posture toward immigrants and minorities. Yet, writes Stu
Rothenberg at The Washington Post, Republicans "nominated a 70-year-old white
man" who then "spent his campaign criticizing Mexico, Mexicans and Americans of
Hispanic ancestry." And he won. So does this mean the autopsy was wrong? Not so
fast. "Even with Trump's victory, the nation's demographic shift continued," he
writes. "Whites constituted 70 percent of all voters earlier this month, down
from 72 percent in 2012, 74 percent in 2008, 77 percent in 2004 and 81 percent
in 2000." The autopsy, then, "was not amiss in urging party strategists to
remember that demographic changes are afoot."

From the right: Dems Aren't the Party of FDR Anymore

If Republicans should heed 2016's demographic warning, Democrats should heed the
geographic one, Noah Rothman points out at Commentary. The left's rage against
the Electoral College misses a key point: "What the results of the 2016
presidential election should be communicating to Democrats is that they need a
more efficient geographic allocation of their vote share, and that means
recreating a more robust coalition of voters." Their focus on the fact that
Hillary Clinton won the popular vote, by contrast, is leading them to misread
the electorate - and their own belief in being the party of FDR: "That
Democratic Party was a party of productivity, not dependency. It was a party of
disparate cultural and intellectual traditions, not homogeneity."

From the left: Pelosi Must Plan for Succession

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, notes Jonathan Bernstein at Bloomberg, has
maintained her power despite losing because "party leadership choices are about
internal congressional politics, not electoral politics, and by all accounts she
has been first rate at managing the Democratic coalition." Yet, says Bernstein,
"new blood is needed to lead the Democrats." Meanwhile, Pelosi is 76 - and the
second- and third-ranking House Democrats, Steny Hoyer and Jim Clyburn, are 77
and 76, respectively. Meaning Pelosi & Co. need to think about a succession
plan: They "should be angling now to find a new leader who can represent the
Democrats as well as the current leader has."

Foreign-policy wonk: The Fragile Iran Nuke Deal

Amid the talk of Donald Trump possibly killing the Iran nuclear deal, the truth
is he could also just let it die. Suzanne Maloney, a foreign-policy senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution, notes that Trump will "have his pick of
coercive economic measures to wield against Iran, with nearly three dozen bills
circulating in Congress penalizing Tehran for its missile program, regional
power projection and human-rights abuses. New sanctions could stymie Iran's
efforts to attract foreign investment and rebuild trade ties with Europe and
Asia." And those sanctions bills could "prompt Tehran to abrogate the deal." Yet
the deal's supporters should accept their role in the deal's fragility: "The
American commitment to the JCPOA hangs from the narrow thread of executive
authority: the president's power to temporarily waive or suspend economic
sanctions on Iran." - Compiled by Seth Mandel

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Franklin Roosevelt

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             627 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Donald's new 'show'down Kellyanne takes to TV to air her 'Never Mitt' plea

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz and Bruce Golding

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 510 words


TV is the new "great communicator" for Donald Trump's advisers.

His campaign-manager-turned-transition aide, Kellyanne Conway, gave the
president-elect some eyebrow-raising advice Sunday by publicly opposing Mitt
Romney for secretary of state.

Conway appeared on a series of morning talk shows to blast Romney over his
intense past criticism of her boss, saying he was "nothing but awful" and
questioning whether he even voted for Trump.

"There was the 'Never Trump' movement and then there was Governor Mitt Romney,"
Conway told ABC's "This Week." "He went out of his way to hurt Donald Trump."

On CNN' s "State of the Union," Conway said Trump supporters "felt betrayed"
that Romney was under consideration, and she attacked his credentials, wondering
if he'd "been around the globe doing something on behalf of the United States of
which we're unaware."

Conway also told NBC's "Meet the Press" that she was "just astonished at the
breadth, the breathtaking volume and intensity of blow-back that I see," citing
social-media outrage and "particularly in private communications."

Conway's three-network media blitz followed the televised counsel that Trump
campaign adviser Newt Gingrich delivered during the controversy over Trump's
twitter tirade against ex-Miss Universe Alicia Machado.

"You can't tweet at 3 in the morning. Period. There's no excuse. Ever. Not if
you're gonna be president of the United States," Gingrich said during a Sept. 30
appearance on the Fox News Channel.

Conway last month admitted that Trump's keen attention to TV news made it an
ideal way to reach him.

"A way you can communicate with him is you go on TV to communicate," she told
New York magazine.

Also Sunday, incoming White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus refused to tell
"Fox News Sunday" if Romney would have to publicly apologize to land the
secretary of state job.

"I'm not going to do the play by play . . . on what's going to be required or
where things are at," Priebus said.

In March, Romney delivered a blistering speech in which he called Trump "a con
man," "a fake," "a phony" and "a fraud." Trump shot back by calling the 2012
Republican presidential nominee a "choker" and saying he "walks like a penguin."

Priebus also said that in addition to interviewing Romney, ex-Mayor Rudy
Giuliani and retired Marine Corps Gen. John Kelly, Trump was "going to be
talking to others next week" before nominating anyone.

Conway's broadsides against Romney fueled speculation that Trump was in on the
attacks and was planning to humiliate Romney by rejecting him, The Associated
Press reported.

During Thanksgiving dinner at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., Trump
asked his guests for input about whmo he should choose, The New York Times
reported.

Texas Sen. Ted Cruz called both Romney and Giuliani "good, capable, serious men"
during an appearance on "This Week."

Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, meanwhile, didn't discuss Romney during an appearance
on "State of the Union," and wouldn't say if he'd vote to confirm Giuliani.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: top-flight: President-elect Donald Trump and wife Melania board a plane
in Palm Beach, Fla., Sunday, amid debate over his Cabinet choices. (AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             628 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

'Honest' Cabinet Critics in, as with Abe

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz and Bruce Golding

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 453 words


"The Donald" is modeling himself after "Honest Abe" as he weighs his Cabinet
choices, incoming White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus said Sunday.

President-elect Donald Trump's consideration of former harsh critic Mitt Romney
as secretary of state shows he's considering a "team of rivals," such as the one
Abraham Lincoln assembled, Priebus told "Fox News Sunday."

"He's going to be making the best decision for the American people," Priebus
said.

"It isn't a matter of warfare. I mean, there's a lot of opinions about this and,
yes, it is sort of a 'team of rivals' concept if you were to go towards the
Governor Romney concept."

Trump has already embraced South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley - who once called him
"everything a governor doesn't want in a president" - and picked her for UN
ambassador.

Besides considering Romney for secretary of state, he has reportedly offered
one-time primary opponent Ben Carson a job as secretary of housing and urban
development.

Other vanquished foes who have met with Trump during the transition period
include New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who was the first to endorse him, Texas
Sen. Ted Cruz and ex-Texas Gov. Rick Perry.

Acclaimed historian Doris Kearns Goodwin popularized the "Team of Rivals" theory
with her best-selling 2005 biography of Abraham Lincoln, which Steven Spielberg
later turned into the Oscar-winning movie "Lincoln."

In Lincoln's case, his team included William Henry Seward, whom the 16th
president tapped as secretary of state after scoring an upset win over Seward at
the 1860 GOP convention.

TEAM OF RIVALS

Donald Trump may try to emulate Abraham Lincoln in 1860 by stocking his Cabinet
with vanquished foes, his incoming chief of staff, Reince Priebus, said Sunday.

TRumP'S PiCkS & PoSSibLeS

n South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley was named ambassador to the united Nations
after supporting Trump rival Sen. Marco Rubio during the Republican primaries.

n ex-massachusetts Gov. mitt Romney is a contender for secretary of state,
despite accusing Trump of "playing members of the American public for suckers"
during the campaign.

n Dr. ben Carson, a former GOP presidential contender, is mulling an offer to
become secretary of housing and urban development.

LiNCoLN'S PiCkS

n NY Sen. William Seward was named secretary of state after finishing second to
Lincoln at the Republican presidential convention.

n ohio Gov. Salmon Chase was elected to the Senate after failing to win the
presidential nod, but resigned after just two days to become Lincoln's treasury
secretary.

n ex-missouri Rep. edward bates, another also-ran at the GOP convention, became
Lincoln's attorney general.

marisa.schultz@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Donald Trump in Lincoln tophat. (NY Post photo composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             629 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Don recounts Hill hypocrisy Commander in Tweet

BYLINE: Marisa Schultz and Bruce Golding

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 256 words


Donald Trump blasted Hillary Clinton's support for a recount in three pivotal
swing states, with a flurry of tweets early Sunday morning.

Trump started by accusing Clinton of hypocrisy, noting she "conceded the
election when she called me just prior to the victory speech and after the
results were in. Nothing will change."

He then threw his vanquished opponent's words in her face.

Trump noted how Clinton said refusing to accept election results was "a direct
threat to our democracy" and later told her supporters they owed him "an open
mind and the chance to lead."

"So much time and money will be spent - same result! Sad," Trump added.

Trump then claimed that election fraud was the only reason he lost the popular
vote by nearly 2 million, but did not provide any evidence.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," he tweeted
shortly before flying back to New York City following a Thanksgiving getaway at
his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla.

Green Party candidate Jill Stein has raised more than $6 million to force
recounts in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan, where activists have suggested
a cyber-attack - possibly by Russia - may have rigged the results in favor of
Trump.

Clinton campaign lawyer Marc Elias said Saturday that they would "participate in
order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides,"
noting that they hadn't found any evidence of wrong-doing.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             630 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Surgin' general Petraeus a fave for State, despite leaks

BYLINE: Bob fredericks

SECTION: Sports Extra; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 309 words


Donald Trump met Monday with ex-CIA Director David Petraeus, who is a leading
candidate for secretary of state, despite leaking secrets to a paramour during
an extramarital affair.

But Trump sounded forgiving after spending an hour with the retired four-star
Army general at Trump Tower.

"Just met with General Petraeus - was very impressed!" Trump wrote on Twitter.

And Petraeus had warm words in return as he left the meeting.

"I was with him for about an hour. He basically walked us around the world,"
said Petraeus, who earned acclaim for leading troop surges in Iraq and
Afghanistan. "Showed a great grasp of a variety of the challenges that are out
there and some of the opportunities as well. Very good conversation and we'll
see where it goes from here."

While Petraeus remained the preferred choice for secretary of state among some
prominent Republicans - including Arizona Sen. John McCain - 2012 GOP
presidential candidate Mitt Romney and Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) are still in
the running and will meet with Trump on Tuesday.

Rudy Giuliani and hawkish ex-UN Ambassador John Bolton also were being
considered.

Petraeus quit the top CIA post in November 2012 after his extramarital affair
with his biographer, Paula Broadwell, went public.

He remained under FBI investigation and kept a low profile until March 2015,
when he got a sweetheart plea deal with the feds in which he admitted to leaking
classified material to Broadwell and lying to the FBI about it.

The following month, a federal judge sentenced him to two years' probation plus
a fine of $100,000.

Trump was "inclined" to pick Petraeus, a source told Bloomberg News, despite the
security breach - though he railed against Hillary Clinton for exposing
classified material through her use of a private e-mail server as secretary of
state. With Post Wires

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Contenders: David Petraeus, who leaked classified info to a mistress,
is being eyed for secretary of state, as are Rudy Giuliani and Mitt Romney.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             631 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Saying Adios to a Tyrant: Castro's Bloody Legacy

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 375 words


The Issue: Reactions to the death of Cuban revolutionary and dictator Fidel
Castro.

Let's get this straight: Fidel Castro was a murderer ("Fidel Dead," Nov. 26).

He represented the antithesis of US values. He killed, maimed and kidnapped his
own people and damn near caused World War III.

Castro was scum - good riddance. Cuba libre!  Jim Sherwood Carmel

It has sure been a tough month for the American left.

First, their anointed presidential candidate lost to a political neophyte. Now
comes the death of their often romanticized revolutionary hero, Castro. How much
more can these poor people take?

I sure hope the universities have plenty of Play-Doh, coloring books, crayons
and crying rooms available for the delicate cupcakes that make up their student
bodies. Ken Rosen Brooklyn

Why don't we just ask the de Blasios to represent our country at Castro's
funeral? They honeymooned there, so they're familiar with the terrain and can
even catch up with old friends.

New York City may even get lucky if they decide to stay there permanently.  Mike
Kiely The Bronx

As Cuban Americans rightly celebrate the death of Castro, it's inspiring to see
so many American flags interspersed with Cuban flags. God Bless America! Cuba
libre!  Joe Mulvanerton Old Bridge, NJ

The entire free world celebrates the announcement of Castro's death.

President John F. Kennedy called Cuba the "imprisoned island." With Castro's
death, we can finally see a future where one more link in the chain of socialist
slavery has been severed.

Castro's accomplishments: no free press, no private property, almost no private
jobs, no free elections, no products on store shelves, abject poverty and a
hopeless population.  Ed Galorenzo Washington, NJ

Castro is finally dead, and Raul Castro can't be far behind. Now can we
acknowledge the wisdom of President Obama's strategy of outreach?

When Raul kicks off, there'll be chaos and anarchy. It's good that Obama has
found a way to bring stability and democracy to Cuba with the United States in
the lead as a friend and a partner.

Albert Elyjiw Ossining

Mayor de Blasio lost his personal hero, and the Democratic Party lost the
inspiration for its economic policy. John Myers Neptune, NJ

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fidel Castro

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             632 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Surgin' general Petraeus a fave for State, despite his leaks

BYLINE: Bob fredericks

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 314 words


President-elect Donald Trump met Monday with ex-CIA Director David Petraeus, who
is a leading candidate for secretary of state, despite leaking secrets to a
paramour during an extramarital affair.

But Trump sounded forgiving after spending an hour with the retired four-star
Army general at Trump Tower.

"Just met with General Petraeus - was very impressed!" Trump wrote on Twitter.

And Petraeus had warm words in return as he left the meeting.

"I was with him for about an hour. He basically walked us around the world,"
said Petraeus, who earned acclaim for leading troop surges in Iraq and
Afghanistan. "Showed a great grasp of a variety of the challenges that are out
there and some of the opportunities as well. Very good conversation and we'll
see where it goes from here,"

While Petraeus remained the preferred choice for secretary of state among some
prominent Republicans - including Arizona Sen. John McCain - 2012 GOP
presidential candidate Mitt Romney and Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) are still in
the running and will meet with Trump on Tuesday.

Rudy Giuliani and hawkish ex-UN Ambassador John Bolton also were being
considered.

Petraeus quit the top CIA post in November 2012 after his extramarital affair
with his biographer, Paula Broadwell, went public.

He remained under FBI investigation and kept a low profile until March 2015 when
he got a sweetheart plea deal with the feds in which he admitted to leaking
classified material to Broadwell and lying to the FBI about it.

The following month, a federal judge sentenced Petraeus to two years' probation
plus a fine of $100,000.

Trump was "inclined" to pick Petraeus, a source told Bloomberg News, despite the
security breach - though he railed against Hillary Clinton for exposing
classified material through her use of a private e-mail server as secretary of
state.

With Post Wire Services

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Contenders: David Petraeus (left), who leaked classified info to a
mistress, is in line for secretary of state, along with Rudy Giuliani and Mitt
Romney.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             633 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Trolling Trump EDITORIAL

BYLINE: EDITORIAL

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 316 words


Jill Stein's cynical push for recounts in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan
has two obvious goals: to raise more political cash, and to "troll"
President-elect Donald Trump. She's succeeding on both fronts - the interests of
the nation be damned.

It's a pander to liberal hysteria over Trump's win that will doubtless feed
conspiracy theories for years to come. (At least she left Florida out of it this
time.)

Yet no recount has any chance of even vaulting Stein past Gary Johnson into the
third-place slot. The odds are huge that the effort won't flip a single state to
Hillary Clinton, who needs all three to reverse the Electoral College result.

And if Stein really wanted Hillary to win, she shouldn't have run in the first
place: Her vote in two of the states was more than Trump's margin over Clinton.

Yet the Green presidential candidate has raised north of $7 million thanks to
the effort, far more than her campaign will have to spend on it. She's also
building a fine database of suckers for future fund appeals.

Hillary Clinton's camp, meanwhile, will help monitor the recounts - purely, it
claims, to make sure everything's clean. And never mind about her pre-election
thunder on the need to "accept . . . the outcome."

Trump, stung by the push to delegitimize his victory, couldn't resist tweeting
his outrage on Sunday - slamming Clinton for her about-face, then spouting
fiction about "millions of people who voted illegally."

Naturally, the punditry then overreacted, with claims that Trump himself was
delegitimizing the results. No: His claims undermine nothing (except his
"presidential" image) unless you figure he swept the illegal-alien vote.

Still, Trump should recognize a sideshow when he sees it - and assign some very
junior member of his communications team to mocking such idiocy. Unlike Stein
and Clinton, the president-elect has real work to do.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             634 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Surgin' general Petraeus a fave for State, despite leaks

BYLINE: Bob fredericks

SECTION: Late City Final; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 309 words


Donald Trump met Monday with ex-CIA Director David Petraeus, who is a leading
candidate for secretary of state, despite leaking secrets to a paramour during
an extramarital affair.

But Trump sounded forgiving after spending an hour with the retired four-star
Army general at Trump Tower.

"Just met with General Petraeus - was very impressed!" Trump wrote on Twitter.

And Petraeus had warm words in return as he left the meeting.

"I was with him for about an hour. He basically walked us around the world,"
said Petraeus, who earned acclaim for leading troop surges in Iraq and
Afghanistan. "Showed a great grasp of a variety of the challenges that are out
there and some of the opportunities as well. Very good conversation and we'll
see where it goes from here."

While Petraeus remained the preferred choice for secretary of state among some
prominent Republicans - including Arizona Sen. John McCain - 2012 GOP
presidential candidate Mitt Romney and Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) are still in
the running and will meet with Trump on Tuesday.

Rudy Giuliani and hawkish ex-UN Ambassador John Bolton also were being
considered.

Petraeus quit the top CIA post in November 2012 after his extramarital affair
with his biographer, Paula Broadwell, went public.

He remained under FBI investigation and kept a low profile until March 2015,
when he got a sweetheart plea deal with the feds in which he admitted to leaking
classified material to Broadwell and lying to the FBI about it.

The following month, a federal judge sentenced him to two years' probation plus
a fine of $100,000.

Trump was "inclined" to pick Petraeus, a source told Bloomberg News, despite the
security breach - though he railed against Hillary Clinton for exposing
classified material through her use of a private e-mail server as secretary of
state. With Post Wires

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             635 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Hillary's Hidden Weapon: Stein's Recount Fantasy

BYLINE:

SECTION: All Editions; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 349 words


The Issue: Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein filing for a recount in
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania.

The reason Hillary Clinton is participating in Jill Stein's recount is obvious
("The recount's Green reaper," Nov. 29).

She wants to fan the flames of discontent over her disastrous loss and make it
as hard as possible for Donald Trump to govern. Armand Rose North Arlington, NJ

I honestly don't understand why Stein is doing this. Wasn't she the same person
who drew voters away from Hillary? What did she think when she was initially
running?

Has her undergraduate degree in psychology convinced her that the people
counting votes at polling stations, or the various election judges, are all
crazy? Steven Wolosker Manhattan

I think it's amazing that our man-baby president-elect is complaining about a
recount in an election where he lost the popular vote.

After all, he's the one who was saying that the election was rigged, and I
believe him. But it was rigged in his favor.

I intend to give Trump all the respect he gave President Obama. Marc Perkel
Gilroy, Calif.

Clinton once again shows us who she really is.

She was "horrified" that her opponent wouldn't accept the results if she won the
election.

Now, however, she joins Stein's side in refusing to accept voters' selection of
Trump even after she gave her concession speech.

I can't wait for Clinton and President Obama to ride off into the sunset and let
America heal so we can move forward.  Carolyn Friedman Staten Island

I can't understand why anyone is making a big deal out of the fact that Hillary
is getting involved with the recount.

Recounts are part of our democratic tradition. For example, Al Franken won his
Senate seat after a recount, as did the former governor of Washington, Christine
Gregoire.

I've worked in politics all my adult life, and almost every time there's a
recount, the vote count changes. Election inspectors, who work long hours,
frequently make mistakes in reporting the vote totals. It's very possible for an
outcome to change.   Paul Feiner Greenburgh

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jill Stein

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             636 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Bloomy calls prez-elect

BYLINE: Daniel Halper

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 156 words


Former Mayor Mike Bloomberg, who described Donald Trump as a "dangerous
demagogue" at last summer's Democratic National Convention, spoke on the phone
with the president-elect Monday, a source confirmed to The Post.

The conversation between the two billionaires was the first since Trump's
election.

Bloomberg was a supporter of Hillary Clinton during the presidential campaign,
and delivered one of the harshest attacks against Trump at the Philadelphia
convention.

"There are times when I disagree with Hillary Clinton. But let me tell you,
whatever our disagreements may be, I've come here to say: We must put them aside
for the good of our country. And we must unite around the candidate who can
defeat a dangerous demagogue," Bloomberg said.

Trump responded on Twitter by taking a poke at the former mayor's size,
dismissing him as "little Michael Bloomberg."

Bloomberg aides declined to comment on the conversation.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             637 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

GOLD MEN After a long exile, Goldman back in power with Trump

BYLINE: JOSH KOSMAN

SECTION: Sports+Late City Final; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 486 words


They're ba-ack!

After falling out of favor in Washington, DC, in the nearly 10-year stretch
following the bursting of the housing bubble, Goldman Sachs is poised for a
remarkable comeback to the corridors of power.

The latest and most significant appointment - ex-partner Steve Mnuchin as
Treasury secretary - puts two former execs of the powerhouse bank in
President-elect Donald Trump's inner circle, poised to formulate the country's
fiscal policy.

Onetime Goldman Vice President Stephen Bannon was previously named Trump's chief
strategist.

What's more, Gary Cohn, the current No. 2 under Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein
(inset), is seen to be the top choice for budget chief, which would further
cement the bank's return to the center of the nation's financial
decision-making.

In addition, Anthony Scaramucci, one of Trump's transition advisers, cut his
teeth at Goldman.

What makes the comeback even more startling is that just over three weeks ago,
Wall Street's smart money had Hillary Clinton winning - and Goldman relegated to
the sidelines for at least another four years after spending eight years in the
desert during the Obama administration.

"This just would not have happened if Hillary was elected," said one Goldman
source, noting that she was criticized for making too much money from the bank
in paid speeches.

"Given the campaign rhetoric, [the bank's return to power] is very ironic," the
source said.

During one Republican presidential primary debate, Trump attacked both rival Ted
Cruz, whose wife was a Goldman managing director, and his future general
election opponent, Clinton, as pawns of the firm.

A company spokesman said the bank "has encouraged its employees to give back to
the community while they are working here and after they leave. We are proud
that many have gone on to serve their country."

Lawyer Richard Farley, co-author of "Wall Street Wars: The Epic Battles With
Washington that Created the Modern Financial System," said presidents often turn
to Wall Street execs for Treasury secretary because they are among the only ones
who really understand the global economy.

"I think just understanding the plumbing of the financial system, given how
complicated it is, makes it almost necessary to have someone who understands
it."

The choice of a Goldman alum for Treasury boss did not sit well with everyone.

"It's a horrid appointment," President Reagan's former Office of Management and
Budget Director David Stockman told The Post.

"We don't need another plenipotentiary from Goldman Sachs and crony capitalist
speculator who made billions off the backs of taxpayers," he said.

The last big White House appointment for Goldman occurred in 2006 when President
George W. Bush named Goldman chief Hank Paulson his Treasury secretary, while
President Clinton named Goldman co-Chair Bob Rubin to that top job in 1995.

jkosman@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President-elect Donald Trump seems to love the Goldman Sachs pedigree,
surrounding himself with: ex-partner Steve Mnuchin (second from left) as
Treasury secretary; ex-investment banker Steve Bannon (second from right) as
chief strategist; and, possibly, COO Gary Cohn (left) as budget boss. Lloyd
Blankfein. (Post photo composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             638 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                                The New York Post

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

GOLD MEN After 8-year 'exile,' Goldman back in power with Trump

BYLINE: JOSH KOSMAN

SECTION: Metro; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 473 words


They're ba-ack!

After falling out of favor in Washington, DC, in the nearly 10-year stretch
following the bursting of the housing bubble, Goldman Sachs is poised for a
remarkable comeback to the corridors of power.

After tapping former Goldman partner Steven Mnuchin to be his Treasury
secretary, President-elect Donald Trump now has two former executives of the
powerhouse bank head by Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein (right) in position to
formulate the country's fiscal policy.

Former Goldman Vice President Stephen Bannon was previously named Trump's chief
strategist.

Goldman's move back to the center of the nation's financial decision-making will
be further cemented if, as expected, current Chief Operating Officer Gary Cohn
is named Trump's budget chief.

In addition, Anthony Scaramucci, one of Trump's inner-circle transition
advisers, cut his teeth at Goldman.

What makes the Goldman Sachs comeback even more startling is that just over
three weeks ago, Wall Street's smart money had Hillary Clinton winning - and
Goldman spending at least another four years sidelined.

"This just would not have happened if Hillary was elected," said one Goldman
source, noting that she was criticized for making too much money from paid
Goldman speeches.

"Given the campaign rhetoric, [Goldman's return to power] is very ironic," the
source said.

During one Republican presidential primary debate, Trump attacked both rival Ted
Cruz, whose wife was a Goldman managing director, and his future general
election opponent, Clinton, as Goldman pawns.

A Goldman spokesman said the bank "has encouraged its employees to give back to
the community while they are working here and after they leave. We are proud
that many have gone on to serve their country."

Lawyer Richard Farley, with Kramer Levin, the author of "Wall Street Wars: The
Epic Battles With Washington that Created the Modern Financial System," said
presidents often turn to Wall Street execs for Treasury secretary because they
are among the only ones who really understand the global economy.

"I think just understanding the plumbing of the financial system, given how
complicated it is, makes it almost necessary to have someone who understands
it."

The choice of a Goldman alum for Treasury boss did not sit well with everyone.

"It's a horrid appointment," President Reagan's former Office of Management and
Budget Director David Stockman told The Post.

"We don't need another plenipotentiary from Goldman Sachs and crony capitalist
speculator who made billions off the backs of taxpayers," he said.

While President Obama did not tap Goldman execs for the key positions, President
George W. Bush named Goldman CEO Henry Paulson his Treasury secretary, and
President Clinton named Goldman co-Chair Robert Rubin to the same post.
jkosman@nypost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President-elect Donald Trump seems to love the Goldman Sachs pedigree,
surrounding himself with: ex-partner Steve Mnuchin (second from left) as
Treasury secretary; ex-investment banker Steve Bannon (second from right) as
chief strategist; and, possibly, COO Gary Cohn (left) as budget boss. Lloyd
Blankfein. (Post photo composite)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             639 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Immigration fighters optimistic about Trump

BYLINE: By GRACE WYLER, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A

LENGTH: 1097 words



HIGHLIGHT: Activists against undocumented arrivals claim victory and say they
are eager to see what's next.


For two weeks, as Americans processed Donald Trump's upset victory in the
presidential race, the banner leading the Minuteman Project's website has been
unequivocally triumphant:

"Trump Wins! Minuteman Project Mission Accomplished!"

Founded in the mid-2000s by Orange County resident Jim Gilchrist, the Minuteman
organization once was synonymous with hard-line opposition to illegal
immigration. Gilchrist and, later, others urged fellow citizens to patrol the
border to block people from crossing, even as they espoused swift expulsion of
all undocumented immigrants from the United States.

Those views once were viewed as extreme. Today, they're a key force in the rise
of Trump.

"We planted the seed in people's minds that the rule of law was at risk,"
Gilchrist said last week at a Laguna Niguel coffee bar.

"And people decided that they wanted something different."

Gilchrist's views aren't rare. Many in the anti-illegal immigration movement - a
push that has been waning in California since the mid-1990s - view Trump's
election as the culmination of a long, sometimes lonely, fight against what they
see as a crisis of unchecked immigration, both legal and illegal.

In Trump, they found a champion who made their cause the central message of his
campaign.

"When we started, I really thought that we might have a president who believed
they would enforce immigration laws, but then I began to doubt it," said Roy
Beck, executive director of NumbersUSA, a lobbying group based in Washington,
D.C., that seeks to reduce immigration levels.

"So I was shocked that Trump won; I would say that we are pleasantly surprised."


NOT CLOSE TO HOME

Trump's immigration plans - and the views of his supporters - could face stiff
resistance in Orange, Los Angeles and Riverside counties.

Hillary Clinton carried California nearly 2-1, and the state is a key reason why
she won the popular vote by, at last count, at least 1.3 million Americans.

Even Orange County, once viewed as reflexively Republican and the birthplace for
many anti-immigrant efforts, picked Clinton over Trump by 5 points.

Polls consistently show that California voters hold more liberal views on
immigration than the rest of the country, and overwhelmingly oppose the
hard-line measures proposed by Trump.

According to a USC Dornsife/Los Angeles Times survey taken in March, more than
three-quarters of California voters think immigrants already living in the U.S.
should be allowed to stay, and 65 percent think they should be given a pathway
to citizenship. The poll also showed that Californians overwhelmingly oppose a
border wall.

But some local anti-illegal immigration activists believe that could change.

Trump's victory has reinvigorated their movement, they say, and at least some
feel personally vindicated by Trump's success.

"Nobody wanted to talk about this, and nobody wanted to hear us," said Anaheim
resident Elaine Proko. "We were not politically correct."

A veteran anti-illegal immigration activist, Proko was a founding member of the
California Coalition for Immigration Reform, an Orange County-based group that
orchestrated the 1994 passage for Proposition 187, a measure that would have cut
off public services to undocumented immigrants living in the state.

"Trump is so important to us because he's doing all the things that we tried for
so long to do," Proko said.

"The whole movement is excited about it."

That excitement could spark a rise in anti-immigrant action.

Robin Hvidston, executive director of Claremont-based We the People Rising, said
Trump's rise has revived activism among those who would expel undocumented
immigrants.

Hvidston said both We The People Rising and another group she works with, The
Remembrance Project, a Texas nonprofit that "advocates for families whose loved
ones were killed by illegal aliens," have seen an uptick in membership in the
past year, as Trump campaigned nationally.

CAMPAIGN PROMISES

The next step is action, probably on both sides of the debate.

Hvidston said her organizations and others will focus on making sure Trump
follows through on his promises to ramp up deportations and crack down on
security along the U.S.-Mexico border.

She was encouraged by the president-elect's statements on "60 Minutes" on Nov.
13, in which he said his administration would prioritize deportations of
immigrants with criminal records. He estimated that 2 million to 3 million
people fall under that category.

But that goal could be tough to achieve. The Obama administration deported 2.5
million immigrants over eight years, and reduced the overall number of
undocumented immigrants in the United States. What's more, Trump described the 3
million people he wants out as "criminals."

Studies suggest about 300,000 of the estimated 11.5 million people living in the
United States illegally have felony records, a lower ratio than American
citizens.

Still, Hvidston says anti-illegal immigrant activists are already planning what
she called a "citizen lobbying push" designed to bombard Trump and members of
Congress with phone calls, emails and social media posts calling for action on
the immigration issue.

"Once he takes office, we will definitely be observing, watching to see if he
follows through," she said.

Leo Chavez, a professor of anthropology at UC Irvine who has studied
anti-illegal immigration and anti-Latino movements, said it's natural for
activists to feel emboldened by Trump's popularity.

But he questioned how much headway the movement would be able to make in a state
like California, where elected officials have resisted the federal government on
immigration before and seem poised to do it again under Trump.

"California is the first in lots of things," Chavez said.

"We were first to push the anti-immigrant rhetoric that we're now seeing in
other states like Arizona and Texas, and parts of the South. Now it seems like
we're going to be the trendsetters in the resistance to mass deportations."

AWAKE

Sitting in the Laguna Niguel Starbucks where Gilchrist spends most mornings, it
is hard to imagine that the 67-year-old retiree in a Richard-Nixon-meets-Elvis
T-shirt once commanded a band of citizen border vigilantes.

Gilchrist readily admits his group is in "hibernation," damaged by years of
infighting and by accusations of zealotry and racism by the Minuteman Project's
detractors.

Now, Gilchrist said, he is ready to cede the issue of border security back to
the government, under incoming President Trump.

"I've done what I set out to do," Gilchrist said.

"Now, I think the movement can probably stand down to see what the
president-elect will do."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             640 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

How to

BYLINE: By JEFF HORSEMAN, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A

LENGTH: 1159 words



HIGHLIGHT: ... While talking political turkey at the Thanksgiving table


"Pass the gravy. I'll have some more stuffing. Oh, and Uncle Bob, why do you
hate America?"

Such table talk might be a staple of your Thanksgiving dinner. But though
politics discussed over cranberry sauce is nothing new, this year's dinnertime
debate could be especially intense in the wake of November's divisive
presidential election.

"When it comes to politics, people get emotional because it relates to their
belief system," said Bart Rossi, a political psychologist who frequently appears
on TV news shows.

"They're not just challenging Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. It's your
personal belief system, which is serious stuff," Rossi said.

One poll shows most Americans plan to avoid political talk. Of those celebrating
Thanksgiving, 53 percent said they were not very likely or not likely at all to
discuss politics at dinner, compared with 37 percent who said they were some
what or very likely, according to a Huffington Post/YouGov survey released
Tuesday.

John Berry, a cabinet member of the Redlands Tea Party Patriots who loves to
talk politics, plans to spend Thanksgiving in Laguna Beach with his in-laws.

"Inside, I'm doing a Snoopy-like happy dance," said Berry, who describes himself
as "surrounded by liberals."

At Thanksgiving, Berry said he will bite the inside of his cheeks to keep from
gloating.

"It's kind of funny. When the liberals won in 2008, they weren't shy about
expressing their opinion," Berry added. "But if they bring it up, I'm going to
give it to them both barrels."

The chances of your turkey coming with a side of discord could rise if your
relatives are geographically scattered. This election underscored deep divisions
between different parts of the country. California went strongly for Clinton,
but Trump did better in the South and Rust Belt.

Before you lose your voice screaming at your niece about her Bernie Sanders
tattoo, here are some strategies for keeping the food and politics separate - or
at least arguing in a way that won't cause anyone to storm off.

EXPECT THE BEST

For many, just the thought of hearing a cousin talk about immigration is enough
to cause heartburn hours before the first spoonful of jalapeño-infused cheese
dip.

Kate Sweeny, a UC Riverside associate psychology professor who studies how
people cope with uncertain waiting periods, suggests distracting yourself in a
way that completely consumes you. Maybe it's video games. Or it could be
gardening or getting a head start on that work project.

Yo u could plan responses in advance, Sweeny said. For example, if your father
shows up in his "Make America Great Again" cap, say "Nice hat!" and change the
subject.

Sweeny also suggests not assuming the worst will happen. "I do think in this
sort of circumstance, expecting the best can only help you," Sweeny said. "If
you go in expecting the worst behavior, you might create a self-fulfilling
prophecy."

Thanksgiving hosts need to be prepared for how to handle political talk, said
Tim Muehlhoff, a professor of communications at Biola University. "In addition
to assessing what stuffing to make, a host couple need to assess the overall
communication climate that will envelop the day's activities," he said.

Reciting Abraham Lincoln's Thanksgiving Day proclamation from 1863 is a
Thanksgiving tradition for Huntington Beach resident Ken Gordon's family.

"It 's a good time to bring up and point out to our children how much more
faith-based our nation was," said Gordon, 52, a decline-to-state/unaffiliated
voter who said he left the Republican Party.

This Thanksgiving, Gordon also anticipates talking about the party of Lincoln.
"I think, at the time of this proclamation, (the GOP was) the party of the
disenfranchised," he said. "I would not say that any longer."

LOCKER ROOM RULE

An easy way to avoid a yam-fueled shouting match over Trump's tax policy is to
make clear ahead of time that there's no space at the table for a family edition
of CNN's "Crossfire."

Bill Southworth, a professor of speech and debate history at the University of
Redlands, recommends a "locker room" edict.

"There are two subjects never to be discussed in the locker room - politics and
religion," he said. "All family gatherings (especially those with split voters)
should agree not to mention Clinton or Trump or anything about the election. ...
If violated, the offending party should leave or the guest should feel free to
depart."

Rossi, the political psychologist, suggests taking the blame for a moratorium.
"(Say,) 'I've been especially involved (with this election). At this point in
time, I could use a day to relax and eat some turkey,' " he said.

Y ou also can limit your political discussions to those with like-minded
viewpoints. "This way, you will find yourself talking to family and friends who
support your feelings and perspective," said David Kaplan, a family counselor
and chief professional officer of the American Counseling Association.

"Given the divisiveness of the recent election, trying to vent to someone who
voted for the candidate you opposed or to change their perspective is just going
to make you feel worse."

HOW TO ARGUE

Avoidance and positivity have failed. Now your sister-in-law demands to know why
you voted for "Crooked Hillary."

First, swallow the green beans. Then, rather than call her stupid, say " 'I'm on
the other side and here's why,' " Rossi said. "Highlight as succinctly as
possible why you feel this way.

"You're not arguing to win the argument or change somebody else's personality.
You're just trying to get your point in and move on."

Listening also is important, Rossi said. "Be able to say back to the person what
they said. You can say, 'I heard you and you said this. This is why I'm on the
other side of it.' "

You also could point out why you disagree even though you stand to benefit from
the election's outcome, Rossi said.

"Let's suppose you don't really like Donald Trump ... but let's say you get a
really big tax advantage" with his election, he said. "You could say, 'I
actually stand to gain in some ways. However, I'm really on the other side of
everything he stands for.' Or vice versa with Hillary Clinton."

Other tips suggested by Samuel Gladding, a professor of counseling at Wake
Forest University in North Carolina, include:

Designating a "no politics" zone in the house.

Appointing a referee to call time out or "throw a flag on the play if someone
tries to steer conversation toward conflict."

Focusing on the food, humor and what you're thankful for.

Steven Smith, 29, of Riverside, who said he was "very disappointed" with the
election results, plans to host a family Thanksgiving.

"I think once Thanksgiving comes, people will come to a realization that Trump
will be our president and they will try to normalize/rationalize the situation
in order to cope," he said. "If anything, I want to take this day to be positive
and remember why we are eating (and) remember the reasons to be thankful and
hopeful for the future."



jhorseman@scng.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JEFF Goertzen, STAFF

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             641 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

How can wind and solar win over Trump?

BYLINE: By DAVID DANELSKI, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A

LENGTH: 971 words



HIGHLIGHT: Alternative energy proponents hope stressing jobs and economic growth
will bring the president-elect on board.


Wind and solar power proponents hope to appeal to Republican President-elect
Donald Trump's desire for economic growth to persuade him to support their
industries.

They hope to counter some of what Trump said about wind and solar energy during
his presidential campaign. President Barack Obama, a Democrat, promoted
alternative energy development as a way to counter global warming.

But Trump has called global warming a hoax invented by the Chinese - despite
scientific consensus that the problem is real.

In a radio interview with conservative activist Herman Cain last month, Trump
said: "Solar is very, very expensive. Wind is very, very expensive, and it only
works when it's windy."

He also said Riverside County's San Gorgonio Pass area "looks like a junkyard"
because of aging wind farms. "It's the worst thing you've ever seen," he said.

Trump also vowed to slash environmental regulations to bolster the oil, gas and
coal industries.

Yet alternative energy experts, along with local and state officials, said they
don't expect to see a slowdown of residential or commercial solar energy
development in California.

The industry has too much momentum to be slowed by a cold shoulder from the
White House, they said.

Trump's rhetoric is cloudy. In the interview with Cain, the president-elect left
the door open to more wind and solar development by adding: "I'm not saying I'm
against those things. I'm for everything. I'm for everything."

Tim Clark, Trump's California campaign director, referred questions about
Trump's energy policy to his transition team. The team's website asks that press
inquiries be sent by email. No one on the team responded to an inquiry for this
report.

Jack Pitney, a professor of politics at Claremont McKenna College, said clean
energy probably will do fine if Trump can be convinced of its economic
viability.

"He is a climate skeptic, so I wouldn't emphasize climate change," Pitney said.
"If I am a lobbyist for the solar industry, I would say this is an effective
form of energy and people can make a lot of money selling it, and he'd be OK
with it."

Two days after the election, about 70 energy, state and local officials gathered
in the desert near Blythe to celebrate the opening of two neighboring solar
plants.

The McCoy and Blythe facilities blanket more than 6 square miles of federal land
in eastern Riverside County and create enough electricity for about 181,000
households.

The new projects exemplify a maturing industry still on the upswing.

Like several other large-scale solar projects, they were built on federal land
with federal tax credits that covered 30 percent of the $1.2 billion development
cost.

In a deal approved by Congress last year that also helped the oil industry,
those credits for solar will stay at 30 percent through 2019. They'll be phased
down to 10 percent by 2022.

Scott Busa, executive director of development for NextEra Energy, said these
credits, plus already obtained land-use entitlements from the federal Bureau of
Land Management, will allow for the Blythe and McCoy projects to expand in the
coming years and more than double energy output.

"We are only about halfway there, and we look forward to future expansion," he
said.

Ka ren Douglas, a member of the California Energy Commission, also was at the
Nov. 10 ceremony in the desert. She said policies may shift in Washington, but
California's commitment to clean energy that began in the 1970s is unwavering.

"This is going to continue," said Douglas, standing by a sea of solar panels
extending deep into the desert landscape.

California, she said, must meet its own clean energy mandates, which require
that half the state's electricity come from carbon-free sources, such as solar,
wind and geothermal facilities.

I ndustry officials are confident Trump will see the economic benefits that they
say make clean energy competitive with coal, oil and natural gas.

Greg Wetstone, president and chief executive of the American Council on
Renewable Energy, said demand for solar and other forms of alternative energy is
increasing as the costs are coming down.

The organization estimates that the renewable energy industry attracts $44
billion a year in investments, creating thousand of jobs.

"We are looking at continued growth and investment," Wetstone said.

Dan Whitten, a spokesman for the Solar Energy Industries Association, said
proponents should appeal to Trump's call for jobs and energy security. Doing
that could help the solar industry thrive during his administration.

"We don't see where he has a motive to stop this train from rolling forward,"
Whitten said.

Riverside County Supervisor John Benoit said he hopes eastern Riverside County
will continue to ben efit from solar development. His district includes the
nation's largest solar development zone on public land.

The zone runs along the I-10 corridor between Desert Center and Blythe.

But Benoit remains concerned about Trump's knowledge of alternative energy,
saying much of the president-elect's rhetoric is "in serious error."

For instance, in the Cain interview, Trump said that "thousands of birds are
lying on the ground" near Palm Springs wind farms. And he said that wind farms
kill eagles "by the hundreds."

Wind turbines do kill birds - but not on the scale described by Trump.

A 2013 report by U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service officials documented 85 eagle
deaths (six bald eagles and 79 golden eagles) at 32 wind farms in 10 states that
occurred from 1997 to 2012.

Th e number may be higher because coyotes and other scavengers may remove the
carcasses before they are found, wild life officials have sa id.

Still, wind and solar development creates jobs and has "zero impact on air
quality," said Benoit, a Republican. "I would hope that his rhetoric will be
tempered by business realities."



951-368-9471 or ddanelski@scng.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             642 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

UC states policy on immigrants

BYLINE: By ROXANA KOPETMAN, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B

LENGTH: 495 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rights and privacy of the undocumented will be protected, system
says.


Campus police departments will not cooperate with law enforcement agencies
looking to arrest those who have broken federal immigration laws, the University
of California system announced Wednesday in response to President-elect Donald
Trump's pledge to ramp up deportations.

UC's 10 campuses will protect the privacy and civil rights of undocumented
students and will continue to welcome and support students, regardless of
immigration status.

In the statement of its policy regarding undocumented immigrants, the UC system
also said its hospitals, which serve the public, will "vigorously enforce
university nondiscrimination and privacy policies" in treating patients.

"While we still do not know what policies and practices the incoming federal
administration may adopt, given the many public pronouncements made during the
presidential campaign and its aftermath, we felt it necessary to reaffirm that
UC will act upon its deeply held conviction that all members of our community
have the right to work, study and live safely and without fear at all UC
locations," UC President Janet Napolitano said in a release.

Anita Casavantes Bradford, who heads UC Irvine's Committee on Equity and
Inclusion for Undocumented Students, said she was reassured by Napolitano's
statement.

"They are among our most talented, motivated and engaged students," she said.
"They are an important asset to our university and our communities, and I'm glad
that President Napolitano has shown, through her principled statement and
actions, that she also recognizes the contributions that undocumented young
people and their families make to our state."

Across the country, a wave of campus protests and petitions are calling for
sanctuary campuses and the protection of students brought to the country
illegally as children. Trump has pledged to abolish a program created by
President Barack Obama that offers those students temporary legal residence and
a work permit. Napolitano signed the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals,
known as DACA, in 2012 as secretary of the Department of Homeland Security.

Those who oppose illegal immigration were not pleased to hear of the UC system's
stand.

"It's radical and leftist policies like this UC announcement that caused voters
to reject the Democrats on Nov. 8 and put Trump into the White House," said John
Berry of the Redlands Tea Party Patriots. "Students here illegally should be
deported. ... Those classroom seats should be saved for people in the U.S.
legally."

Karthick Ramakrishnan, a UC Riverside public policy professor, said the UC
system's statement giving specifics on what it will not do is stronger than
calling campuses a sanctuary - a concept, he said, that can be interpreted
various ways.

"What's interesting in this moment," Ramakrishnan said, "is that universities
are taking a moral stand about what is important in terms of the educational
mission and their duties of providing to students regardless of their
immigration status."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE:  Story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Orange County Register
                              All Rights Reserved


                             643 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Dems should resist urge to go farther left

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 651 words


Democrats are afraid, and not just of President-elect Donald Trump.

After years spent preparing for a Clinton presidency under the illusion that
culture war politics conquered all, they now fear that Republicans - who control
32 state legislatures and counting - will act as if their only opposition clings
to a strip of coastline along the Atlantic and the Pacific. But in the Golden
State, where Democrats reign supreme, a parallel universe is setting in. Rather
than moderating their rule to encourage Republicans nationwide to seek common
ground, California Democrats want to make their state more of a leftist utopia
than ever.

This is a mistake. California provides Democrats with a badly needed safe space
to show they can govern without being captive to the culturally revolutionary
vanguard that has pushed so many voters into the arms of Trump's GOP.

If Democrats want to make a credible case that Republicans should exercise
magnanimity and restraint over the next four years as they set a national policy
agenda, they should refocus on a broadly appealing agenda that pays heed to
California's dwindling middle class and its pinched working class. The
old-fashioned circumspection of Gov. Jerry Brown should be more of a model going
forward than the cutting-edge, aggressive progressivism of Gavin Newsom or
Kamala Harris.

Certainly, California is already one of the most socially liberal states in the
union. But, as its many libertarians can attest, the accommodating and
permissive spirit that has worked best for California has largely been an
organic one, rising up from residents' progressively shifting habits and mores.
Meanwhile, enforced, top-down "liberalism" has mostly sown intractable conflict,
squandering valuable time and energy on matters that hardly bear on the basic
hallmarks of successful governance: a robust economy, judicious lawmaking and a
society with a healthy, stable middle tier of producers, consumers and
neighbors. Democrats should have anticipated the disappointments of a rainbow
coalition built around an identity politics of grievance, even if, in
California's parallel universe, rose-colored glasses made it difficult.

But recent news reports have revealed that one leading Democrat did push for a
different approach - Bill Clinton, the man responsible for his party's return
from narrow margins in national politics after three consecutive Republican
administrations. Clinton "repeatedly pushed his wife's campaign to do more
outreach to economically distressed white communities by prioritizing her
populist economic message," as Vanity Fair has noted. "But her advisors refused,
believing that Hillary would do better by appealing to minorities and
college-educated suburban voters."

He begged in vain for his wife to accept an invitation to address a St.
Patrick's Day event at the University of Notre Dame. "But Mrs. Clinton's
campaign refused, explaining to the organizers that white Catholics were not the
audience she needed to spend time reaching out to," the New York Times recently
reported.

White, working-class voters who broke for Obama flipped to Trump and the GOP
across the Rust Belt, deciding the election.

Democrats who want to regain the trust of those Obama voters have much work to
do in the Midwest states that turned against them this year. But the real proof
of a party-wide rethink will have to come from the deepest blue states, and no
blue state is more Democratic than California.

Gov. Brown has hardly governed as a bloodless centrist, but he has consistently
curbed some of his party's least productive adventures in utopianism and
identity politics. Although California's rising generation of leading Democrats
often seem to think of an archliberal agenda as not just their prerogative, but
rather their destiny, if they fail to reckon with the wisdom of an earlier
political age, soon they'll really have something to worry about.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             644 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

By accident, media helped Trump

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 627 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

A lot of people were shocked by the result of the presidential election, but I
think it's safe to say the only people more stunned than Hillary Clinton and her
supporters were the news media. And by the media, I mean all of them.

It didn't matter which network you were watching, as each anchor called the
election for Donald Trump they all had the same expression of complete and total
bewilderment on their faces. The only thing I can compare it to is the look that
attorney Robert Kardashian had on his kisser when the jury foreman read the O.J.
Simpson verdict.

The conventional wisdom was that since Trump was hit with the kitchen sink on a
daily basis, there was no way he could cobble together the necessary 270
electoral votes to win the election.

But he did.

And I actually think the media's palpable disdain for the Manhattan billionaire
ended up helping him with the American people.

Never before has there been an election where the news media so overtly picked a
side. This was true across all platforms - broadcast, entertainment and print -
almost everybody in my profession wanted Hillary to win.

Writing in Time magazine, Univision and Fusion anchor Jorge Ramos insisted, "It
doesn't matter who you are - a journalist, a politician or a voter - we'll all
be judged by how we responded to Donald Trump. Like it or not, this election is
a plebiscite on the most divisive, polarizing and disrupting figure in American
politics in decades. And neutrality is not an option."

And then Ramos went even further, saying, "Trump has forced journalists to
revisit rules of objectivity and fairness. Just providing both points of view is
not enough in the current presidential campaign. If a candidate is making racist
and sexist remarks, we cannot hide in the principle of neutrality. That's a
false equivalence."

Ramos' remarks were celebrated by his peers.

The Philadelphia Enquirer went so far as to editorialize, "You call Jorge Ramos
'an advocacy journalist'? If so, America needs 10,000 more like him."

On "The Tonight Show,' host Jimmy Fallon invited Trump on as a guest and treated
him the same way he would treat any other political candidate. As a result, he
was excoriated.

Jo Miller, an executive producer of "Full Frontal with Samantha Bee" on TBS,
said in an interview with The New York Times that seeing Fallon's interview of
Trump "was a punch in the gut."

Miller explained, "This is not a race between Democrat and Republican - this is
a race between Democrat and demagogue. You don't normalize someone who's
inciting violence."

And then you have the Huffington Post, which decided to print all of its
Trump-related news in the 'entertainment' section of the website along with the
outrageous editors note, "Donald Trump regularly incites political violence and
is a serial liar, rampant xenophobe, racist, misogynist and birther who has
repeatedly pledged to ban all Muslims - 1.6 billion members of an entire
religion - from entering the U.S."

In response to this blanket side-picking, most Americans just decided to tune
the media out - because they knew they weren't honest brokers.

Whenever a news outlet would unveil yet another hit piece on Trump, it would
largely fall on deaf ears instead of having an impact on the race.

A week and change after the election, two things are clear - the media have lost
their influence over the electorate, and it helped Donald Trump.

If they want to get their good name back, and recapture the attention of half of
America, there's only one way to do it - go back to playing it straight.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             645 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Leaders set to stress job growth to Trump

BYLINE: David Danelski; ddanelski@scng.com

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053 words

ABSTRACT

LDN-L-ELX-ENERGY | From PE; will place in SAXO | The nation, especially Southern
California, has pushed hard for alternative fuels, powered by President Obama's
alluring financial incentives by a shift to the right in DC? The state,
encouraged by Gov. Brown, crafted some of the nation's toughest air-quality
standards while private companies took advantage of incentives to build mammoth
solar plants in the desert? Will a different White House agenda that promises to
embrace more traditional fossil fuels set a new tone? Danelski-Bender 30" File
photos, graphic of desert power plants (stunning PE art of desert power plants)
ETA: Thursday 6 pm

FULL TEXT

Wind and solar power proponents hope to appeal to Republican President-elect
Donald Trump's desire for economic growth to persuade him to support their
industries.

Their business means jobs, they say, and the president-elect promised lots of
new jobs.

"We are looking at continued growth and investment," said Greg Wetstone,
president and CEO of the American Council on Renewable Energy.

The green-power business is riding on an unprecedented wave, powered largely by
President Barack Obama, who promoted alternative energy development as a way to
counter global warming. And he matched his enthusiasm with lucrative financial
incentives.

At the crest of that wave, alt-energy leaders hope to counter some of what Trump
said about wind

and solar energy during his presidential campaign and define their business as a
proven brand of economic development.

On the campaign trail, Trump called global warming a hoax invented by the
Chinese, despite much scientific consensus that supports the threat.

In a radio interview with conservative activist Herman Cain last month, Trump
said: "Solar is very, very expensive. Wind is very, very expensive, and it only
works when it's windy." He also said that Riverside County's San Gorgonio Pass
area "looks like a junkyard" because of aging wind farms. "It's the worst thing
you've ever seen."

Trump also vowed to slash environmental regulations to bolster the oil, gas and
coal industries.

But Trump has yet to speak about energy since the election and has appeared
responsive to advice from Obama and others.

Once in the White House, he'll face growing international consensus on climate
change. At the ongoing United Nations climate talks in Marrakech, conference
chair Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco offered: "Our message to the new American
president is simply to say, 'We count on your pragmatism and your spirit of
commitment.' "

Trump's own stance isn't yet clear. In the same interview with Cain, the
president-elect left the door open to more wind and solar development by adding:
"I'm not saying I'm against those things. I'm for everything. I'm for
everything."

Alternative energy experts, along with local and state officials, said they
don't expect to see a slowdown of residential or commercial solar energy
development in California.

Tim Clark, Trump's California campaign state director, referred questions about
Trump's energy policy to the president-elect's transition team. The team's web
page asks that press inquiries be sent by email. No one on the team responded to
an inquiry for this report.

Jack Pitney, a professor of politics at Claremont McKenna College, said clean
energy probably will do fine if Trump can be convinced of its economic
viability.

"He is a climate skeptic, so I wouldn't emphasize climate change," Pitney said.
"If I am a lobbyist for the solar industry, I would say this is an effective
form of energy and people can make a lot of money selling it, and he'd be OK
with it."

Two days after the election, about 70 energy, state and local officials gathered
in the desert near Blythe to celebrate the opening of two neighboring solar
plants. The McCoy and Blythe facilities blanket more than 6 square miles of
federal land in eastern Riverside County and create enough electricity for about
181,000 households.

The new projects exemplify a maturing industry still on the upswing.

Like several other large-scale solar projects, they were built on federal land
with federal tax credits that covered 30 percent of the $1.2 billion development
cost.

In a deal approved by Congress last year that also helped the oil industry,
those credits for solar will stay at 30 percent through 2019. They'll be phased
down to 10 percent by 2022.

Scott Busa, executive director of development for NextEra Energy, said these
credits, plus already obtained land-use entitlements from the federal Bureau of
Land Management, will allow for the Blythe and McCoy projects to expand in the
coming years and more than double energy output.

"We are only about halfway there, and we look forward to future expansion," he
said.

Karen Douglas, a member of the California Energy Commission, also was at the
Nov. 10 ceremony in the desert. She said policies may shift in Washington, but
California's commitment to clean energy that began in the 1970s is unwavering.

"This is going to continue," said Douglas, standing by a sea of solar panels
extending deep into the desert landscape.

California, she said, must meet its own clean energy mandates, which require
that 50 percent of the state's electricity come from carbon-free sources, such
as solar, wind and geothermal facilities.

Industry officials are confident that Trump will see the economic benefits that
they say make clean energy competitive with coal, oil, and natural gas.

Wetstone said that demand for solar and other forms of alternative energy is
increasing as the costs are coming down.

The organization estimates that the renewable energy industry attracts about $44
billion a year in investments, creating thousand of jobs.

Dan Whitten, a spokesman for the Solar Energy Industries Association, said
proponents should appeal to Trump's call for jobs and energy security. Doing
that could help the solar industry thrive during his administration.

"We don't see where he has a motive to stop this train from rolling forward,"
Whitten said.

Riverside County Supervisor John Benoit said he hopes eastern Riverside County
will continue to benefit from solar development. His district includes the
nation's largest solar development zone on public land.

The zone runs along the I-10 corridor between Desert Center and Blythe.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             646 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Get ready for a new voting system debuting in 2018

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 713 words



If you voted this fall in a neighborhood garage or the clubhouse of a park or a
school auditorium, remember the experience well. It may not be repeated anytime
soon. If you saw American flags flying at your precinct polling place, that
sight may also disappear.

A whole new election system is about to begin in California, complete with "vote
centers" and a big expansion of early balloting. The new system will start
phasing in in 2018 in 14 counties and should be operative by 2020 everywhere in
the state.

One thing is for sure: Losing candidates and those who expect to lose will have
new fodder for the "rigged election" cry taken up so vocally this fall by
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. With more mail-in ballots
involved than ever before, same-day voter registration and personnel in place to
provide language assistance, charges of fraud will be common at least while the
new system is being broken in.

The hope behind the new system, pushed hard by Democratic Secretary of State
Alex Padilla and signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown, is to increase voter
turnout drastically.

After low turnout disappointed officials in 2014 and the off-year elections of
2013 and 2015, they began casting about for changes. The new system will deliver
mail-in ballots to every registered voter in the 28 days before the actual
Election Day, aiming to end any need to vote in a single place on just one day.

"We've got to ... implement a new voting model," said Democratic state Sen. Ben
Allen of Santa Monica, who sponsored the new system in the Legislature. "Our
current system has failed, as our voter turnout rates continued to decline
toward record lows."

Turnout in both the 2014 primary (25 percent of registered voters) and that
year's November general election (42 percent) was at record lows, making Padilla
and the Legislature a bit desperate to push numbers up.

So instead of voters needing to sign up to receive mail-in ballots for every
election, from now on they will go to everyone automatically. Never mind the
tradition of the secret ballot; everyone from labor unions to employers to
neighborhood groups is now free to hold ballot-marking parties before Election
Day. This has actually been true since mail-in voting became common in the late
1970s, and there have never been charges it led to mass fraud or coerced voting
for particular candidates or causes. But such outcries may arise now.

The guinea pigs for the new system will be voters in Calaveras, Inyo, Madera,
Napa, Nevada, Orange, Sacramento, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Shasta, Sierra, Sutter and Tuolumne counties, with in-person voting at centers
spotted around each county weeks before Election Day. Voters also will be able
to drop off ballots at those centers, rather than mailing them in.

Counties pushed for this, partly as a cost-cutting measure. The fewer polling
places, the lower the cost of an election. But counties moving to the new system
will all have to adopt detailed plans through a system involving public hearings
and input. Community groups, advocates for the disabled and other individuals
all will be able to express preferences for vote center locations. But expect
them to be placed in public buildings where there's either no rent or low rent.

The politicians behind this system claim it will provide far greater flexibility
than long-standing precinct polling places. "It's time to modernize the voting
process," said Democratic state Sen. Robert Hertzberg of Van Nuys, a co-sponsor.
"We need to provide the same convenience and flexibility (people) have in other
areas of their lives. You can stream a movie or deposit a check with your phone
any time, but without this (change), people still have to arrange their busy
schedules to get to a polling place on a single day and that has hurt turnout."

Only time will tell whether all this actually spurs more people to vote. And no
one knows whether the inevitable charges of fraud or vote-fixing will have any
merit. But the people behind the change are certainly correct about one thing:
Turnout had become far too low in recent years, often allowing a small minority
of eligible voters to choose the people who make key decisions for everyone.

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             647 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Court gives taxi competition a green light

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Tuesday editorial on taxi regulations

FULL TEXT

While everyone was preoccupied with the impending elections, and particularly
the presidential race, a federal appeals court quietly issued a pair of rulings
upholding deregulation in the taxi and ridesharing market.

The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals issued two separate rulings last month
affirming decisions that reforms opening up taxi markets to greater competition
in Chicago and Milwaukee did not violate the rights of entrenched taxi
interests. The Chicago case concerned the city's decision to allow ridesharing
services such as Uber and Lyft to operate. In the Milwaukee case, the largest
taxicab operator in the city sued after the city removed the cap on taxi
medallions, which significantly reduced the artificially inflated resale value
of the medallions.

Judge Richard Posner did not mince words in the court's Milwaukee decision: "The
plaintiffs' contention that the increased number of permits has taken property
away from the plaintiffs without compensation, in violation of the
constitutional protection of property, borders on the absurd. Property can take
a variety of forms, some of them intangible, such as patents. But a taxi permit
confers only a right to operate a taxicab (a right which, in Milwaukee, may be
sold). It does not create a right to be an oligopolist, and thus confers no
right to exclude others from operating taxis."

The decisions were hailed by the Institute for Justice, a libertarian
public-interest law firm that represented drivers and entrepreneurs in both
cases, and which also has won legal victories against taxi regulations in
Denver, Minneapolis and Bowling Green, Ohio.

"These cases clear the way for transportation freedom across the country," the
institute's Senior Attorney Anthony Sanders said in a statement. "For too long,
cities across the country have embraced an outdated mode of transportation
regulation that says competition is to be feared and that freedom for taxi
drivers or other transportation entrepreneurs is unthinkable. Today's rulings
confirm that there is absolutely no legal barrier to other cities' joining the
rising wave of cities embracing transportation freedom."

Ridesharing services have sparked a flurry of regulatory activity, both for
better and for worse. Initially, governments rushed to impose regulations on the
renegade disrupters, particularly in large cities with powerful traditional taxi
interests. But, as consumers have increasingly rendered their verdict in favor
of ridesharers, and the inevitability of the success of the new business model
has set in, there has been a backlash wave of deregulation - for both
ridesharing companies and taxis.

San Diego followed Milwaukee's lead, lifting its cap on taxi permits two years
ago, and cities across the nation - from Portland, Oregon, to Salt Lake City to
Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, to Sarasota, Florida - have deregulated in recent
years.

This is a great victory for entrepreneurs looking to make a living and
consumers, who benefit from the increased competition in the form of lower
prices and better service. Now, if only occupational licensing laws and other
regulatory and protectionist barriers could be brought down in equal measure and
fervor in other industries.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             648 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Today in history

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words

ABSTRACT

Hist 11-22

FULL TEXT

1718

English pirate Edward Teach - better-known as "Blackbeard" - was killed during a
battle off present-day North Carolina.

1914

The First Battle of Ypres during World War I ended with an Allied victory
against Germany.

1963

John F. Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States, was shot to death
during a motorcade in Dallas; Texas Gov. John B. Connally, riding in the same
car as Kennedy, was seriously wounded; suspected gunman Lee Harvey Oswald was
arrested.

1955

Comic Shemp Howard of "Three Stooges" fame died in Hollywood at age 60.

1965

The musical "Man of La Mancha" opened on Broadway. Singer-songwriter Bob Dylan
married Sara Lownds (the marriage lasted 12 years).

1975

Juan Carlos was proclaimed King of Spain.

1989

Rene Mouawad was killed by a bomb after serving 17 days as president of Lebanon.

1990

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, having failed to win re-election of
the Conservative Party leadership on the first ballot, announced she would
resign.

2006

A chemical factory explosion in Danvers, Massachusetts, destroyed the
surrounding neighborhood but caused no deaths or serious injuries.

2011

Baseball players and owners signed an agreement for a new labor contract, a deal
making baseball the first North American professional major league to start
blood testing on human growth hormone and expanding the playoffs to 10 teams by
2013. Ryan Braun was voted the NL MVP after helping the Milwaukee Brewers win
their first division title in nearly 30 years. Death claimed France's former
first lady Danielle Mitterrand at age 87 and Svetlana Alliluyeva, daughter of
Soviet dictator Josef Stalin, at age 85. Soldier-turned-soap opera star J.R.
Martinez and his professional partner, Karina Smirnoff, were named champions of
season 13 of ABC's "Dancing with the Stars."

2015

Trying to reassure a nation on edge, President Barack Obama said in Malaysia
that the Islamic State group "cannot strike a mortal blow" against the U.S., and
he warned that overreacting to the Paris attacks would play into extremists'
hands. Opposition candidate Mauricio Macri won Argentina's presidential
election, marking an end to the left-leaning era of President Cristina
Fernandez. Former South Korean President Kim Young-sam, 87, who led the
country's transition to democracy, died in Seoul. Actress and artist Adele
Morales Mailer, 90, died in New York. Novak Djokovic won his fourth straight
title at the season-ending ATP finals by beating six-time champion Roger Federer
6-3, 6-4. Kyle Busch won his first career Sprint Cup title claiming the season
finale at Homestead-Miami Speedway. One Direction won artist of the year at the
American Music Awards.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             649 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Serve food, not feud;
How to remain civil while talking political turkey this Thanksgiving

BYLINE: Jeff Horseman; jhorseman@scng.com @JeffHorseman on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1268 words

ABSTRACT

PE_R_POLITURKEY_1123 | Thanksgiving is a time for feasting, family get-togethers
and the inevitable dinner table screaming match between your arch-conservative
uncle and his ultra-liberal niece. With Donald Trump's election provoking strong
reactions, this Thanksgiving's politics talk could be even more intense. We talk
with experts to see if there's any way to make these debates more civil and
perhaps give liberals and conservatives resources to find talking points.
Reporter/Editor: Horseman/Bender Length: 33 Art: TK ETA: 5 p.m. Tuesday

FULL TEXT

"Pass the gravy. I'll have some more stuffing. Oh, and Uncle Bob, why do you
hate America?"

Such table talk might be a staple of your Thanksgiving dinner. But while
politics discussed over cranberry sauce is nothing new, this year's dinnertime
debate could be especially intense in the wake of November's divisive
presidential election.

"When it comes to politics, people get emotional because it relates to their
belief system," said Bart Rossi, a political psychologist who frequently appears
on TV news shows.

"They're not just challenging Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. It's your
personal belief system, which is serious stuff."

John Berry, a cabinet member of the Redlands Tea Party Patriots who loves to
talk politics, plans to spend Thanksgiving in Laguna Beach with his in-laws.

"Inside, I'm doing a Snoopy-like happy dance," said Berry, who describes himself
as "surrounded by liberals."

At Thanksgiving, Berry said he will bite the inside of his cheeks to keep from
gloating.

"It's kind of funny. When the liberals won in 2008, they weren't shy about
expressing their opinion," Berry added. "But if they bring it up, I'm going to
give it to them both barrels."

The chances of your turkey coming with a side of discord could rise if your
relatives are geographically scattered. This election underscored deep divisions
between different parts of the country. California went strongly for Hillary
Clinton, but Donald Trump did better in the South and Rust Belt.

Before you lose your voice screaming at your niece about her Bernie Sanders
tattoo, here are some strategies for keeping the food and politics separate - or
at least arguing in a way that won't cause anyone to storm off.

Expect the best

For many, just the thought of hearing Cousin Mike talk about immigration is
enough to cause heartburn hours before the first spoonful of Aunt Jane's
jalapeno-infused cheese dip.

Kate Sweeny, a UC Riverside associate psychology professor who studies how
people cope with uncertain waiting periods, suggests distracting yourself in a
way that completely consumes you. Maybe it's

video games. Or it could be gardening or getting a head start on that work
project.

You could plan responses in advance, Sweeny said. For example, if your father
shows up in his "Make America Great Again" hat, say "Nice hat!" and change the
subject.

Sweeny also suggests not assuming the worst will happen. "I do think in this
sort of circumstance, expecting the best can only help you," Sweeny said. "If
you go in expecting the worst behavior, you might create a self-fulfilling
prophecy."

Thanksgiving hosts need to be prepared for how to handle political talk, said
Tim Muehlhoff, a professor of communications at Biola University in La Mirada.
"In addition to assessing what stuffing to make, a host couple needs to assess
the overall communication climate that will envelop the day's activities," he
said.

Reciting Abraham Lincoln's Thanksgiving Day proclamation from 1863 is a
Thanksgiving tradition for Huntington Beach resident Ken Gordon's family.

"It's a good time to bring up and point out to our children how much more
faith-based our nation was," said Gordon, 52, a decline-to-state/unaffiliated
voter who said he left the Republican Party.

This Thanksgiving, Gordon also anticipates talking about the party of Lincoln.
"I think, at the time of this proclamation, (the GOP was) the party of the
disenfranchised," he said. "I would not say that any longer."

Locker room talk

An easy way to avoid a yam-fueled shouting match over Trump's tax policy is to
make clear ahead of time that there's no space on the table for a family edition
of CNN's "Crossfire."

Bill Southworth, a professor of speech and debate history at the University of
Redlands, recommends a "locker room" edict.

"There are two subjects never to be discussed in the locker room - politics and
religion," he said. "All family gatherings (especially those with split voters)
should agree not to mention Clinton or Trump or anything about the election. ...
If violated, the offending party should leave or the guest should feel free to
depart."

Rossi, the political psychologist, suggests taking the blame for a moratorium.
"(Say) 'I've been especially involved (with this election). At this point in
time, I could use a day to relax and eat some turkey,' " he said.

You also can limit your political discussions to those with like-minded
viewpoints. "This way, you will find yourself talking to family and friends who
support your feelings and perspective," said David Kaplan, a family counselor
and chief professional officer of the American Counseling Association.

"Given the divisiveness of the recent election, trying to vent to someone who
voted for the candidate you opposed or to change their perspective is just going
to make you feel worse."

Radine Hiers, a Moreno Valley Democrat, said she won't be inviting any family
members "who disregarded the rights of any Americans."

"Never have I ever limited differing political views from my life. I really like
political debate," she said. "They could have voted for any other candidate. But
when they crossed into the very apparent and blatantly exposed racism ... (it)
is a line I will no longer accept."

How to argue

Avoidance and positivity have failed. Now, your sister-in-law demands to know
why you voted for Crooked Hillary.

First, swallow the green beans. Then, rather than call her stupid, "(Say) 'I'm
on the other side and here's why,' " Rossi said. "Highlight as succinctly as
possible why you feel this way.

"You're not arguing to win the argument or change somebody else's personality.
You're just trying to get your point in and move on."

Listening also is important, Rossi said. "Be able to say back to the person what
they said. You can say 'I heard you and you said this. This is why I'm on the
other side of it.' "

You also could point out why you disagree even though you stand to benefit from
the election's outcome, Rossi said.

"Let's suppose you don't really like Donald Trump ... but let's say you get a
really big tax advantage (with his election)," he said. "You could say 'I
actually stand to gain in some ways. However, I'm really on the other side of
everything he stands for.' Or vice versa with Hillary Clinton."

Other tips suggested by Samuel Gladding, a professor of counseling at Wake
Forest University in North Carolina, include:

o Designating a "no politics" zone in the house.

o Appointing a referee to call time out or "throw a flag on the play if someone
tries to steer conversation toward conflict."

o Focusing on the food, humor and what you're thankful for.

Steven Smith, 29, of Riverside, who said he was "very disappointed" with the
election results, plans to host a family Thanksgiving.

"I think once Thanksgiving comes, people will come to a realization that Trump
will be our president and they will try to normalize/rationalize the situation
in order to cope," he said. "If anything, I want to take this day to be positive
and remember why we are eating (and) remember the reasons to be thankful and
hopeful for the future."


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             650 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Trump selects two women to Cabinet for U.N., education posts

BYLINE: Julie Bykowicz and Steve Peoples; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

ABSTRACT

President-elect Donald Trump has chosen two women for his Cabinet-in-waiting:
South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations and prominent charter school advocate Betsy DeVos as his secretary of
education

FULL TEXT

PALM BEACH, Fla. >> Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald
Trump selected two Republican women on Wednesday who disparaged him during the
presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate Betsy DeVos to lead
the federal Department of Education.

Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet Trump praised her as "a proven
dealmaker." DeVos, like Trump, is new to government but has spent decades
working to change America's system of public education.

DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts
as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is
the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minority
selection after a string of announcements of white men.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role, which would make him the first black choice - presumably as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development - but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it
over the Thanksgiving holiday.

"I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our
inner cities great for everyone," Carson wrote on his Facebook page.

Wednesday's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the "alt-right,"
a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election.

He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with
family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving. He's
spending the holiday there after a week of interviews of potential appointees in
New York, punctuated by announcements of members of his national security team.

Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections was evident through much
of this year's campaign.

"The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley!" Trump wrote in
March. Haley denounced several of his campaign comments and urged voters to
"reject the siren call of the angriest voices."

DeVos told The Associated Press in July, "A lot of the things he has said are
very off-putting and concerning."

On Wednesday, Trump said of his U.N. selection: "Gov. Haley has a proven track
record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation
to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our
country."

She said she loved her South Carolina post but "When the president believes you
have a major

contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our nation's standing
in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed."

While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and
right.

The president of the National Education Association, Lily Eskelsen Garcia, said
in a statement that for years DeVos "has lobbied for failed schemes, like
vouchers - which take away funding and local control from our public schools -
to fund private schools at taxpayers' expense."

And Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, tweeted,
"Trump has chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the
creation of the Dept of Education."

At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor,
who has spent millions of dollars - along with her husband - to promote
candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the
Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign.

Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that
climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign
vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.

DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a "Q&A" statement that said directly
about Common Core: "I am not a supporter - period."

"I do support high standards," she said. But along the way Common Core "got
turned into a federal boondoggle."

Just two weeks ago, Trump shocked the political world - including many in his
own party - by winning the presidential contest. The billionaire New Yorker has
yet to take any formal steps to separate from his international business empire
as experts in both parties warn of potential conflicts of interest.

Trump will be sworn into office in less than 60 days. Beyond his Cabinet, he
must fill hundreds of high-level administration posts.

Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of
state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and
Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
formerly an outspoken Trump critic.

After secretary of state, the U.N. ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic
position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international
stage.

As for DeVos, her family has been active in Republican politics for decades,
especially as donors. Her husband, Dick, is an heir to the Amway fortune and a
former president of the company.

The American Federation for Children Action Fund, which DeVos chairs, and its
state-affiliated PACs invested in 121 races in 12 states in the general
election, spending spent $210,000 to support "pro-school choice" candidates in
Oklahoma alone.

"Under her leadership we will reform the U.S. education system and break the
bureaucracy that is holding our children back so that we can deliver world-class
education and school choice to all families," Trump said.

DeVos said in her own statement, "The status quo in education is not
acceptable."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             651 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Why Sanchez's hopes went south

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 634 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

Virtually every aspect of the presidential election has been broken down and
analyzed by experts and pundits, who are still in a state of shock over the
results. Because President-elect Donald Trump's victory caught almost everyone
by surprise, don't expect this analysis to slow down any time soon.

Getting lost in the shuffle were many of the down-ballot races that also
produced fascinating results.

Take for example, the contest to see who would replace retiring U.S. Sen.
Barbara Boxer as California's junior senator.

All of the public polls had Golden State Attorney General Kamala Harris
comfortably ahead of Orange County Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez in the Democrat
vs. Democrat match up. And I think it's safe to say that most experts
anticipated a comfortable Harris victory. What nobody expected was the 62-38
percent shellacking that Sanchez ended up taking.

There is no way to sugarcoat this, she got creamed.

Now, I'd be lying to you if I didn't say that the perennially undisciplined
Sanchez made a bunch of gaffes that contributed to her defeat.

She did.

But her missteps aren't what caused her to lose. The cake, in many ways, was
already baked.

Way back in July, the bigwigs in the Northern California-dominated California
Democratic Party put the word out that Harris was their preferred candidate.
This move effectively cut off any chance Sanchez had at raising money, winning
influential endorsements and getting the party rank and file behind her.

Not only did Harris pick up the endorsements of California Gov. Jerry Brown and
the California Democratic Party, she also got the blessing of President Obama
and Vice President Joe Biden.

In a written statement released by the Harris campaign, the president and vice
president said, "Kamala Harris fights for us. That's why I'm so proud to endorse
her for United States senator. ... And if you send her to the Senate, she'll be
a fearless fighter for the people of California - all the people of California -
every single day."

There's mass speculation that former San Francisco Mayor and current California
Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom could get the same kind of home cooking in his bid for
governor in 2018.

And If another former San Francisco Mayor, Dianne Feinstein, decides to seek
another six-year-term in the U.S. Senate in 2018, her support within the
Democratic Party will surely be locked down.

The most likely outcome is that the Northern California dominance of the state's
top-of-the-ticket offices will continue for another generation.

How did this happen when most of the state's population lives south of
Bakersfield? Easy. A clique of San Francisco Bay politicians control the
Democratic Party in a one-party state, and they take care of their friends and
neighbors.

Just look at the roster; Jerry Brown is a former mayor of Oakland, House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi represents San Francisco in Congress, California
Democratic Party Chairman John Burton used to represent San Francisco in the
state Legislature, and Democratic Party sugar daddy Tom Steyer resides in the
City by the Bay.

At a certain point, Southern California Democrats will have to accept the
reality that they've hit their political ceiling when they become a big-city
mayor or congressman, or a state legislative leader.

Or, they're going to have to beat the machine.

Option B is easier said than done and would require the type of
coalition-building that Sanchez was incapable of doing, which would almost
certainly involve California Republicans.

Eventually, some politician will beat the machine. The only question is when.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             652 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Red state/blue state: Where would you rather live?

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 715 words


"The pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue
states," Barack Obama famously observed in 2004, several years before he ran for
president. "But I've got news for them: There's the United States of America."

Twelve years later, Obama is about to depart the White House, and by now he has
probably learned there are significant differences between so-called "red"
states that tend to vote Republican in presidential elections and "blue" ones
that usually support Democrats. The colors, of course, come from maps often used
as television graphics during election coverage.

What are some of those differences? While campaigning - at least before Donald
Trump - Republicans have tended to focus on values, claiming families and
traditional marriages are stronger in red states than blue ones, while Democrats
contend poor people, minorities and women are better off in blue ones.

California, of course, has been a consistently blue state since 1992, when Bill
Clinton carried it with a plurality of the vote against the elder George Bush,
not winning an actual majority here until 1996.

Republicans often say California Democrats have wrecked the Golden State over
the last 25 years, citing what they insist is a declining quality of life and an
expanded role for government.

It's true Democrats have dominated the Legislature almost all that time, passing
laws that regulate everything from cellphone use in cars to teaching about gay
history in high schools. A "nanny state," many Republicans call it, ignoring the
fact Republican governors like Pete Wilson and Arnold Schwarzenegger signed off
on most of the new regulations Democrats passed in the last quarter-century.

Ethnically speaking, California became blue when its Latinos began to get
politically active. But in many other ways, this is statistically a pretty
standard blue state, and there are major differences between those states and
their red rivals. Here are some (based on U.S. Census data):

o Blue states tend to have a more educated populace; California is fairly
typical with 37.4 percent of adults holding college degrees. Deeply blue
Massachusetts (despite its Republican governor) ranks first in this category
with 53.4 percent of adults holding at least a bachelor's degree. At the bottom
in this category is a corps of red states including Alaska at 26.6 percent,
Texas at 32.2 percent and Arizona with 33 percent.

o Red states tend to have a far higher percentage of people abusing drugs, led
by West Virginia with 25.8 persons out of every 100,000 dying of drug overdoses
each year, Utah with 18.4 and Alaska 18.1 in 2008, the last year for which
statistics are available. Red states like Louisiana, Arizona, Alabama, Oklahoma
and Tennessee all topped 14 per 100,000 in this sad category. California, again
in drug abuse a fairly normal blue state, saw only 10.4 persons out of every
100,000 take fatal overdoses, both from illegal drugs and prescription ones.
(Statistics from the Policy Impact Report of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.)

o A little counterintuitive, the map of states with the highest Census-reported
divorce rates is also almost all red, including Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alaska,
Alabama, Kentucky, Nevada (the only blue state here, but also the only state
with an active quickie divorce industry), Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee and
Arizona.

o Unemployment, on the other hand, is a mixed bag. In the latest Department of
Labor statistics, three red states (Alaska, Louisiana and West Virginia) are
among the top six, with Alaska leading the unfortunate way at 6.7 percent, but
they are joined by three usually blue states (Illinois, New Mexico and the
District of Columbia).

o Red state citizens tend to be more charitable, with the eight states donating
the highest share of their personal income to charity - Utah, Mississippi,
Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina, Idaho, Arkansas and Georgia - all pretty
reliably Republican. (Data from the Chronicle of Philanthropy.)

All of which raises some questions: Do Republican "family values" equate to
higher divorce rates and lower college education? Does going Democratic make
people less charitable? Or are none of these things linked to politics at all?

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             653 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: B,B; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 359 words

ABSTRACT

For all LANG papers

FULL TEXT

We asked readers, What should be Donald Trump's top priority as president?


New president should let Constitution be his guide

Donald Trump's top priority should be to learn and understand the Constitution
and the complexity of the presidency. I'm totally devastated by the outcome of
this presidential election, which was predicated on hate, fear, racism, bigotry
and lies.

Having the likes of a man like Trump becoming president of the U.S. is
frightening. I am hoping that this glorious country of ours isn't decimated by
this uninformed man who truly doesn't know how the U.S. government operates.

The job of the president is too important to hand over to a man not qualified,
who has a volatile temperament and is thin-skinned to criticism.

- Lois Eisenberg, Valencia

First, close the border

Trump should close the border first, stop the chaos and support the border
guards.

- Patricia Serio, Covina

Quit while he's ahead?

President-elect Trump's top priority should be resigning from office before he's
impeached.

- Ray Sherman, Duarte

A neutral view of Trump

I don't know what to think about Donald Trump's plans. Some I support, others I
don't. Love him or deplore him, he's got everyone's attention and it's been a
compelling story to watch unfold. Who knows what drama, success and failures
will emerge in the next four years?

One concern is how all the major news media lost credibility with biased
reporting. I commend the newspaper for trying to remain neutral.

- Lynn Wood, Long Beach

Follow the popular vote

He lost by more than 2 million votes; he should accept that he was not the
choice of the American people, and not accept a prize that he did not earn. He
can instruct electors pledged to him to vote for the real winner: Hillary
Clinton.

Let him avoid the example of Sarah Palin, who learned she couldn't be the boss
of everything and quit in the middle of her term as Alaska governor to make more
money.

- Stephen Kandis, Rancho Palos Verdes

More answers to this Question of the Week will be published Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             654 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                       Redlands Daily Facts (California)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday

Democrats may turn left - off a cliff

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 609 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

When a political party loses a national election, it typically spends the next
several months digging through the rubble and doing some serious soul searching.
In order to regain its competitiveness in the next election cycle, the losing
party usually pours through all of the data in an attempt to figure out why the
American people rejected its candidates and platform.

In the 2016 presidential election, it's not hard to figure out what went wrong
for Hillary Clinton and the Democrats - white, working-class voters abandoned
the party of Jackson and Roosevelt in record numbers. These defections helped
Republican Donald Trump win the once reliably blue Rust Belt states of
Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin and ultimately the nation.

If the Democrats are going to bounce back in the 2018 mid-term elections,
they're going to have to bring these voters back into the tent - it's as simple
as that.

If anything, given which Senate seats will be up for election, these blue collar
white voters will have even more of an impact in 2018 than they did in 2016.

In the next cycle, Democrats will be defending senate seats in Florida, Indiana,
Michigan, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and
Wisconsin - all states that went for Trump. The Republicans will be defending
only one Senate seat in a state that Clinton won, Nevada.

There's no question the map favors the GOP.

The first major decision the Democrats will have to make is who will replace the
interim chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, Donna Brazile.

As of now, the favorite appears to be liberal Minnesota Congressman Keith
Ellison.

Ellison, the only Muslim member of Congress, has already racked up some
high-profile endorsements, including Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, incoming
Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer and filmmaker Michael Moore.

However, given Ellison's long history of associating with radicals and making
extreme statements on race and other matters, he may not be the Democrats' best
messenger to communicate with blue collar America.

As a third-year law student at the University of Minnesota, Ellison wrote
columns for the Minnesota Daily under the name Keith Hakim. In these op-ed
pieces, Ellison demanded reparations for slavery and an optional separate
country for American blacks.

Ellison organized a rallythat featured Nation of Islam spokesman Khalid Abdul
Muhammad. At the rally Muhammad declared, "If words were swords, the chests of
Jews, gays and whites would be pierced."

Ellison has since tried to distance himself from these off-the-wall statements
and boutique beliefs. However, all indications are that he continued to publicly
defend Louis Farrakhan and the Nation of Islam through at least the year 2000,
when he was an elected member of the Minnesota state Legislature.

More recently, Ellison made headlines by declaring Cuban dictator Fidel Castro's
legacy to be a "mixed bag."

While speaking to Sirius XM's Karen Hunter, Ellison said that while Castro
engaged in "harsh dictatorial tactics," he also stood up "for peace and freedom
in Africa." Ellison went on to argue, "If you look at his legacy you have to say
that he confronted people with a lot of power on behalf of people that didn't
have any."

OK, then. Thanks for clearing that up.

Tapping Congressman Ellison as chairman of the DNC may be cathartic for
shell-shocked Democrats, but he would be an unmitigated disaster for the party.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group,
                              All Rights Reserved


                             655 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Why did Oracle s co-CEO Safra Catz visit Trump?

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 342 words


After tension between the tech world and President-elect Donald Trump reached a
high pitch during the campaign, with Apple and Amazon both becoming targets of
his criticism, Silicon Valley is now trying to figure out why one of the
regioncs corporate divas would be meeting with Trump.

While an Oracle spokeswoman confirmed last Thursdaycs meeting between its co-CEO
Safra Catz, sometimes called Larry Ellisoncs cenforcer,c and the
president-to-be, there were no additional details released by either the Redwood
Shores tech giant or the Trump campaign.

Oracle did not immediately respond to this newspaper on Monday for a comment.

That leaves many in the Valley scratching their heads: a Fortune article said
that Catz was being considered for a cabinet post, but it did provide any
evidence to back up the claim. Reporters monitoring the flow of visitors to
Trump Tower on Thursday said only that the president-elect was scheduled to meet
with Catz, along with others includingcTexas Representative Jeb Hensarling,
whose name has been floated for Treasury secretary; FedEx Corp. Chief Executive
Officer Fred Smith; and Florida Governor Rick Scott.

And itcs not clear how well, if at all, Catz and Trump know one another. The
Washington Post reported that Catz, who was named co-chief executive (along with
Mark Hurd) of Oracle in 2014 when company co-founder Ellison stepped back from
the CEO role, has donated to bothcDemocratic and Republican candidates in the
past. This year, Catz, Hurd, and Ellison all gave money to the campaign of
Senator Marco Rubio, who ran against Trump in the Republican presidential
primaries.

If she were being considered for a post in the Trump White House, Catz comes
with stellar credentials, boasting extensive experience in finance. AtcDonaldson
Lufkin & Jenrette, she worked as an investment banker. Coming to Oracle in 1999,
Catz served as the software giantcs chief financial officer for several years
and she developed a reputation as being one of Ellisoncs closest and most loyal
advisors.

Credit: Bay Area News Group

c

c

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             656 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Reddit CEO faces calls to resign for editing critical comments from Trump
supporters

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 339 words


Reddit CEO Steve Huffman admitted this week he changed comments made by users in
a pro-Donald Trump discussion thread after they insulted and criticized him for
allowing the tech firm to pull down a cPizzagatec conspiracy board from the
site.

Some users arenct only upset, but theycre calling for Huffmancs resignation. A
petition on Change.org askingcHuffman to step down as CEO already has more than
4,700 supporters. The petition says that Huffman, who also co-founded Reddit in
2005,ccbreached the security and trust of the community he created years ago.c

It all hit a boiling point after Reddit banned a community thread called
cr/pizzagatec aimed at proving acconspiracy theory that presidential candidate
Hillary Clinton and campaign chairman John Podesta were running a child
trafficking ring out of pizza restaurant Comet Ping Pong. cThe story was
fabricated, but the owner of the restaurant has received numerous death threats
and abusive messages via social media, according to story by The New York Times
.

Noting that personal and confidential information was being spread on
cr/pizzagatec and that they donct want cwitchhuntsc on their site, Reddit pulled
down the subreddit this week.

That irked users part of a pro-Donald Trump discussion thread
calledccr/The_Donald,c who thought the companycs decision to pull down
cr/pizzagatec amounted to censorship. Some users started posting profane
comments about Huffman, which goes by the user name cspezc on Reddit.

On Wednesday, members of cr/The_Donaldc started noticing that their posts about
the shutdown of cr/pizzagatec had been changed.

Thatcs when Huffman admitted that he did edit some of the abusive comments
targeted at him:

Reddit has had a series of CEOs that have stepped down in the past.cIn 2015,
Huffman took over for interim chief executive Ellen Pao who resigned after
facing criticism for banning discussion threads and firing a well-liked
employee.

Pao had replacedcReddit CEO Yishan Wong, who abruptly resigned from the position
in 2014.

Photo Credit: Reddit Logo

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             657 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Should Twitter delete Donald Trump s account over fake news concerns?

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 653 words


President-elect Donald Trumpcs unsubstantiated tweet Sunday that millions of
people voted illegally for Democratic rival Hillary Clinton is fueling renewed
calls that Twitter delete his account.

On Sunday, Trump alleged in a tweet that he cwon the popular vote if you deduct
the millions of people who voted illegallyc even though there isnct any evidence
that widespread voter fraud occurred during the election.

With concerns about fake news on social media sites heightening after the
election, some of Clintoncs former aides   includingcformer campaign spokesman
Jesse Ferguson   and supporters argue that Trumpcs tweet run afoul of the
companycs rules about online conduct . Twitter takes into account if its user is
crepeatedly creating false or misleading contentc when deciding what constitutes
as spam. Accounts engaged in that type of behavior may be temporarily locked or
permanently suspended, according to the policy.

Dear @twitter   I hear you close down accts promoting fake news and false
conspiracies.

Please consider deleting this one. Thanks. https://t.co/lV1ACAG04Z

Jesse Ferguson (@JesseFFerguson) November 27, 2016

Trump's Twitter account has now caused a serious national problem. Two months
before he's even sworn in! DELETE HIS ACCOUNT.

Elliott Lusztig (@ezlusztig) November 28, 2016

In a month, Donald Trump's account name will be POTUS. What a scary thought.
@twitter be a pal an delete his account.

Tori Olive (@Torrificc) November 28, 2016

On Monday, Twitter was tight-lipped about how it is handling these concerns.

Twitter spokesman Nu Wexler said in an e-mail that Twittercs rules apply to all
accounts, but stopped short of clarifying whether Trumpcs tweet went against the
companycs policy, whether the tech firm was considering deleting his account or
whether he received any violation notices.

cWe do not comment on individual accounts, for privacy and security reasons,c he
said.

Calls that Twitter pull down Trumpcs account have occurred throughout the
presidential election, but manycof the concerns chave centered around hate
speech. After Trumpcs victory, some people blamed social media companies for not
doing enough to stop the spread of misinformation.

Even Facebook, the worldcs largest social media site, grappled internally with
what to do with Trumpcs social media posts during his campaign, The Wall Street
Journal reported in October . Citing anonymous sources, the news outlet reported
that some employees believed that Trumpcs posts about banning Muslims from
entering the United States should have been removed for violating the sitecs
rules on hate speech, and that the tech firm was bending the rules for him.

The phrase cdelete your accountc was in Clintoncs most popular tweet during the
election.

And with Trump taking to Twitter to criticize the cast of Hamilton, the New York
Times and even the results of the presidential election, some voters believe
that Trump might be better off if he stopped tweeting. About 59 percent of
voters want Trump to delete his Twitter account, a recent national poll
bycQuinnipiac University, found .

This factless madness shows @realDonaldTrump to be unhinged. If PresNixon had a
Twitter account it would not reflect this much paranoia.

Carl Bernstein (@carlbernstein) November 28, 2016

But Trumpcs tweets are making headlines and that might not be bad for Twitter,
which has struggled to attract more users to its site. Mercury Newsccolumnist
Michelle Quinn wrote earlier today that Trumpcs constant tweeting could cbreathe
new lifec into Twitter.

SiliconBeat reached out to Trumpcs press office and will update this post if
anyone responds.

Photo: Donald Trump, accompanied by New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, left, takes
questions from members of the media during a news conference on Super Tuesday
primary election night in the White and Gold Ballroom at The Mar-A-Lago Club in
Palm Beach, Florida, March 1, 2016. (Andrew Harnik/AP)c

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             658 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         The Mercury News (California)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Reddit vows to combat online abuse and CEO apologizes for editing Trump
supporters comments

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 474 words


Reddit CEO and co-founder Steve Huffman said Wednesday that the tech firm will
be taking action against the social media sitecs cmost toxic usersc and
apologized for how he handled abusive comments hurled at him.

In a post on Reddit , Huffman wrote that the San Francisco tech firm will issue
warnings, timeouts and permanent bans for users that continually violate the
sitecs rules. Posts from a popular pro-Donald Trump community called
cr/the_donaldc will also not appear on one of its main hubs called cr/all.c

cI am sorry: I am sorry for compromising the trust you all have in Reddit, and I
am sorry to those that I created work and stress for, particularly over the
holidays,c wrote Huffman, who goes by the user name spez on the site. cIt is
heartbreaking to think that my actions distracted people from their family over
the holiday; instigated harassment of our moderators; and may have harmed Reddit
itself, which I love more than just about anything.c

Huffman came under fire late last week cfor modifyingccomments made by users in
a pro-Donald Trump discussion thread after they insulted and criticized him for
allowing the tech firm to pull down a cPizzagatec conspiracy board from the
site.

Reddit banned a community thread called cr/pizzagatec aimed at proving a false
conspiracy theory that Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and
campaign chairman John Podesta were running a child-trafficking ring out of
pizza restaurant Comet Ping Pong.

Users part of a pro-Donald Trump discussion thread thought the companycs
decision to pull down cr/pizzagatec amounted to censorship and started posting
critical and profane comments about Huffman.

The 33-year-old CEO changed some of the profane comments directed at him with
the user names of moderators from the Trump thread for about an hour.

Social media companies such as Facebook and Twitter have also been trying to do
more to crack down on online abuse, but Huffman made an unusual and
controversial move by trying to ctroll the trollsc himself.

cI honestly thought I might find some common ground with that community by
meeting them on their level. It did not go as planned. I restored the original
comments after less than an hour, and explained what I did,c he wrote.

An online petition asking that Huffman step down as CEO racked up more than
5,300 signatures.

cWhile many users across the site found what I did funny, or appreciated that I
was standing up to the bullies (I received plenty of support from users of
r/the_donald), many others did not,c he wrote. cI understand what I did has
greater implications than my relationship with one community, and it is fair to
raise the question of whether this erodes trust in Reddit.c

The company is cupdating our internal controlsc to prevent him from modifying
user comments in the future, Huffman wrote.

Photo Credit:cReddit Logo

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


                             659 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Angela Merkel, Donald Trump, Andy Murray: Your Monday Briefing;
Europe Edition

BYLINE: PATRICK BOEHLER

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1072 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

President-elect Donald J. Trump is continuing to build his cabinet. Members of
his transition effort's economic and domestic policy teams are expected to begin
meeting with agency officials today.

He has hinted strongly that James N. Mattis, a retired general who helped lead
the 2003 invasion of Iraq, will be defense secretary. Here are the latest
transition details.

Mr. Trump's meetings with business leaders since his election, including three
Indian real estate executives last week, have raised questions over his
conflicts of interests as president.

_____

Mr. Trump used Twitter to rail at his satirists and critics in the entertainment
industry.

But Vice President-elect Mike Pence said he was not offended when the cast of
the Broadway smash "Hamilton" appealed to him from the stage to uphold the
rights of a "diverse America."

Our theater critic argues that airing dissent is part of the purpose of art.

_____

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, widely seen as one of the last pillars of
Western liberalism, will run for a fourth term next fall.

Ms. Merkel, 62, faces strong challenges on the right and left, under the
stresses of war in Syria, the arrival of large numbers of migrants and the euro
crisis.

_____

François Fillon took a surprise lead in the first round of voting in the
conservative primary for president in France, knocking former President Nicolas
Sarkozy out of the race.

Mr. Fillon, a former premier, will face Alain Juppé, who supporters see as a
measured answer to the resurgent far right, in a second round next Sunday. The
winner is likely to face the far-right populist Marine Le Pen in the
presidential election in April.

_____

World leaders are discussing trade and the incoming administration of Mr. Trump
at the annual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in Lima, Peru.

The death of the Trans-Pacific Partnership would be a triumph for China, which
is embracing the possibility of an Asia-Pacific trade deal with Russia.

On the meeting's sidelines, President Obama spoke with Russia's president,
Vladimir V. Putin, about Syria, where the last few hospitals in the rebel-held
area of Aleppo have been forced to stop providing care.

_____

Business

Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, speaks to the European
Parliament today. Questions about how the Trump presidency will affect the
eurozone are expected to dominate.

Italy's banks are starving a weak economy of capital, which may keep the rest of
Europe from recovering.

A Chinese company is setting up a rare showdown with the U.S. government over
its deal to buy a German semiconductor firm.

Here's a snapshot of global markets.

In the News

Estonia's president is expected to confirm Juri Ratas, a former mayor of
Tallinn, the capital, as the country's next prime minister. His Center Party had
been shut out of power for its links to Russia's ruling party. [The New York
Times]

Poland's right-wing populists are celebrating Mr. Trump as a natural ally but
are wary of his fondness for Russia. [The New York Times]

Ukrainian prosecutors said they would question Viktor F. Yanukovych, the exiled
former president, in Russia this week over his role in the death of more than
100 protesters during the 2014 revolution that ousted him. [Kyiv Post]

A British patrol boat fired flares at a Spanish research vessel to expel it from
Gibraltar's territorial waters. [Gibraltar Chronicle]

An annual conference in Washington gathered many white nationalists of the
so-called alt-right movement. They celebrated Mr. Trump's election with the
salute "Heil Victory." [The New York Times]

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel is facing questions over a
billion-dollar deal with Germany for the acquisition of three submarines in
which his personal lawyer was involved. [The New York Times]

South Korea's political crisis escalated after prosecutors named the president a
"criminal suspect," saying she acted as an accomplice to her longtime adviser in
extorting tens of millions of dollars. [The New York Times]

The gangs that make El Salvador the murder capital of the world are not
sophisticated global cartels but mafias of the poor. [The New York Times]

Noteworthy

Our Daily 360: Goat yoga is a thing. More than 600 people signed up to a waiting
list before the first classes in near Portland, Ore., even started.

Andy Murray's first victory at the ATP World Tour Finals ensured that he would
end 2016 holding the top tennis ranking for the first time.

A stunning finish to the Macau Grand Prix: A Belgian driver, Laurens Vanthoor,
emerged unscathed from a fiery, soaring wreck to find he had won the race upside
down.

The Times asked 15 American families to show us the Thanksgiving holiday dishes
that speak most eloquently about their heritage and traditions. Among them:
Filipino bibingka, Dudhi kofta curry and Cantonese turkey.

And here is a look at how Beyoncé and Rihanna influenced hair styles in Abidjan,
Ivory Coast.

Back Story

Let's start the week traveling the world using sports team nicknames as our
passport.

The N.F.L.'s Detroit Lions will continue their long tradition of playing on
Thanksgiving. Regal cats aren't native to the Motor City, but the name was meant
to inspire the team to be "the monarch of the league."

Dreams that the Midwest might one day be tropical may have inspired the team's
use of the Honolulu Blue shade for its jerseys.

A more fitting nod to weather can be found at the University of Hawaii, where
the teams are sometimes called the Rainbow Warriors. The colorful phenomenon
supposedly appeared after a big football victory in 1923.

Battle imagery is also popular, and the names aren't always menacing. The
Nippon-Ham Fighters honor the meatpacking company that owns the Japanese
baseball club.

In West Africa, Elephants (Ivory Coast), Sparrowhawks (Togo) and Squirrels
(Benin) are some of the animal-theme nicknames that have been used to represent
national soccer teams.

Back in Asia, Bhutan's underdog squad has a fearsome moniker: the Dragon Boys.
The mythical beast also appears on the national jersey for Wales.

As for whales, they're rarely used in sports. But 100 years ago a baseball team
called itself the Whales. Their home, like lions in Detroit, was also unlikely:
Chicago.

Sean Alfano contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             660 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Alt-Right Gathering Exults in Trump Election With Nazi-Era Salute

BYLINE: JOSEPH GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1605 words



HIGHLIGHT: The alt-right, an extremist fringe popular with white supremacists,
has celebrated the election of Donald J. Trump, and now hopes to have the ear of
his White House.


Correction Appended

WASHINGTON - By the time Richard B. Spencer, the leading ideologue of the
alt-right movement and the final speaker of the night, rose to address a
gathering of his followers on Saturday, the crowd was restless.

In 11 hours of speeches and panel discussions in a federal building named after
Ronald Reagan a few blocks from the White House, a succession of speakers had
laid out a harsh vision for the future, but had denounced violence and said that
Hispanic citizens and black Americans had nothing to fear. Earlier in the day,
Mr. Spencer himself had urged the group to start acting less like an underground
organization and more like the establishment.

But now his tone changed as he began to tell the audience of more than 200
people, mostly young men, what they had been waiting to hear. He railed against
Jews and, with a smile, quoted Nazi propaganda in the original German. America,
he said, belonged to white people, whom he called the "children of the sun," a
race of conquerors and creators who had been marginalized but now, in the era of
President-elect Donald J. Trump, were "awakening to their own identity."

As he finished, several audience members had their arms outstretched in a Nazi
salute. Mr. Spencer called out: "Hail Trump! Hail our people!" and then, "Hail
victory!" - the English translation of the Nazi exhortation "Sieg Heil!" The
room shouted back.

These are exultant times for the alt-right movement, which was little known
until this year, when it embraced Mr. Trump's campaign and he appeared to
embrace it back. He chose as his campaign chairman Stephen K. Bannon, the media
executive who ran the alt-right's most prominent platform, Breitbart News, and
then named him as a senior adviser and chief strategist.

Now the movement's leaders hope to have, if not a seat at the table, at least
the ear of the Trump White House.

While many of its racist views are well known - that President Obama is, or may
as well be, of foreign birth; that the Black Lives Matter movement is another
name for black race rioters; that even the American-born children of
undocumented Hispanic immigrants should be deported - the alt-right has been
difficult to define. Is it a name for right-wing political provocateurs in the
internet era? Or is it a political movement defined by xenophobia and a dislike
for political correctness?

At the conference on Saturday, Mr. Spencer, who said he had coined the term,
defined the alt-right as a movement with white identity as its core idea.

"We've crossed the Rubicon in terms of recognition," Mr. Spencer said at the
conference, which was sponsored by his organization, the National Policy
Institute.

And while much of the discourse at the conference was overtly racist and
demeaning toward minorities, for much of the day the sentiments were expressed
in ways that seemed intended to not sound too menacing. The focus was on how
whites were marginalized and beleaguered.

One speaker, Peter Brimelow, the founder of Vdare.com, an anti-immigration
website, asked why, if Hispanics had the National Council of La Raza and Jews
had the Anti-Defamation League, whites were reluctant to organize for their
rights. Some speakers made an effort to distance themselves from more notorious
white power organizations like the Ku Klux Klan.

But as the night wore on and most reporters had gone home, the language changed.

Mr. Spencer's after-dinner speech began with a polemic against the "mainstream
media," before he briefly paused. "Perhaps we should refer to them in the
original German?" he said.

The audience immediately screamed back, "Lügenpresse," reviving a Nazi-era word
that means "lying press."

Mr. Spencer suggested that the news media had been critical of Mr. Trump
throughout the campaign in order to protect Jewish interests. He mused about the
political commentators who gave Mr. Trump little chance of winning.

"One wonders if these people are people at all, or instead soulless golem," he
said, referring to a Jewish fable about the golem, a clay giant that a rabbi
brings to life to protect the Jews.

Mr. Trump's election, Mr. Spencer said, was "the victory of will," a phrase that
echoed the title of the most famous Nazi-era propaganda film. But Mr. Spencer
then mentioned, with a smile, Theodor Herzl, the Zionist leader who advocated a
Jewish homeland in Israel, quoting his famous pronouncement, "If we will it, it
is no dream."

The United States today, Mr. Spencer said, had been turned into "a sick,
corrupted society." But it was not supposed to be that way.

"America was, until this last generation, a white country designed for ourselves
and our posterity," Mr. Spencer thundered. "It is our creation, it is our
inheritance, and it belongs to us."

But the white race, he added, is "a race that travels forever on an upward
path."

"To be white is to be a creator, an explorer, a conqueror," he said.

More members of the audience were on their feet as Mr. Spencer described the
choice facing white people as to "conquer or die."

Of other races, Mr. Spencer said: "We don't exploit other groups, we don't gain
anything from their presence. They need us, and not the other way around."

The ties between the alt-right movement and the Trump team are difficult to
define, even by members of the alt-right.

Mr. Bannon was the chief executive of Breitbart, an online news organization
that has fed the lie that Mr. Obama is a Kenyan-born Muslim. As recently as last
year, Breitbart published an op-ed article urging that "every tree, every
rooftop, every picket fence, every telegraph pole in the South should be
festooned with the Confederate battle flag."

Mr. Bannon told Mother Jones this year that Breitbart was now "the platform for
the alt-right."

But in an interview last week with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Bannon said that
the alt-right was only "a tiny part" of the viewpoint represented on Breitbart.

"Our definition of the alt-right is younger people who are anti-globalists, very
nationalist, terribly anti-establishment," he told The Journal, adding that the
alt-right had "some racial and anti-Semitic overtones."

When asked about Mr. Bannon, the conference's speakers said that they might have
shaken his hand on occasion, but that they did not know him well.

Mr. Brimelow said that he had met "Mr. Bannon once, earlier this summer, before
he ascended to Olympus." He said he had told Mr. Bannon that he was doing great
work at Breitbart. "He agreed," Mr. Brimelow recalled to the audience.

As for Mr. Trump, Mr. Brimelow said he had met him about 30 years ago at a
"conservative affinity meeting" in Manhattan. But that was it.

"Trump and Steve Bannon are not alt-right people," Mr. Brimelow said, adding
that they had opportunistically seized on two issues that the alt-right cares
most about - stopping immigration and fighting political correctness - and used
them to mobilize white voters.

Mr. Spencer said that while he did not think the president-elect should be
considered alt-right, "I do think we have a psychic connection, or you can say a
deeper connection, with Donald Trump in a way that we simply do not have with
most Republicans."

White identity, he said, is at the core of both the alt-right movement and the
Trump movement, even if most voters for Mr. Trump "aren't willing to articulate
it as such."

At various points, he and other speakers outlined where they differed from Mr.
Trump. They see him as too beholden to Israel. They do not see any reason to
start a trade war with China, and they are not necessarily opposed to the Iran
nuclear deal.

For them, immigration is the most potent mobilizing issue, less for economic
reasons than because of the prospect that white Americans will someday represent
less than half of the population of the country.

For the alt-right, the most exciting thing about Mr. Trump was that he built a
campaign around the issues that mattered most to them, and that white people had
voted for him in numbers that left the political establishments of both parties
stunned. Now, Mr. Spencer said, it is up to the alt-right to formulate the ideas
and policies to guide the new administration.

"I think we can be the ones out in front, thinking about those things he hasn't
quite grasped yet, who are putting forward policies," Mr. Spencer said, that
"have a realistic chance of being implemented."


Correction: November 24, 2016, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
Monday described a speech in Washington by Richard B. Spencer, president of the
white-nationalist National Policy Institute. At the end of the speech, Mr.
Spencer and audience members shouted versions of Nazi slogans, as some audience
members raised their arms in the Nazi salute.

A Times reporter in the hall heard audience members shout "Heil victory!" and
other exhortations. A video of the scene, released after the article was
published, showed that Mr. Spencer himself shouted "Hail victory!" - the English
translation of the Nazis' "Sieg Heil!" - as well as "Hail Trump! " and "Hail our
people!" (Mr. Spencer did not use the German "Heil," as the original article
suggested.)

PHOTOS: Protesters in Washington on Saturday outside a conference where Richard
B. Spencer, left, a leader of the alt-right, spoke in favor of President-elect
Donald J. Trump. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

Related Articles


     ·    'White Nationalism,' Explained
     ·    White Nationalists Celebrate 'an Awakening' After Donald Trump's
          Victory
     ·    As Trump Rises, So Do Some Hands Waving Confederate Battle Flags
     ·    Trump's Choice of Stephen Bannon Is Nod to Anti-Washington Base
     ·    Lies in the Guise of News in the Trump Era


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             661 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Nicolas Sarkozy Is Out as François Fillon Takes Surprise Lead in French Primary

BYLINE: ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 753 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Fillon, a tradition-minded former prime minister, won the first
round among the Republicans, advancing to face Alain Juppé and knocking out
former President Nicolas Sarkozy.


PARIS - A taciturn, tradition-minded former prime minister, François Fillon,
emerged as the surprise front-runner in the first round of presidential primary
voting among center-right candidates in France on Sunday, advancing to the
second round next week against another former prime minister, Alain Juppé, who
came in second.

Mr. Fillon delivered an unexpected knockout to a third candidate, former
President Nicolas Sarkozy, whose strident appeals to French identity and
get-tough approach to immigrants and Islamist terrorism had been thought to
guarantee him a place in the second round of voting, on Nov. 27. Mr. Fillon,
whom Mr. Sarkozy appointed as prime minister in 2007, co-opted those themes,
using less harsh language, and pushed aside his former boss. With the governing
Socialists largely discredited, the winner of the second-round contest in the
Republicans' party primary will be considered the favorite in the presidential
election next year.

With most of the votes counted, Mr. Fillon led with 44.1 percent, Mr. Juppé was
second with 28.3 percent, and Mr. Sarkozy had 20.9 percent.

Mr. Fillon, who was Mr. Sarkozy's prime minister for five years, had languished
in polls for months behind him and the more moderate Mr. Juppé. French
commentators had largely written off Mr. Fillon, pointing out that Mr. Sarkozy
appeared to have seduced the party's hard-right voters, who were worried about
immigration and Islam, and that Mr. Juppé seemed to appeal to the party's more
centrist voters, seeking a more inclusive approach. A week ago, most were
confidently predicting a Juppé-Sarkozy runoff.

But in the past week, Mr. Fillon advanced in the polls, having positioned
himself between the integrationist message of Mr. Juppé and the tougher
positions of Mr. Sarkozy. On Sunday night, French television commentators
expressed astonishment that the longtime favorite, Mr. Juppé, had suddenly
become a challenger with tough odds.

The winner of the second round is likely to face the candidate of France's
far-right National Front, Marine Le Pen, in the presidential election. On
Sunday, Ms. Le Pen boasted that the Republicans' primary had been fought on her
themes: French identity, reconsideration of France's role in Europe, and a
crackdown on immigration and jihadists.

Those themes are likely to dominate electioneering here. For the next week, Mr.
Fillon and Mr. Juppé will be seeking Mr. Sarkozy's voters. Mr. Fillon has
promised to add 16,000 prison cells, create a special antiterrorism judicial
unit, crack down harshly on anybody who maintains any relation with the Islamic
State, and strip the French citizenship of those who embark on jihad.

The themes are a natural fit for Mr. Sarkozy's voters, and as he conceded on
Sunday night, Mr. Sarkozy said he would vote for Mr. Fillon - a man who had
expressed disdain for his former patron during the campaign. But the two have a
similar outlook on the world, and in particular a more conciliatory approach
than Mr. Juppé to the Russia led by Vladimir V. Putin. Mr. Fillon has called for
a Western coalition with Mr. Putin, the Russian president, to fight ISIS.

Still, a large majority of voters said in exit polls on Sunday that economic
issues were of uppermost concern, and on that subject, Mr. Fillon could be
vulnerable. He has promised harsh measures - in the French context - to roll
back the role of the state in the country's economy: cutting 500,000 to 600,000
civil service positions, eliminating the 35-hour workweek, and moving to a
39-hour workweek in state workplaces like hospitals. These kinds of campaign
planks typically bring tens of thousands of demonstrators into the streets - as
Mr. Juppé learned at his expense in the mid-1990s - and bring down governments.

Mr. Juppé has criticized Mr. Fillon's economic program as far too harsh, and
unworkable. He seems certain to hammer that theme in the seven days remaining in
the primary campaign. But the odds may now be against him.

"Fillon will win," said Gérard Grunberg, a political scientist at the Paris
Institute of Political Studies, who added that a week ago, he would not have
predicted Mr. Fillon's swift rise.

"Juppé campaigned too far to the left for the French right," Mr. Grunberg said.
Referring to Mr. Fillon, he added, "I didn't think it would all crystallize
around his personality."

PHOTO: François Fillon

Related Articles


     ·    An Unlikely Contender Rises in France as the Antithesis of Trump
     ·    For Le Pen, the Impossible Now Seems Possible
     ·    Nicolas Sarkozy Is Back, but France Has Changed


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             662 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook Must Defend the Truth;
Mediator

BYLINE: JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1333 words



HIGHLIGHT: As the mainstream news media work to separate fact from fiction,
Facebook - which has gobbled up much of the online ad market - must do its part.



Friday night, the Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg went on his vast social
network to convince an expanding chorus of critics - including the departing
president of the United States - that he honest-to-goodness wants to combat the
"fake news" that is running wild across his site and others, and turning our
politics into a paranoiac fantasy come to life.

"We've been working on this problem for a long time and we take this
responsibility seriously," he wrote.

"We've made significant progress, but there is more work to be done," he
continued, listing various steps Facebook was taking, like making it easier to
report bad information and enlisting fact-checking organizations.

It was heartening to hear, especially after his earlier assertion that it was
"crazy" to believe that misinformation on Facebook had affected the presidential
election in any real way - despite copious evidence that it was disturbingly in
the mix, whether it directly swung the result or not.

But as Mr. Zuckerberg went on to say that Facebook had to be careful not to
mistakenly block "accurate content," he added this: "We do not want to be
arbiters of truth ourselves," which was why he said Facebook would continue to
rely on "our community and trusted third parties."

His statement pointed up how much Facebook struggles to find the balance between
its mission to be a free-expression utopia for its 1.8 billion users and its
responsibility to protect them from all that is defamatory, dangerous (like
terrorist propaganda) and untrue.

But more to the point, it appeared to buy into the notion that truth is relative
at a time when that notion has to finally go away. Do you really need an outside
arbiter to determine whether a video suggesting - without basis - that Hillary
Clinton was involved in John F. Kennedy Jr.'s fatal plane crash in 1999 should
be allowed to stand? Really?

Truth doesn't need arbiters. It needs defenders. And it needs them now more than
ever as the American democracy staggers into its next uncertain phase.

With a mainstream news media that works hard to separate fact from fiction under
economic and political threat, Facebook - which has contributed to that economic
threat by gobbling up so much of the online advertising market - is going to
have a special responsibility to do its part.

Just imagine what things will look like if the unsavory elements that tore
through the 2016 election - false narratives, fake news and aggressive efforts
to delegitimize traditional journalism - come back into play as Donald J. Trump
presses to enact his agenda.

If the past week provided any indication of where politics are going, the next
four years are going to require an all-hands-on-deck effort to keep the national
conversation honest.

The national security adviser Mr. Trump named last week, Michael T. Flynn, a
retired Army lieutenant general, has subscribed to the conspiracy theory that
Shariah law is taking root in the United States (it isn't), contributing to his
insistence that Americans have every reason to view Islam as "a threat."

He recently used Twitter to circulate a fake news item that the Federal Bureau
of Investigation was sitting on evidence from Anthony Weiner's laptop that would
"put Hillary and her crew away for life."

Mr. Trump's nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, has
falsely claimed that hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants are
successfully crossing the border annually.

Then there was the announcement by the conspiracy theorist Alex Jones that Mr.
Trump had called to thank him and his radio and internet audience for their
support in the campaign.

Add to that the fact that Mr. Trump was the most prominent promoter of the false
notion that President Obama wasn't born here, and didn't hesitate to repeat the
outrageous suggestion that the father of Senator Ted Cruz was linked to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

Then consider what it may look like when Mr. Trump pursues policies regarding
Muslim immigrants and undocumented immigrants.

It's not so outlandish to envision Mr. Trump's attempts to sell his plans
getting a lift from the likes of Mr. Jones or a fake site out of Macedonia -
perhaps claiming that Democrats are working with ISIS to use undocumented
immigrants to poison local water supplies or some such.

President Obama seemed to have had something like that in mind when he told
reporters in Germany on Thursday, "If we are not serious about facts and what's
true and what's not," and "if we can't discriminate between serious arguments
and propaganda, then we have problems."

Mr. Obama knows of what he speaks. He had to muddle through the first wave of
this.

You might remember how his health care plan was marred by a false accusation
that the plan included so-called death panels that would decide who lived and
who died based on their "level of productivity to society," as former Gov. Sarah
Palin put it (on her Facebook page!).

The false "death panel" allegation was partly based on proposals to reimburse
doctors for optional consultations with families over end-of-life care
decisions.

The accusations took on such power that even Newt Gingrich signed on to the
falsehood despite the fact that he had previously expressed bullish support for
end-of-life planning. (He explained himself in a 2009 letter to The New York
Times.)

News organizations, including this one, debunked the myth. But the bill's
authors stripped out the provision just the same. And by then the "death panel"
fiction had negated any shot at a reasoned, ideological debate - you're joining
the Democrats' plan to kill our infirm children and parents?!

As Dan Pfeiffer, who was the president's chief communications strategist at the
time, so grimly put it to me last week, "The faux death panels were the canary
in the coal mine about the coming death of truth."

Things have advanced since then. Today's fake news is limited only by the
imaginations of its inventors and the number of shares it can garner on Facebook
or Twitter.

(To wit: The one million shares of the preposterous notion that Mrs. Clinton
secretly sold weapons to ISIS. BuzzFeed News - which has excelled at
illuminating the fake news problem - highlighted that example in its alarming
analysis showing that during the campaign cycle fake news was shared among
Facebook users more often than real news was.)

That's why people who care about the truth - citizens, journalists and, let's
hope, social media giants like Facebook, too - will have to come up with a
solution to this informational nihilism, fast.

It's easier said than done. The combination of attacks seeking to delegitimize
serious news organizations and a drop in overall trust in the news media has
made many people wary of legitimate fact-checking. And, as my colleague John
Herrman noted last weekend, politicized voices can easily drown honest
journalism all too easily on social media.

There is growing talk of an ambitious journalistic collaboration to beat back
the tide. Industry thinkers and leaders are coming together online to brainstorm
solutions, as Jeff Jarvis, the City University of New York journalism professor,
and Eli Pariser, the Upworthy co-founder, have done. (Check them out online.)
And I'd say it's high time that television news - with its still-huge audiences
- gets into the act with more than just token gestures at fact-checking.

But this much seems clear: The moment calls for some sort of hyperfactual
counterinsurgency that treats every false meme as a baby Hitler to be killed in
its crib with irrefutable facts.

So hey, Zuck, let's roll.

PHOTO: Journalists waited in the lobby of Trump Tower in New York on the evening
of Nov. 11. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5)

Related Articles


     ·    How Fake News Goes Viral: A Case Study
     ·    Fixation on Fake News Overshadows Waning Trust in Real Reporting
     ·    Facebook Considering Ways to Combat Fake News, Mark Zuckerberg Says
     ·    Facebook's Damage to Democracy
     ·    Fake News in U.S. Election? Elsewhere, That's Nothing New


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             663 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Trump Turns Staid Process Into Spectacle as Aspirants Parade to His Door

BYLINE: MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1500 words



HIGHLIGHT: President-elect Donald J. Trump hinted strongly that he was
considering picking James N. Mattis, a retired Marine Corps general, to be
defense secretary.


BEDMINSTER, N.J. - President-elect Donald J. Trump has turned the vital, but
normally inscrutable, process of forming a government into a Trump-branded,
made-for-television spectacle, parading his finalists for top administration
positions this weekend before reporters and the world.

The two days unfolded like a pageant, with the many would-be officials striding
up the circular driveway at Trump National Golf Club here, meeting Mr. Trump
below three glass chandeliers at the entrance and shaking hands while facing the
cameras. To build suspense, Mr. Trump offered teasing hints about coming
announcements.

"I think so," he said about whether he would make any appointments on Sunday. "I
think so. It could very well happen."

Among the contenders he met with was James N. Mattis, a hard-charging retired
Marine Corps general. He appears - according to Mr. Trump's own words on Twitter
- to be the leading candidate for defense secretary.

Outside the club's three-story farmhouse on Saturday, the president-elect poked
a finger in General Mattis's direction and called him "a great man." The next
morning, at 8:39, Mr. Trump gushed again, this time on Twitter, calling him
"very impressive" and saying he was "a true general's general!"

Perhaps by design, the roster of figures arriving at the club was difficult to
pigeonhole: There were loyalists (Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York
mayor), former adversaries (Mitt Romney, who once called Mr. Trump a "phony"),
Democrats (Michelle A. Rhee, the former schools chief in Washington) and
scientists (Patrick Soon-Shiong, a billionaire cancer doctor).

But despite that appearance of diversity, Mr. Trump's choices so far for
national security posts seem to show a preference for older white men with
similar hard-line views on immigration, the military and terrorism. Most of the
leading candidates for other jobs appear to be white men, as well, including Mr.
Giuliani, whose own business activities have faced scrutiny.

If he is nominated as secretary of state, Mr. Giuliani would face questions over
his security firm's ties to the government of Qatar and the speeches he gave to
an Iranian exile opposition group that until 2012 was on the State Department's
list of foreign terrorist organizations.

Asked whether he was concerned about Mr. Giuliani's business dealings, Mr. Trump
said, "No, not at all."

Mr. Trump, as he used his golf resort as the backdrop for his official
activities, gave no indication that he was concerned about news reports over the
weekend that he had held meetings last week with three Indian business partners
even as he was starting to assemble his administration.

The very public process - CNN trained a camera on the golf club's wooden front
door throughout the day on Sunday - has borne few similarities to attempts by
Mr. Trump's predecessors to project an image of careful, private vetting of
cabinet-level hopefuls.

Officials running President Obama's transition in late 2008 took pains to keep
under wraps his plans to select Hillary Clinton for secretary of state, and they
orchestrated a secret meeting at the firehouse at Reagan National Airport to
discuss keeping Robert M. Gates as defense secretary.

But for Mr. Trump and his aides, many of whom have long rejected the capital's
customs, such traditions are best discarded.

"This has been a year and election cycle where the normal conventions and past
history has been challenged," said Kevin Madden, a Republican strategist whose
longtime boss, Mr. Romney, discussed the secretary of state post with Mr. Trump.

"Why would the transition and the first few months of the administration be any
different?" Mr. Madden said. "Trump does things Trump's way."

After each interview, Mr. Trump, dressed in a suit and tie, emerged from the
club next to an American flag to see the candidates off to their sport-utility
vehicles and once again speak with reporters.

"Tremendous talent - we're seeing tremendous talent," Mr. Trump said on
Saturday. "People that, as I say, we will 'make America great again.' These are
really great people. These are really, really talented people."

By the evening, however, Mr. Trump had announced no appointments, leaving
reporters waiting on the cold, gusty day to speculate about Mr. Trump's brief
comments.

"We made a couple of deals," he said as his weekend of interviews drew to a
close.

Mr. Giuliani is apparently in competition with several others for the secretary
of state position, including David H. Petraeus, the retired four-star general
who served as Mr. Obama's C.I.A. director before leaving amid revelations that
he had provided classified information to a woman with whom he was having an
affair.

Mr. Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee and one of Mr. Trump's
fiercest critics during the 2016 campaign, met with the president-elect on
Saturday. If he becomes secretary of state, he could be a moderating influence
on the hard-liners Mr. Trump has chosen for attorney general, national security
adviser and C.I.A. director.

"I can say that Governor Romney is under active and serious consideration to
serve as secretary of state of the United States," Vice President-elect Mike
Pence said Sunday on CBS's "Face the Nation" program.

Mr. Trump's consideration of General Mattis, who is widely respected throughout
the military, could also signal an effort to ease concerns among members of the
Washington establishment about the shape of his cabinet.

General Mattis, who led the First Marine Division during the 2003 invasion of
Iraq to topple Saddam Hussein, later commanded American troops during the
hard-fought battle to retake Falluja from Sunni insurgents in 2004. But his
argument for a tougher military posture against Iran at times clashed with the
views of Mr. Obama and his national security team. General Mattis, who would be
the first former ranking general to become defense secretary since George
Marshall in the early 1950s, would need a congressional waiver to take office
because federal law stipulates that the Pentagon chief be out of uniform for
seven years. General Mattis retired from the Marines in 2013.

As Mr. Trump moves to complete his national security team, he may soon turn his
attention to domestic affairs. Aides have said members of the transition
effort's economic and domestic policy teams will fan out to meet with agency
officials starting on Monday.

Mr. Obama, asked Sunday at a summit meeting in Lima, Peru, about stances Mr.
Trump has taken that align with the views of his nascent national security team,
said: "I can't guarantee that the president-elect won't pursue some of the
positions that he's taken. But what I can guarantee is that reality will force
him to adjust how he approaches many of these issues. That's just the way this
office works."

Mr. Trump also continued his practice of early-morning bursts on Twitter this
weekend. Before attending church with Mr. Pence, Mr. Trump condemned the cast of
"Hamilton" for its onstage appeal on Friday night to the vice president-elect -
who was in the audience - to uphold the rights of a "diverse America."

"The cast and producers of 'Hamilton,' which I hear is highly overrated, should
immediately apologize to Mike Pence for their terrible behavior," Mr. Trump
wrote.

In another Twitter post, the president-elect expressed his disapproval of
"Saturday Night Live," calling it a "totally one-sided, biased show - nothing
funny at all." Mr. Trump was portrayed on the show as being overwhelmed by the
prospect of being president.

Even as Mr. Trump bemoaned the actions of the cast of "Hamilton," a smash hit on
Broadway, Mr. Pence said on Sunday morning that he was not offended or bothered.
In an appearance on "Fox News Sunday," Mr. Pence said he would "leave it to
others" to decide whether the theater was an appropriate place for a political
message.

"'Hamilton' is just an incredible production and just incredibly talented
people," Mr. Pence said. "It was a real joy to be there."

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage onFacebook
andTwitter, and sign up for theFirst Draft politics newsletter.

Michael S. Schmidt reported from Bedminster, and Michael D. Shear from
Washington. Nicholas Fandos and Mark Landler contributed reporting from
Washington.

PHOTOS: President-elect Donald J. Trump greeted contenders on Sunday. (A1);
President-elect Donald J. Trump with Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York
mayor, on Sunday. Mr. Giuliani is apparently in competition with several others
for the secretary of state position, and Mr. Trump said he was "not at all"
concerned about Mr. Giuliani's business dealings, which have come under
scrutiny. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

Related Articles


     ·    Donald Trump Meeting Suggests He Is Keeping Up His Business Ties
     ·    Donald Trump Agrees to Pay $25 Million in Trump University Settlement
     ·    The Trump Transition
     ·    Trump Says Transition's Going 'Smoothly,' Disputing Disarray Reports
     ·    Firings and Discord Put Trump Transition Team in a State of Disarray


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             664 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Alec Baldwin Returns to 'S.N.L.' as President-Elect Trump

BYLINE: ANDREW R. CHOW

SECTION: ARTS; television

LENGTH: 484 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Baldwin played a stunned and unprepared president-elect in the
cold open of "Saturday Night Live."


Alec Baldwin's return to "Saturday Night Live" this weekend prompted another
fiery response from President-elect Donald J. Trump on Twitter.

I watched parts of @nbcsnl Saturday Night Live last night. It is a totally
one-sided, biased show - nothing funny at all. Equal time for us? - Donald J.
Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 20, 2016

The episode's cold open features Mr. Baldwin portraying Mr. Trump as stunned and
unprepared for the reality of being president. In the skit, he meets with
various figures, including Kate McKinnon's Kellyanne Conway, a campaign staffer
from coal country and a general, who is eager to hear about the
president-elect's secret plan to defeat ISIS. After the general leaves, Mr.
Trump promptly begins searching online for "What is Isis?" Mr. Trump proceeds to
renege on assorted campaign promises, including repealing Obamacare, deporting
illegal immigrants and creating coal-mining jobs.

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

Jason Sudeikis, a former cast member now starring in an Off Broadway production
of "Dead Poets Society," appeared as Mitt Romney, and Beck Bennett played Vice
President-elect Mike Pence, who was confronted by the "Hamilton" cast on Friday.
In the sketch, Mr. Trump asks him about attending that Broadway show and Mr.
Pence responds evenhandedly, "It was good; I got a free lecture."

Early Sunday morning, Mr. Trump took to Twitter to first double down on his
criticism of "Hamilton," before turning his attention to "Saturday Night Live."

The cast and producers of Hamilton, which I hear is highly overrated, should
immediately apologize to Mike Pence for their terrible behavior - Donald J.
Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 20, 2016

The "Saturday Night Live" episode was hosted by the former cast member Kristen
Wiig, and did not shy away from political commentary. (Last week's episode,
hosted by Dave Chappelle, skipped an overly political cold open in favor of Kate
McKinnon dressed as Hillary Clinton singing Leonard Cohen's "Hallelujah.") One
skit served as an advertisement for the liberal bubble, with the tagline: "In
here, it's like the election never happened." Another skit revealed outraged CNN
anchors to be repetitive, malfunctioning androids from HBO's "Westworld."

And on "Weekend Update," Michael Che and Colin Jost discussed the election and
questioned Mr. Trump's desire to be president. Mr. Che said: "He just liked the
chase. He enjoyed wooing America for 18 months."

Later on Sunday, Mr. Baldwin responded to Mr. Trump through his foundation's
Twitter account, and hinted that he would continue to perform as Mr. Trump on
the show.

...@realDonaldTrump Equal time?Election is over. There is no more equal time.
Now u try 2 b Pres + ppl respond. That's pretty much it. - ABFoundation
(@ABFalecbaldwin) November 20, 2016

@realDonaldTrump I could go on. You want more advice, call me.I'll be at SNL. -
ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) November 20, 2016

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             665 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump and the Bieber Doctrine;
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: IVAN KRASTEV

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 995 words



HIGHLIGHT: The new American foreign policy seems to be to tell allies they
"should go and love yourself."


Sofia, Bulgaria - It seems no matter what happens with American politics, the
19th-century French thinker Alexis de Tocqueville has something to say about it.
In his classic "Democracy in America," he suggested that democratic politics was
in need of drama; as an election nears, "intrigues become more active, agitation
more lively and more widespread. The entire nation falls into a feverish state."
But, once the election has passed, "everything becomes calm, and the river, one
moment overflowed, returns peacefully to its bed."

We can all agree that the first part describes exactly what happened in 2016 -
because, whatever we think about this particular race, it was merely a
hyperbolic version of the usual democratic process. During an election period,
candidates frame the normal as catastrophic while promising that all calamities
can somehow be overcome. Democratic politics might be interpreted as a
nationwide therapy session in which voters are confronted with their worst
nightmares - demographic collapse, economic meltdown, environmental disaster, a
new war - but are persuaded that they have the power to stave off the
devastation.

When the elections are over, the world magically returns to its status quo. And
even if it doesn't, people will do their best to believe otherwise. Following
the initial shock of Donald J. Trump's victory, both friends and foes will
downgrade the significance of what has transpired. The same people who portrayed
a Trump victory as apocalyptic will come to see it as business as usual.

The risk is that, this time, we're not returning to business as usual.
Irrespective of the policies that the president-elect will adopt, Mr. Trump's
victory will have profound political repercussions in the United States and
abroad. It is a global regime change. Indeed, the fall of the Berlin Wall might
be a useful analogue for the present moment: Nov. 9, 2016, could become no less
consequential than Nov. 9, 1989. And in their panic and disorientation, liberal
elites now are not much different from Communist elites then.

The significance of Mr. Trump's victory goes far beyond the defeat of Hillary
Clinton. Mr. Trump has buried the liberal narrative of what happened after the
Cold War. A period that only yesterday was hailed as the liberation of peoples
is now understood as the liberation of the elites, and the unleashing of chaotic
world forces that only an American strongman can contain. Even if Trump
supporters become disillusioned with the president-elect and his policies, his
rejection won't inspire a return to the rhetoric or the policies of the 1990s.

In the same way that Mikhail Gorbachev's efforts to reform the Communist system
upended the assumptions on which his system was based, Mr. Trump's victory makes
what was common sense yesterday unintelligible today. Who will stand ready to
claim that globalization still connotes freedom and prosperity for all and that
democracy means respect for minority rights when Americans - in the eyes of the
world the greatest beneficiaries of globalization and traditional advocates of
human rights - voted unambiguously that the system is broken?

Trump's victory is also a powerful statement that anti-populism, the attempt of
elites to play on people's anxieties of a reckless and unpredictable
populist-inspired reality, is no longer the way to win elections. In fact, the
word "elite" today may be the dirtiest word in the popular vocabulary.

His victory makes clear that we live in a moment when the fear of an uncertain
future is a weaker mobilizing force than a disgust with the present. It signals
that threatened majorities have emerged as a major force in Western democratic
politics. These majorities fear that foreigners are taking over their countries
and threatening their way of life, and they are convinced that the current
crisis is brought on by a conspiracy between cosmopolitan-minded elites and
tribal-minded immigrants.

The Trump effect will be felt differently around the world, but its impact may
be most powerful in Europe. Mr. Trump's victory not only emboldens populist
leaders and parties in Europe; it puts the future of the European Union in
question. Since World War II, when it comes to security, Europe has been
America's protectorate; no longer does that seem to be the case.

In 1989, Mr. Gorbachev announced his Sinatra Doctrine, the idea that every
country in the Soviet bloc could go its own way and that Moscow would refrain
from intervention. Over the course of his campaign Mr. Trump was maddeningly
vague about concrete policies, but he did suggest what I might call the "Bieber
Doctrine" - that America would no longer see its allies' security problems as
its own. "And if you think that I'm still holdin' on to something," Justin
Bieber sings, "You should go and love yourself."

"Go and love yourself" is essentially Mr. Trump's message to his European
allies. The preservation of the European Union is no longer the priority nor the
objective of American foreign policy.

Moreover, the irony of Mr. Trump's effect on global politics is that his victory
has liberated the world from the need to love, envy or hate America. It was
President Obama who dared to suggest that America is not exceptional, but it is
the election of Mr. Trump that convinced the world that America's democracy is
not different from ours. It can also be chaotic and dangerous.

It's reported that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia instructed his defense
minister, Sergei K. Shoigu, that if he wanted to understand how America worked,
the only thing he needed to do was watch the Netflix series "House of Cards."
The American president-elect would most likely agree. Which means, perhaps, that
de Tocqueville is no longer required reading on American politics. Instead, just
watch Frank Underwood.

Ivan Krastev is the chairman of the Center for Liberal Strategies, a permanent
fellow at the Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna and a contributing opinion
writer.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             666 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Many in Milwaukee Neighborhood Didn't Vote - and Don't Regret It

BYLINE: SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1663 words



HIGHLIGHT: As Democrats pick through the wreckage of the campaign, one lesson is
clear: The election was notable as much for the people who did not show up, as
for those who did.


Correction Appended

MILWAUKEE - Four barbers and a firefighter were pondering their future under a
Trump presidency at the Upper Cutz barbershop last week.

"We got to figure this out," said Cedric Fleming, one of the barbers. "We got a
gangster in the chair now," he said, referring to President-elect Donald J.
Trump.

They admitted that they could not complain too much: Only two of them had voted.
But there were no regrets.

"I don't feel bad," Mr. Fleming said, trimming a mustache. "Milwaukee is tired.
Both of them were terrible. They never do anything for us anyway."

As Democrats pick through the wreckage of the campaign, one lesson is clear: The
election was notable as much for the people who did not show up, as for those
who did. Nationally, about half of eligible voters did not cast ballots.

Wisconsin, a state that Hillary Clinton had assumed she would win, historically
boasts one of the nation's highest rates of voter participation; this year's
68.3 percent turnout was the fifth best among the 50 states. But by local
standards, it was a disappointment, the lowest turnout in 16 years. And those
no-shows were important. Mr. Trump won the state by just 27,000 voters.

Milwaukee's lowest-income neighborhoods offer one explanation for the turnout
figures. Of the city's 15 council districts, the decline in turnout from 2012 to
2016 in the five poorest was consistently much greater than the drop seen in
more prosperous areas - accounting for half of the overall decline in turnout
citywide.

The biggest drop was here in District 15, a stretch of fading wooden homes,
sandwich shops and fast-food restaurants that is 84 percent black. In this
district, voter turnout declined by 19.5 percent from 2012 figures, according to
Neil Albrecht, executive director of the City of Milwaukee Election Commission.
It is home to some of Milwaukee's poorest residents and, according to a 2016
documentary, "Milwaukee 53206," has one of the nation's highest per-capita
incarceration rates.

At Upper Cutz, a bustling barbershop in a green-trimmed wooden house, talk of
politics inevitably comes back to one man: Barack Obama. Mr. Obama's elections
infused many here with a feeling of connection to national politics they had
never before experienced. But their lives have not gotten appreciably better,
and sourness has set in.

"We went to the beach," said Maanaan Sabir, 38, owner of the Juice Kitchen, a
brightly painted shop a few blocks down West North Avenue, using a metaphor to
describe the emotion after Mr. Obama's election. "And then eight years
happened."

All four barbers had voted for Mr. Obama. But only two could muster the
enthusiasm to vote this time. And even then, it was a sort of protest. One wrote
in Mrs. Clinton's Democratic opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. The
other wrote in himself.

"I'm so numb," said Jahn Toney, 45, who had written in Mr. Sanders. He said no
president in his lifetime had done anything to improve the lives of black
people, including Mr. Obama, whom he voted for twice. "It's like I should have
known this would happen. We're worse off than before."

But Mr. Obama did do something important: "He did give black people something to
aspire to. That's a lot. I'm happy my son was able to see a black president."

Mr. Fleming, 47, who has been trimming hair, beards and mustaches for 30 years,
had hoped his small business would get easier to run. But it hasn't.

"Give us loans, or a 401(k)," he said, trimming the mustache of Steve Stricklin,
a firefighter from the neighborhood. His biggest issue was health insurance. Mr.
Fleming lost his coverage after his divorce three years ago and has struggled to
find a policy he could afford. He finally found one, which starts Monday but
costs too much at $300 a month.

"Ain't none of this been working," he said. He did not vote.

Mr. Albrecht, of the election commission, said other factors contributed to the
decline in turnout. This was the first general election under new state laws
that required voters to produce an approved photo ID card, and that stiffened
the requirements for new voters to prove their residence. This was particularly
onerous for the poor, who move often.

Mr. Albrecht said he believed this change had cost several thousand people in
the city their vote.

"To me that's very significant," he said. "It takes away from the fairness and
integrity of the election."

Although two federal district courts had ruled that the photo ID law
discriminated against African-Americans, who disproportionately lack the
approved IDs, the law was applied on Election Day after an appeals court stayed
one of the decisions. Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican who backed the laws, has
said they have no impact on voter participation, and Mr. Albrecht allowed that
their effect on Milwaukee's turnout would not have erased Mr. Trump's victory in
the state.

Perhaps the biggest drags on voter turnout in Milwaukee, as in the rest of the
country, were the candidates themselves. To some, it was like having to choose
between broccoli and liver.

"I felt cornered," said Ian Pfeiffer, 25, who works the grill at Jake's
Delicatessen and says he did not vote. "We were stuck between Trump and Hillary.
They really left us with no choice."

Mr. Pfeiffer's grandmother, an avid supporter of Mrs. Clinton, spent months
trying to convince him to vote for her. But he could not get over his revulsion
at what he saw as trust issues related to the Clinton Foundation. (Mr.
Pfeiffer's grandfather pushed him toward Mr. Trump, but he found him even less
appealing.)

He thought Oprah Winfrey would be a good candidate.

"Hey, would you vote for Oprah Winfrey?" he said in a loud voice to a line of
customers.

"Yeah, I'd vote for her," said Erin Miles, 41, a financial services worker
waiting for her sandwich. "She has a level head and decision-making skills."

Few of the men and women interviewed on West North Street last week had voted
for Mr. Trump, though many said they admired him. (He spoke his mind. He was
rich.)

"If I would have voted, I would have voted for him," said Andre Frierson, 40, a
security guard working the evening shift at Jake's. "From a business
perspective, I loved him."

As for Mrs. Clinton, "other countries probably wouldn't have respected us
because we had a woman running the country," he said.

One exception was Justin Babar, who said he voted for Mr. Trump as a protest
against Mrs. Clinton. He blamed her husband's policies for putting him in prison
for 20 years.

As for the claims of racism that have dogged Mr. Trump, Mr. Babar wasn't so
worried. "It's better than smiling to my face but going behind closed doors and
voting against our kids," he said.

Tarvus Hawthorne, 45, a program coordinator at a local nonprofit, agreed.

"He was real, unlike a lot of liberal Democrats who are just as racist" but keep
it hidden, he said, his jaw slathered with shaving cream. "You can reason with
them all day long, but they think they know it all. They want to have control.
That they know what's best for 'those people.'"

Still, he voted for Mrs. Clinton, as did many others here.

Upper Cutz gets busier as the day wears on. Children come in after school.
Danielle Rogers, Mr. Toney's sister, stopped by the barbershop for a visit.
Everybody agreed they would miss Mr. Obama.

Ms. Rogers said Mr. Obama had aged a lot. "It's like having a bunch of bad
kids," she said. "He's probably saying: 'I'm done. Take them back to their
mama's house.'"

Mr. Fleming was trying to imagine Mr. Trump as president.

"The White House is going to be the penthouse!" he said, adding that Mr. Trump
would be like Al Pacino in "Scarface," with parties in the mansion and exotic
animals roaming around the grounds. "If he comes home and finds his wife
cheating on him, he could just say, 'Let's go to war!'"

They were laughing. But they were also worried.

"He's going to mess with us on some racist level," said Otis Jackson, 45, a
barber who did not vote. "He's already appointed a known racist," he said,
referring to Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump's chief strategist and the former head
of Breitbart News, which has been denounced as a white nationalist hate site.

With so many people sitting in his chair over the years, Mr. Fleming has
developed a keen sense of where society is headed. But now he is stumped.

"This was a weird election," he said, holding a set of clippers and looking
pensive. "You can't tell what's on people's minds. There are less cars out
there. No one wants to come out. No one knows what comes next."

He added, "Hell, Trump doesn't even know."

Follow The New York Times's politics and Washington coverage onFacebook
andTwitter, and sign up for theFirst Draft politics newsletter.

Michael Wines contributed reporting from New York.


Correction: November 23, 2016, Wednesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
Monday about a voting district in Milwaukee where many residents did not vote
misstated the year of release for the documentary "Milwaukee 53206," which
examined problems in the same neighborhood. It was 2016, not 2015. The article
also described incorrectly the turnout on Election Day. Nationally, about half
of the eligible voters did not cast ballots, not half of registered voters.

PHOTOS: Justin Babar, center, at Upper Cutz, a barbershop in District 15 in
Milwaukee. While he said he voted for Donald J. Trump, many people in the
neighborhood did not cast ballots.; Ian Pfeiffer, a cook at Jake's Delicatessen,
did not vote. "We were stuck between Trump and Hillary," he said. (A11); Maanaan
Sabir, the owner of the Juice Kitchen, said Barack Obama's election was like
going "to the beach," but then, he said, "eight years happened." (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
BEN BREWER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

Related Articles


     ·    Donald Trump and the U.N.: Signs of Clashing Views on Many Issues
     ·    Donald Trump's Art of the New Deal?
     ·    White Nationalists Celebrate 'an Awakening' After Donald Trump's
          Victory
     ·    Millions on Election Day Make a Different Decision: Not Voting


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             667 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 20, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

As American as Apple Pie? The Rural Vote's Disproportionate Slice of Power;
Political Calculus

BYLINE: EMILY BADGER

SECTION: UPSHOT

LENGTH: 1838 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rural America, even as it decries its economic weakness, has retained
electoral strength beyond its numbers.


Correction Appended

In 1920, for the first time, the Census Bureau counted more people living in
urbanized America than in the countryside. This hasn't been a rural nation ever
since.

Yet the idea of Thomas Jefferson's agrarian America has receded slowly despite
demographic change. We still romanticize the family farm, though relatively few
of them exist anymore. We view even suburbia in pastoral terms - the "crabgrass
frontier," as the historian Kenneth T. Jackson put it. And, as the recent
Electoral College results make clear, we still live with political institutions
that have baked in a distinctly pro-rural bias, by design.

The Democratic candidate for president has now won the popular vote in six of
the last seven elections. But in part because the system empowers rural states,
for the second time in that span, the candidate who garnered the most votes will
not be president.

Rural America, even as it laments its economic weakness, retains vastly
disproportionate electoral strength. Rural voters were able to nudge Donald J.
Trump to power despite Hillary Clinton's large margins in cities like New York.
In a House of Representatives that structurally disadvantages Democrats because
of their tight urban clustering, rural voters helped Republicans hold their
cushion. In the Senate, the least populous states are now more overrepresented
than ever before. And the growing unity of rural Americans as a voting bloc has
converted the rural bias in national politics into a potent Republican
advantage.

"If you're talking about a political system that skews rural, that's not as
important if there isn't a major cleavage between rural and urban voting
behavior," said Frances Lee, a professor of government and politics at the
University of Maryland. "But urban and rural voting behavior is so starkly
different now so that this has major political consequences for who has power.

"And it's not just in terms of policy outcomes," she continued. "This
pervasively advantages Republicans in maintaining control of the U.S. national
government."

The Electoral College is just one example of how an increasingly urban country
has inherited the political structures of a rural past. Today, states containing
just 17 percent of the American population, a historic low, can theoretically
elect a Senate majority, Dr. Lee said. The bias also shapes the House of
Representatives.

It exists, as a result, in the formulas that determine where highway funds are
spent or who gets Homeland Security dollars. It exists in state capitols, where
bills preferred by urban delegations have been much more likely tobe rejected.

Today, the influence of rural voters also evokes deeply rooted ideals about who
should have power in America. Jefferson and James Madison argued that the
strength of the nation would always derive from its agrarian soil.

"They had this vision of what they called the 'yeoman farmer': this independent,
free-standing person who owed nothing to anybody, who didn't receive any
payments from the government, who didn't live by a wage, but who could support
himself and his family on a farm growing everything they needed - and that these
were the people who were going to be the backbone of democracy," said Gerald
Gamm, a political scientist at the University of Rochester, describing what
could be the forefathers of the rural voters who tilted this year's election.

When the framers of the Constitution were still debating the shape of
institutions we have today, 95 percent of America was rural, as the 1790 census
classified the population. The Connecticut Compromise at the time created the
Senate: one chamber granting equal voice to every state to counterbalance the
House, where more populous states spoke louder.

And they made sure the compromise stuck. Today, equal state representation in
the Senate is the only provision in the Constitution that remains singled out
for protection from the amendment process; no state can lose its full complement
of senators without its permission.

But even as a deliberately undemocratic body, the Senate has slipped further out
of alignment with the American population over time.

The Senate hasn't simply favored sparsely populated states; politicians in
Washington created sparsely populated states to leverage the Senate's skewed
power.

"When we talk about small-state bias, all of that was an intentional policy
choice," said Jowei Chen, a political scientist at the University of Michigan.
Republicans in Congress passed the 1862 Homestead Act, offering free land to
settlers who would move to territories that would eventually become states -
creating more Senate seats and Electoral College votes for a Republican Party
eager to keep government control away from Southern Democrats. They even managed
to divide the Dakota Territory into two states, worth twice the political power.

As the Plains later depopulated and American cities, then suburbs, swelled, the
Senate became even more unrepresentative.

Jeffersonian suspicion of big cities also appears in the sites of state
capitals: Albany and not New York; Jefferson City and not St. Louis; Springfield
and not Chicago. Political scientists at the University of California, Davis,
have found that most state capitals were located near what was then the
population centroid of each state - typically closer to the geographical center
of the state, and not the place where the most people already lived, breaking
with how much of the world sited its capitals.

The state legislatures there also grew significantly less representative as
America urbanized. In 1961, when lawyers in Tennessee brought what would be a
seminal case before the Supreme Court challenging the practice, the state
legislature had not reapportioned its districts to reflect population change in
60 years. Maryland was still using districts drawn in 1867.

Even states that had constitutions requiring equal population districts were
ignoring them. Florida, Georgia and New Mexico gave small counties 100 times the
voting power of the most populous ones. Decades ago in California, Amador County
(population 14,294) had the same representation in the state's Senate as Los
Angeles County (with a population over six million).

"They justified it because that was a cultural norm; it was just the way things
were," said Stephen Ansolabehere, a Harvard professor of government. Rural
legislators had no incentive to change a system that favored them. "They just
let it keep getting worse. You're in power. Why change?"

By the mid-20th century, no state approximated majority rule. America at the
time, Dr. Ansolabehere and James M. Snyder Jr. wrote in their book "The End of
Inequality," had some of the most unequal representation in the world. A series
of Supreme Court cases beginning with that Tennessee complaint upended this
system and established the standard that equal representation means "one person,
one vote." Not one town, one vote. Or one county, one senator. Only the United
States Senate, protected by the Constitution, remained unchanged.

Still, the House retains a rural bias. Republican voters are more efficiently
distributed across the country than Democrats, who are concentrated in cities.
That means that even when Democrats win 50 percent of voters nationwide, they
invariably hold fewer than 50 percent of House seats, regardless of partisan
gerrymandering.

The Electoral College then allocates votes according to a state's congressional
delegation: Wyoming (with one House representative and two senators) gets three
votes; California (53 representatives and two senators) gets 55. Those two
senators effectively give Wyoming three times more power in the Electoral
College than its population would suggest. Apply the same math to California and
it would have 159 Electoral College votes. And the entire state of Wyoming
already has fewer residents than the average California congressional district.

In Washington, these imbalances directly influence who gets what, through
small-state minimums (no state can receive below a certain share of education
funding) and through formulas that privilege rural states (early road spending
was doled out in part by land area and not road use).

There are policy reasons that the country might want to disproportionately spend
resources on places with few people. Repairing an interstate highway in rural
Oklahoma keeps national commerce flowing. And when the private market won't
build essential infrastructure, public investments like the New Deal's rural
electrification help fight poverty.

But even when you control for policy need, Dr. Lee's research has found that a
significant rural bias in resources persists. You can see it in Homeland
Security funding that gave Wyoming, for example, seven times as much money per
capita as New York after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. You can see it in
Alaska's proposed "bridge to nowhere."

"In that case," Dr. Ansolabehere said, "Alaska has so much disproportionate
power in the negotiation over funds that in order for California to get some,
Alaska gets a lot - to the point of not knowing what to spend the money on."

These calculations also mean that populous states subsidize less populous ones,
which receive more resources than the tax dollars they send to Washington.

The challenge for rural voters now is that their electoral strength, and even
these funding formulas, have not translated into policies that have fixed the
deep economic problems they face, from high unemployment to declining wages. And
it's unclear how Mr. Trump will do that for them, either - even if his major
infrastructure proposal comes to pass and helps rebuild their roads.

If he can't, rural voters may stray from his party again. In that future, the
rural bias in American politics would persist. But Democrats might yet have a
chance to blunt its effects.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.


Correction: November 24, 2016, Thursday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An Upshot
article on Monday about the disproportionate voting power of rural states
referred incorrectly to the Constitution's provision for equal state
representation in the Senate, the only provision that remains singled out for
protection from the amendment process. The provision may be amended, but only
with the consent of any state whose representation would be reduced. It is not
impossible for the provision to be amended.

PHOTOS: A crowded Coney Island beach in 1923. Tight urban clustering can dilute
the power of a vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT SENNECKE/ULLSTEIN BILD, VIA GETTY
IMAGES) (A11); Census taking in the Dakotas in the 1880s. The Dakota Territory
became two states, worth twice the political power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY D.F. BARRY,
VIA LIBRARY OF CONGRESS) (A15)

Related Articles


     ·    The Election Highlighted a Growing Rural-Urban Split
     ·    Why Republicans Don't Even Try to Win Cities Anymore
     ·    Actually, Many 'Inner Cities' Are Doing Great


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             668 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Reince Priebus, Normalizer in Chief;
Feature

BYLINE: MARK LEIBOVICH

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 2668 words



HIGHLIGHT: As Trump's new chief of staff, the lifelong G.O.P. loyalist will have
to guide an outsider president and his band of radicals through a city they've
pledged to upend.


Ten days removed from the still-fresh shock of Donald Trump's election, around
lunchtime on a Friday, I navigated the jagged lines of steel barriers, police
officers and Secret Service battalions with big dogs and big guns surrounding
Trump Tower. The glass-and-marble shopping mall, tourist trap and TV set had
been transformed into the unlikely plotting ground for the nation's immediate
future. It was anybody's guess what was taking shape inside the gilded bunkers.
Clots of media people, passers-by and protesters crowded the lobby and nearby
streets for the occasional clue, or at least glimpses of Marla Maples and Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. Kellyanne Conway posed for a selfie with a few
lucky cops.

The locus of the scene was a bank of elevators ferrying staff, cabinet
candidates and the competing maestros of the Trump transition to and from
various nerve centers over several floors. Every time a bell sounded, announcing
the opening of an elevator door, lobby heads would bob expectantly. "Is that
what Jeff Sessions looks like?" I heard a photographer ask (no, it is not, and
it was not). No doubt a host of key Trump orchestrators and luminary actors were
making ample use of auxiliary entrances and exits, sneaking in and out.

New rumors, predictions and potential firestorms seemed to materialize every
hour. The Kremlinology of the incoming White House is shaping up as knotty, to
say the least. Not one of Trump's initial high-level hires has any experience
working in a White House. How will they work with the volatile real-estate and
reality-show maven in the Oval Office? With his proclivity to make decisions
based on the last person he speaks to? With his children playing an uncertain
role, his son-in-law a possibly ever-present whisperer? How will it all work
with Trump's senior adviser Steve Bannon, former head of Breitbart News, who has
a long rap sheet of racial, ethnic and sexist affronts and a long-running war on
Washington Republicans?

I had gone to Trump Tower to see Reince Priebus, the Republican National
Committee chairman, whom Trump named as his chief of staff five days after his
election, in the same release in which Bannon was named chief strategist and
senior counselor. Bannon was mentioned first, for Kremlinologists scoring at
home, and his appointment has consumed the bulk of the attention, given his
hyperprovocative ways. But Priebus, in a sense, filled a more exotic role. He
would be the chief establishment ambassador for a president whose brief and
meteoric political career has been predicated on blowing that establishment up.
A generous reading is that Trump is trying to foster a yin-yang tension between
his top deputies, who will represent his own diametrically opposed impulses
(Bannon the bomb-throwing devil on one shoulder, Priebus the peacemaking angel
on the other). The simpler reading is that Trump hasn't thought that much about
this and is simply trying to reward and surround himself with people he feels
served him well in the campaign.

"It's almost like a puzzle mystery," Priebus told me last summer. I don't recall
what we were talking about, but Priebus had a knack for homespun Wisconsin logic
and, particularly, throwaway lines that would stick with me. I kept thinking of
the puzzle mysteries that were playing out up and down Trump Tower, even though
I showed up Friday without an appointment with Priebus and was confined to the
lobby watching tourists ride up and down its now-famous escalators.

Priebus and I started talking last spring, as I was undertaking an article for
this magazine about the seemingly fracturing state of the Republican Party. We
kept in touch during the campaign, drank the occasional Miller High Life in his
office and exchanged the sporadic email. Priebus was constantly going on TV
saying he was certain Trump would win, even though he could read polls and
precedents like everyone else. Still, he carried on as the chief carrier of
Trump's choppy water because that's what a party chairman does: He smiles and
spins and swallows his best-laid plans and audibles in the name of getting his
nominee to the finish line. In a sense, Priebus, who squired his future wife to
a local G.O.P. banquet on their first date, was the purest form of "political
hack" that Trump would rail against as he bulldozed the G.O.P.

For his efforts during the campaign, Priebus gained the respect and gratitude of
Trump loyalists - especially the fiercest loyalist, Donald J. Trump himself. He
also won derision and ridicule. He was the subject of multiple stories in The
Onion ("Reince Priebus Smiles, Shakes Head While Flipping Through Old Briefing
on G.O.P.'s Plans for 2016"). His spirited TV defenses of Trump's indefensible
behavior drew him comparisons to "Baghdad Bob" (Muhammad Said al-Sahhaf), Saddam
Hussein's chief propagandist during the early months of the Iraq war, whose
dubious predictions of imminent victory despite growing devastation all around
made him an international laughingstock.

Long before Trump's victory, back when it seemed like a long shot, I asked
Priebus whether he would consider taking a job in a Trump administration - maybe
a plum ambassadorship to somewhere. "Yes," he said. "Wisconsin." It was a
throwaway answer to a throwaway question, which was laughably hypothetical
anyway. But I never had a sense he had thought that much about a Trump
administration job, besides possibly staying on as R.N.C. chairman whether or
not the Donald prevailed.

For all his well-honed sheepishness, Priebus's "just a kid from Kenosha, Wisc."
shtick belies a penchant for main stages, big-ticket rooms and high-level
company. No shortage of Reince Priebus photos hang on the walls of the R.N.C.'s
headquarters on Capitol Hill. He can be a little star-struck. He travels far and
often to appear with candidates and party dignitaries at events where his
presence is not necessarily required. Priebus was giddy when I spoke to him last
spring as he prepared to attend a party for Time's "100 most influential people"
at Lincoln Center. We were on the phone, him walking through the lobby of the
J.W. Marriott after a packed day of fund-raising. He sounded almost out of
breath, less from exhaustion than what seemed like pure excitement. He told me
how stoked he was to meet the golfer Jordan Spieth and the
pro-wrestler-turned-actor the Rock. "Those are my top two," Priebus said,
especially the Rock. "I was a big pro-wrestling fan back in the day," he added,
noting his childhood admiration for Hulk Hogan and Mad Dog Vachon.

"Growing up in Kenosha, Wisc., being named to the Top 100 list is a pretty cool
thing," Priebus told me. At this point, I reminded him that no national party
chairman would ever be named to the Top 100 except in extraordinary
circumstances like these - and these were not particularly enviable ones.

The White House chief of staff's post is arguably the most grueling job in
Washington. It would be a burnout caldron under even the most predictable and
disciplined of presidents. The average tenure of a White House chief of staff is
about two years. Chief-of-staff jobs are so synonymous with thanklessness that a
whole White House mythology surrounds them. "A good chief of staff is seldom
popular," Richard Nixon wrote in his 1990 memoir. "He must see that his chief
gets the credit for the administration's successes and must take the heat for
its failures, even when they are not his fault. ... He sometimes finds he
doesn't have many friends or supporters. Some may well call him just a prat
boy."

Some may call Priebus worse than that, and maybe already have. "Eat rocks" is an
expression I've heard Priebus use a few times. It refers to being game to do
what is needed: swallowing pride and taking one (or one thousand) for the team.
If serving as R.N.C. chairman in 2016 has been the definition of eating rocks,
Priebus's next gig could go down even harder. "It's 24-7 and never stops," says
Andy Card of the job he held in George W. Bush's White House for more than five
years, making him the second-longest-serving chief of staff in history. "My only
area of angst on Priebus is that he has young children," Card added, referring
to Priebus's son and daughter. Card has a few other concerns, one of which he
says presented itself as soon as Trump "jumped all over" Megyn Kelly in the
first Republican primary debate last year. "I'm thinking he would be a very hard
president to work for if he doesn't accept people speaking candidly to him."

Card, who remains close to the Bush family and supported Jeb Bush for president,
said the most important part of being a chief of staff is remembering that the
"staff" part is far more important than the "chief" part. The president is by
far his most important client. "I know of one chief of staff who failed because
he was used to being a principal," says Beth Myers, who served as Mitt Romney's
chief of staff during his four years as governor of Massachusetts. Priebus may
not have that problem; he has been described with that most anodyne term for a
Washington manager, the "consensus-builder." But the White House chief of staff
job is not so much about building consensus, Card told me. It's all about
serving the only principal who matters. "Chief of staff is the only job in
Washington that really is defined by what the president's idiosyncrasies are,"
Card says. "Are they a morning person or an evening person? Disciplined or not?
Do they suffer fools kindly or not?"

Priebus and the future president-elect had their dicey stretches, but their
relationship grew as the campaign wore on. "Trump told me over and over again,
'I trust Reince, I trust him,' " Priebus felt a need to tell me one day in his
office last spring. They have both proved a lot of people wrong and were both
aggressively underestimated along the way, if not outright dismissed. "I don't
buy this theory that unpredictable is necessarily bad," Priebus said back when
Trump was just his ruffian nominee and not yet his future boss.

You can't appreciate the magnitude of Priebus's changing loyalties until you
consider just how much time, energy and dignity he expended before Nov. 8 trying
to protect "the party" from being defiled by Trump. "Donald Trump is Donald
Trump, and the party is the party," Priebus used to tell me during the campaign.
His ultimate allegiance was never in question. It was only six years ago that
Priebus was happily ensconced in Kenosha as chairman of the Republican Party of
Wisconsin. Now he is being described as the consummate "Washington insider" in
the Trump White House. He certainly has a line to Republican officials, namely
his close friend and fellow Wisconsinite Paul Ryan.

But in the end, for Priebus, it's now all about serving Trump, whose partisan
impulses have proved flexible through the years - let alone his allegiance to
the G.O.P. He ran, foremost, as a candidate of disruption. He fashioned himself
a dealmaker. No doubt this could immediately run afoul of the conservative
orthodoxy that has driven the Republican agenda on Capitol Hill. Trump also
vowed to "drain the swamp" of the "bloodsucker" lobbyists and "blood money"
fund-raisers, "political hacks" and various other parasites and hangers-on that
have fattened themselves so spectacularly in Suck-Up City. In many ways, these
are Priebus's people. He has cavorted, fund-raised and campaigned with them for
years, attended their crack-of-dawn donors' breakfasts and mediated their
disputes for the good of the party. He will most likely be looked upon as a
chief emissary to the Capitol Hill, K Street and donor constituencies that Trump
explicitly campaigned against - the chief of swamp.

For his part, Bannon has undertaken an incendiary mission over the years to
upend the G.O.P. "establishment," no one more so than Ryan ("a total and
complete sellout of the American people," Breitbart once declared, referring to
Ryan's stewardship of House appropriations). Bannon could occupy something of a
mysterious Svengali role in the tradition of presumed all-powerful presidential
whisperers like Karl Rove (for George W. Bush) and Valerie Jarrett (for Barack
Obama). Both Rove and Jarrett represented wild cards in their respective White
Houses and regular thorns in the sides of the various chiefs of staffs with whom
they served.

But one notable difference is that neither Rove nor Jarrett made it his or her
goal to obliterate the establishments that their presidents were trying to fold
themselves into; nor did either have close ties to fringe elements of their
parties, as Bannon has to the so-called alt-right and its main platform.
Breitbart has been described as a "white ethno-nationalist propaganda mill" by
the Southern Poverty Law Center. The site has posted articles linking
undocumented immigrants to disease, declared in a headline that "Birth Control
Makes Women Unattractive and Crazy," promoted the Confederate flag ("Hoist It
High and Proud: The Confederate Flag Proclaims a Glorious Heritage") and
referred to Gabby Giffords as "the Gun-Control Movement's Human Shield."

Bannon, who has tried to play down the most extreme elements of the alt-right in
recent days, nonetheless viewed Trump as a kindred provocateur - a feeling that
appears mutual. In one form or another, Priebus will try to integrate his
establishment orientations with these disruptive forces operating all around
him. Back during the campaign, Priebus used to refer admiringly to Trump as "an
earthquake in a box." In a separate conversation (and metaphor), he described
his challenge to me as keeping Trump inside "the funnel." Presumably this meant
keeping him directed and contained, easier said than done, but still fascinating
- and somewhat entertaining - to watch unfold in the campaign.

But with the presence of Bannon and the weight of Trump leading a nervous and
divided nation, the challenge in the White House is considerably less
entertaining to contemplate. Washington - like the presidency, certainly -
creates its own distinct funnel that will shape Trump and everyone around him in
inexplicable and perhaps dark ways.

As it turned out, Priebus never showed his face in the lobby of Trump's
building, at least when I was there. Like many key players inside Trump's ragtag
circle of collaborators, Priebus has gone largely dark since Election Day,
holing up in Transition Tower with occasional hops down to Washington. He was
not responding to my emails and was described by gatekeepers as "drinking from
multiple fire hoses."

So for now, my most recent and enduring image of Priebus is watching him beaming
and red-faced and a bit stunned on TV in the early hours of Nov. 9. A triumphant
Trump had just called him to the podium, declared him a "superstar" and compared
him to Secretariat. "But I'll tell you, Reince is really a star," Trump exulted.
"Reince, come up here. Where is Reince? Get over here, Reince."

Trump offered him the mike and insisted he say something. There could be no more
of a pinnacle moment for an avowed Republican Party animal who used to listen to
Newt Gingrich speeches in the car as a teenager. He would soon go from being one
of the most dumped-on figures in American politics to one of the most
sucked-up-to insiders in a White House of insurgents.

"Ladies and gentleman, the next president of the United States, Donald Trump,"
was all Priebus could muster. There were worse images to dwell on before the
drama intensified and puzzle mysteries inevitably presented themselves. Who knew
what the night's result would lead to or what "normal" would become for any of
the Trumpians soon, or any of us?

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.

Mark Leibovich is the chief national correspondent for the magazine and the
author of "This Town."

DRAWING (DRAWING BY LOUISE POMEROY) (MM41)

Bannon's appointment has consumed the bulk of the attention, given his
hyperprovocative ways. but Priebus, in a sense, filled a more exotic role.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             669 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Trump Summons TV Figures for Private Meeting, and Lets Them Have It

BYLINE: MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and SYDNEY EMBER

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 981 words



HIGHLIGHT: The defiant president-elect told on-air stars like Lester Holt,
Charlie Rose, George Stephanopoulos and Wolf Blitzer they got it all wrong.


It had all the trappings of a high-level rapprochement: President-elect Donald
J. Trump, now the nation's press critic in chief, inviting the leading anchors
and executives of television news to join him on Monday for a private meeting of
minds.

On-air stars like Lester Holt, Charlie Rose, George Stephanopoulos and Wolf
Blitzer headed to Trump Tower for the off-the-record gathering, typically the
kind of event where journalists and politicians clear the air after a
hard-fought campaign.

Instead, the president-elect delivered a defiant message: You got it all wrong.

Mr. Trump, whose antagonism toward the news media was unusual even for a modern
presidential candidate, described the television networks as dishonest in their
reporting and shortsighted in missing the signs of his upset victory. He
criticized some in the room by name, including CNN's president, Jeffrey A.
Zucker, according to multiple people briefed on the meeting who were granted
anonymity to describe confidential discussions.

It is not unusual for journalists to agree to off-the-record sessions with
prominent politicians, including President Obama, as a way to gain insights and
develop relationships.

But after details of Mr. Trump's hectoring leaked on Monday in The New York
Post, it seemed the meeting was being used as a political prop, especially after
Trump-friendly news outlets trumpeted the session as a take-no-prisoners move by
a brave president-elect.

"Trump Slams Media Elite, Face to Face," blared the Drudge Report. "Trump Eats
Press," wrote Breitbart News.

Those curious to hear more of what the president-elect had to say at the
closed-door session were out of luck: Although more than two dozen prominent
journalists attended, many declined to comment because they had agreed to keep
the proceedings off the record.

Kellyanne Conway, a top adviser to Mr. Trump, described the meeting in more
tempered terms. "It was very cordial, very productive, very congenial," Ms.
Conway told reporters at Trump Tower. "It was also very candid and very honest."

"From my own perspective," she added, "it's great to hit the reset button."

Still, the encounter crystallized concerns that Mr. Trump, emboldened by his
victory, may refuse to abide the traditional dynamic of a president and the
journalists who cover him, a naturally adversarial relationship that is
nevertheless based on some level of mutual trust.

Some media critics questioned why the television networks, which granted Mr.
Trump hundreds of hours of free exposure during the campaign, would agree to
Monday's terms. "They learned *nothing* over past 18 months of covering Trump,"
tweeted Erik Wemple of The Washington Post.

Television is of particular interest to Mr. Trump, who is a keen watcher of
morning shows and this past weekend tweeted his displeasure at being mocked on
an episode of "Saturday Night Live."

Coverage of Mr. Trump increased ratings and revenue at news networks, even as
some executives conceded that, early in the race, the president-elect was
granted too much free exposure. By the end of the campaign, Mr. Trump seemed to
turn on certain networks and television journalists, in particular CNN,
prompting supporters to chant anti-media slogans.

Two people briefed on Monday's meeting said that Mr. Trump seemed well versed in
the networks' ratings increase during the election and did not hesitate to bring
the subject up.

Mr. Trump is meeting with representatives of several news organizations this
week, including The New York Times, where he is scheduled to speak on Tuesday
with editors, reporters, columnists and the newspaper's publisher.

Reince Priebus, Mr. Trump's chief of staff; Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trump's daughter;
and Ms. Conway are expected to accompany the president-elect to The Times,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the meeting.

The meeting was organized at the request of Mr. Trump's team, Eileen Murphy, a
spokeswoman for The Times, said on Monday. Mr. Trump is expected to speak on the
record with Times reporters and columnists; there is also a short off-the-record
session planned, which Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, described as "an
opportunity to discuss past and future coverage."

As a candidate, and now as president-elect, Mr. Trump has frequently attacked
The Times, establishing the paper as a top target in his continuing feud with
the media. Mr. Trump often refers to the"failing" New York Times and has
threatened to sue the company for libel over an article about two women who
accused him of touching them inappropriately years earlier.

The failing @nytimes story is so totally wrong on transition. It is going so
smoothly. Also, I have spoken to many foreign leaders. - Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) November 16, 2016

The Times angered Mr. Trump with some of its unflattering coverage during the
campaign, including reports on his taxes, his treatment of womenand his legal
troubles with Trump University.

Since being elected president, he has blasted out more criticisms, using Twitter
to disparage the newspaper's coverage and to claim it had lost "thousands of
subscribers because of their very poor and highly inaccurate coverage of the
'Trump phenomena.'" (The Times disputed that assertion, saying that it had added
41,000 net paid subscriptions for its news products in the week after the
election.)

John Koblin contributed reporting.

PHOTO: Martha Raddatz of ABC at Trump Tower on Monday for a meeting of TV
journalists and executives called by Donald J. Trump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD
HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Donald Trump Agrees to Pay $25 Million in Trump University Settlement
     ·    Where Will Trump Stand on Press Freedoms?
     ·    Donald Trump Threatens to Sue The Times Over Article on Unwanted
          Advances
     ·    Two Women Say Donald Trump Touched Them Inappropriately
     ·    Donald Trump Tax Records Show He Could Have Avoided Taxes for Nearly
          Two Decades, The Times Found


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             670 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Kanye West Is Hospitalized for 'Psychiatric Emergency' Hours After Canceling
Tour

BYLINE: JOE COSCARELLI

SECTION: ARTS; music

LENGTH: 616 words



HIGHLIGHT: The rapper was taken to U.C.L.A. Medical Center for evaluation; last
week he performed two bizarre concerts that included lengthy tirades.


The rapper Kanye West was hospitalized on Monday in Los Angeles for exhaustion,
hours after he canceled the remainder of his 2016 tour, his representative said.

The Los Angeles Police Department said that it had responded to a call in the
West Hollywood area at 1:20 p.m., but that the encounter became a "medical
emergency" and was handed off to the Los Angeles Fire Department. In a recording
of the Fire Department's dispatch call obtained by TMZ, the matter was referred
to as a "psychiatric emergency."

Mr. West's representative, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss
sensitive matters, said the call had come from the rapper's doctor and that he
was taken willingly to the U.C.L.A. Medical Center for evaluation. The episode
was first reported by NBC News.

The cancellation of Mr. West's "Saint Pablo" tour, which was scheduled to run
through the end of the year, came after a turbulent few days for the rapper.
Onstage in Sacramento on Saturday night, Mr. West delivered a long, meandering
speech, criticizing friends and associates in the music industry, including Jay
Z and Beyoncé, as he praised the communication style of President-elect Donald
J. Trump. He then ended the concert after only a few songs. His show the next
night in Los Angeles was canceled just hours before he was set to perform.

Two nights before the Sacramento show, Mr. West left some fans dismayed and
confused at a concert in San Jose, Calif., after he said he would have supported
Mr. Trump, a Republican, if he had voted in the presidential election. "What do
you really believe?" he asked the crowd repeatedly.

"I am putting my career, my life, my public well-standing at risk when I talk to
y'all like this," Mr. West said in a similar speech on Saturday. "I've been
sitting here to give y'all my truth even at the risk of my own life. Even at the
risk of my own success, my own career. I've been sitting here to give y'all the
truth."

As news of the tour cancellation and Mr. West's hospitalization spread, the
rapper's friends and collaborators took to social media with messages of
support. "He's obviously going thru a tough time," Terrence Henderson, the rap
executive known as Punch, wrote. "Maybe things u don't know about. When it hit
the fan are you still a fan?"

The producer and record executive 9th Wonder added: "Been knowing the brother
upwards of 13 years. Mental healing is a serious thing, no matter what. Stay
strong Kanye West."

Chance the Rapper, in a BBC Radio appearance on Tuesday morning, also addressed
the situation, calling Mr. West a "big brother" figure. "I want to just extend
this prayer and extend this love from all the way in Britain," he said. "We
might come back early to come see this man."

Mr. West has been especially prolific this year. In addition to releasing a new
album, "The Life of Pablo," in February, he has presented two fashion
collections and performed more than 30 shows during the initial North American
leg of the tour, which ran from August through October.

Last month, Mr. West dramatically cut short a festival appearance in New York
when he learned on stage that his wife, Kim Kardashian West, had been tied up
and robbed at gunpoint in a Paris apartment. She has since receded from the
spotlight, but had been scheduled to make her first public appearance in more
than a month on Monday night at a charity gala in New York.

Instead, following news of Mr. West's hospitalization, Ms. Kardashian West was
photographed returning by plane to Los Angeles.

Related Articles


     ·    Kanye West Cancels the Rest of His 'Saint Pablo' Tour
     ·    Kanye West Calls Out Beyoncé and Praises Trump in Onstage Tirade
     ·    Review: Kanye West, Both Close and Out of Reach at His Tour Opener


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             671 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Small Banks Cheer Trump. So, After a Pause, Do Big Ones.

BYLINE: MICHAEL CORKERY

SECTION: BUSINESS; dealbook

LENGTH: 1365 words



HIGHLIGHT: Community bankers overwhelmingly supported Donald J. Trump's
campaign. Now, as mega-banks' stock soars, they too are looking ahead to the
benefits of his administration.


Washington lobbyists, financial and policy analysts and Wall Street insiders are
all trying to figure out what the Trump administration will mean for the banking
industry.

But Rusty Cloutier never doubted that Mr. Trump would be good for the small bank
he runs in Lafayette, La.

Mr. Cloutier sees in the new administration a chance not just for regulatory
relief, but for a reordering of priorities away from the wealthy interests of
the big cities and toward the rural and blue-collar communities where he
operates.

"My customers are very hard-working people," said Mr. Cloutier, the president of
MidSouth Bank. "They work in the oil fields and they hear they are racist, and
they just got tired of it being slammed in their face."

He added, "Tell your editors that they need to run a headline that says 'Main
Street Won.'"

And yet, in the weeks since Mr. Trump's surprise election, Wall Street has been
winning, too.

The stocks of Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase have been soaring to their
highest levels in years - a rally of such force that it has caught many bank
executives and analysts by surprise.

The surge, for example, has more than restored all the value in Wells Fargo's
share price that was eroded after the scandal over the rampant creation of
unauthorized bank accounts erupted in September.

For now, banks both large and small are benefiting from expectations that the
president-elect will roll back regulations on just about every aspect of the
industry, including the fees banks can charge, whom they can lend to and how
much capital they have to hold.

Banks would also benefit from the higher interest rates that are expected if a
Trump administration's fiscal stimulus program revives inflation. Higher rates
would increase the value of some of the banks' holdings and would widen banks'
margins on loans.

But like nearly all of Mr. Trump's policy positions, his plan for banking
regulation has not been explained in any great detail. Mr. Trump's feelings on
banks, perhaps more so than other industries, are difficult to sort out.

On one hand, he has called for dismantling the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial
overhaul that is credited with reining in risk taking but blamed for crimping
profits. On the other, he has railed against Wall Street elites for keeping down
small-town America.

How, then, will Mr. Trump justify policies that bolster bank profits, while also
delivering on his promises of economic populism?

Community bankers see themselves in the sweet spot. They say Mr. Trump can limit
regulations - particularly on banks with less than $10 billion in assets - while
still being tough on the Wall Street banks that were the driver of the financial
crisis and so much anger among the general public.

Freeing up community banks from the qualified mortgage rule and rigorous
anti-money laundering guidelines, for example, would allow them to spend less
time and resources complying with regulation and more on making loans and
lifting the fortunes of the rural America Mr. Trump championed in his campaign.

Several community bankers said they also wanted the Trump administration to rein
in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau by installing a five-person
bipartisan oversight board, rather than a single director.

Among community bankers, support for Mr. Trump has been pervasive and
consistent.

Roughly 84 percent of community bankers supported Mr. Trump, according to a poll
that the industry's trade group conducted after the political conventions this
summer.

"I didn't have any Trump signs in my yard," said Tim Zimmerman, president of
Standard Bank, which operates in communities outside Pittsburgh. "But I want the
bank to do well and to be able to help people in the community. And I can't do
that if things go the way they are going."

In reality, the nation's roughly 5,800 community banks represent a relatively
small part of America's banking activity. About half of the nation's deposits
are held by just a handful of mega-banks, where there was deep support for
Hillary Clinton.

Many on Wall Street helped bankroll Mrs. Clinton's campaign in the hope that she
would protect the forces that drive their global profits, like free trade. Many
executives at large banks feared that Mr. Trump was a loose cannon who could
destabilize the economy.

The chief executive of Goldman Sachs, Lloyd C. Blankfein, went so far as to
publicly voice support for Mrs. Clinton. He made a cameo in a pro-Trump ad -
along with Janet L. Yellen, the chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, and the
investor George Soros - that painted the Democrats as puppets of the global
financial elite. Critics called the ad anti-Semitic because it focused on Jewish
figures.

But as the stock market soared, the big banks began talking about the upside of
a Trump presidency. Two days after the election, Mr. Blankfein said at the
DealBook conference sponsored by The New York Times that he believed Mr. Trump's
policies would be "market supportive."

Unprepared for a Trump victory, executives inside the big banks began drawing up
lists of regulations or rules that the new administration and the
Republican-controlled Congress might change for their benefit.

They are not arguing for the repeal of Dodd-Frank, which large banks have spent
hundreds of millions of dollars complying with.

Nor do they want a less powerful consumer protection agency, which some credit
with helping big banks by cracking down on players on the industry's margins,
like payday lenders.

At the top of their wish list: rolling back the so-called Durbin Amendment,
which limits the fees banks can charge on debit cards, and tweaking the Volcker
Rule so that large banks can engage in more types of trading activity to help
their clients.

As banking lobbyists seek inroads with the new administration over regulation,
Democrats are trying to pressure the industry to denounce other actions by Mr.
Trump, including his selection of Stephen K. Bannon as his chief strategist. The
former executive chairman of the Breitbart News Network, Mr. Bannon has been
criticized for inflaming racist and xenophobic views.

In a letter last week, Representative Maxine Waters of California, the ranking
member of House Financial Services Committee, and other Democrats said the
banking industry had a "moral obligation to speak out against this appointment
as contrary to the values of this country and to the values of your industry."

The banking groups are declining to weigh in. Some say their input is not
relevant because Mr. Bannon is not likely to have a direct role in regulating
the financial industry.

"Personally, I don't think he is a racist," Scott McComb, chief executive of
Heartland Bank, which operates across Central Ohio, said of the president-elect.
"I think it is propaganda that is made to make him look bad."

Mr. McComb said while Mr. Trump said things during the campaign "that are not
becoming of a president," he expected that Mr. Trump would act with more decorum
in the White House.

"He conducted himself like a New York City developer," during the campaign, Mr.
McComb said. "That is how a New York City developer acts."

Mr. Cloutier, the Louisiana banker, said even if Mr. Trump appointed someone
like Steven Mnuchin, the former Goldman executive, to a top economic post, the
president-elect would not forget his promises to working-class America - and by
extension small banks.

"He's not going to be taking care of the sugar daddies who look down on the
hardworking people of America," Mr. Cloutier said. "But if he don't deliver on
that, he won't be around four years from now."

PHOTOS: Rusty Cloutier, above, president of MidSouth Bank in Louisiana. Scott
McComb, left, chief executive of Heartland Bank in Ohio. While many on Wall
Street supported Hillary Clinton, community bankers see hope for their
businesses and communities in Donald J. Trump's presidency. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
WILLIAM WIDMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; NATHAN C. WARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(B6)

Related Articles


     ·    Can Trump Save Their Jobs? They're Counting on It
     ·    The Trump Stock Rally: Calamity Averted With a Little Charm
     ·    Trump Expected to Seek Deep Cuts in Business Regulations
     ·    G.O.P. Joins Democrats Urging Glass-Steagall's Revival. (Don't Hold
          Your Breath.)


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             672 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Grievances and Grumblings, Long Before Chris Christie's Fall in Donald Trump's
Circle

BYLINE: KATE ZERNIKE

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1325 words



HIGHLIGHT: Governor Christie's dismissal from the president-elect's transition
team was weeks in the making, according to interviews with people close to the
governor and the campaign.


The critical weekend before Election Day was set to be a busy one for Gov. Chris
Christie of New Jersey; he was to campaign for Donald J. Trump in the
battleground states of New Hampshire and Pennsylvania.

Then that Friday, a federal jury convicted two of the governor's former aides in
the George Washington Bridge lane-closing trial. Mr. Christie, a Republican,
canceled the campaign events and accepted a new invitation: The night before
Election Day, he appeared on "Charlie Rose," not to talk about Mr. Trump, his
party's presidential nominee, but to defend himself against weeks of damaging
testimony in the trial.

In the orbit around Mr. Trump - which, like the one around Mr. Christie, prizes
loyalty - the governor's moves so close to the election were seen as proof that
for all his early support of Mr. Trump, Mr. Christie was out more for himself
than for the man at the top of the ticket. He may as well have been broadcasting
that Mr. Trump was going to lose.

Three days after he won the election, President-elect Trump deposed Mr.Christie
as leader of his transition team. Many fingers pointed at Mr. Trump's
son-in-law, Jared Kushner, whose father had been sent to prison by Mr. Christie,
then the top federal prosecutor in New Jersey, on charges of tax evasion and
illegal campaign contributions.

But Mr. Christie's unceremonious dismissal was more a pileup of grievances in
the weeks before the election, according to interviews with people close to the
governor and the campaign.

No one has publicly ruled out a role for Mr. Christie in the Trump
administration; on Sunday, the governor was among those the president-elect met
with at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J. But the meeting was much shorter than
others that day, only about 20 minutes.

The two men emerged before cameras just before Mr. Christie departed, for a
10-second handshake that looked almost like a tug of war. The governor smiled
forcibly, and Mr. Trump gave no indication that he was under consideration for
any jobs - unlike with other potential job candidates he met.

The jobs Mr. Christie wanted - friends say he would have liked to have been
White House chief of staff or attorney general - have been assigned to others.

Mr. Christie's fall in the Trump circle was weeks in the making. There was
already grumbling, particularly from former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New
York, and from Mr. Trump's children. Mr. Christie, they believed, had gone
off-message after an "Access Hollywood" tape was released in which Mr. Trump
made vulgar comments about women; the governor first canceled Sunday show
appearances, then emerged on the radio the next week to call Mr. Trump's
comments "indefensible."

Spending on the Trump transition effort, which Mr. Christie was leading, was
already higher than what the transition team of Hillary Clinton, the Democratic
nominee, had spent, even though polls showed her winning. And some around Mr.
Trump complained that Mr. Christie was using his post to promote his own people,
including his former chief of staff and his former law partner, who were running
the team day to day, and one of his longtime supporters, Bob Grady, who had been
recommended for several positions.

The friendship between Mr. Christie and Mr. Trump, while never deep, has always
been pragmatic. And several people interviewed said they had begun to patch up
any break with a conversation on the Saturday after the president-elect removed
the governor as leader of his transition team. That continued with the meeting
on Sunday at the golf club, not far from Mr. Christie's home.

Jon Bramnick, the leader of the Republican minority in the New Jersey Assembly
and one of the governor's most steadfast supporters, said, "Both Trump and
Christie are the type that they're loyal to their friends, and I suspect that
long term it will work out, whether it's a position now or later."

But the Trump roller coaster has been particularly jolting for Mr. Christie.

The two men met, according to Mr. Christie, through Mr. Trump's sister, a
federal judge, shortly after Mr. Christie became United States attorney for New
Jersey in 2002. Mr. Christie liked to be around celebrity; Mr. Trump, who owned
several casinos in Atlantic City, liked to know people in charge.

As the testimony in the lane-closing trial showed, Mr. Christie began planning a
run for president in 2016 shortly after taking office in 2010. Mr. Trump's run
started out looking like more of a flirtation with the office. But in a crowded
field of Republicans, he soon occupied the position Mr. Christie expected to
take, as the tell-it-like-it-is candidate not afraid to challenge the way things
had always been done.

Mr. Christie had struggled to bounce back from the scandal since January 2014,
when a legislative subpoena revealed that his deputy chief of staff had sent an
email calling for "some traffic problems" in the town that was gridlocked by the
closings, to punish a mayor who had declined to endorse the governor.

After the governor failed in his attempt to make a good showing in the New
Hampshire primary contest in February, he endorsed Mr. Trump. He became the
first major establishment Republican to do so. He also alienated many friends
and financial backers and saw his poll numbers drop to a new low.

Mr. Christie was, again, pragmatic, saying it was clear to him that Mr. Trump
would be the nominee. "If he had not been in the race, it would have been me,"
the governor said at a news conference at the time.

On the campaign trail, he endured public ridicule, when he stood obedient and
silent next to Mr. Trump on Super Tuesday on March 1. Mr. Trump himself mocked
the governor for eating too many Oreos and for abandoning his state to run for
president.

Mr. Christie publicly said he hoped to be Mr. Trump's vice-presidential nominee.
And he was said to be bitterly disappointed when Mr. Trump's children and
campaign manager prevailed on the candidate to instead choose Gov. Mike Pence of
Indiana.

Mr. Trump made Mr. Christie chief of the transition. But the governor was still
struggling with the scandal, after revelations on the stand that he had known
about the lane closings even as they were happening and did nothing to reverse
them.

On Election Day, Mr. Christie voted in the dark of early morning, a contrast to
earlier years when he invited cameras and reporters along by indicating on his
public schedule what time he would go to the polls.

Mr. Trump's surprise upset seemed to offer another chance at resurrection. Mr.
Christie appeared on the "Today" show, demurring on the question of whether he
wanted to be chief of staff or attorney general, saying his most important job
was the transition. "If there's some role for me that I want to do, and that the
president-elect wants me to do," he said, "we've known each other for 14 years -
we'll talk."

The next day, Mr. Trump announced that Mr. Christie would no longer lead the
transition.

The governor has now given signals that he is planning to serve out his term in
New Jersey. On Monday, he held his first cabinet meeting in a long time. Late on
Wednesday afternoon, he had bumped his lieutenant governor, Kim Guadagno, as the
keynote speaker at an annual statewide convention of mayors in Atlantic City,
which he has skipped since 2011.

Appearing the next day - Lieutenant Governor Guadagno's name was still on the
programs - Mr. Christie said, "I have no reason to believe that I will do
anything other than serve out my full term as governor and turn the keys of the
office over to whoever you select in November of 2017 to replace me."

"I've had a pretty good run," he added.

PHOTO: Gov. Chris Christie departed after meeting with President-elect Donald J.
Trump at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J., on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HILARY
SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    With Anti-Trump Advantage, Cuomo and de Blasio Vie to Be Opponent in
          Chief
     ·    2 Ex-Christie Allies Are Convicted in George Washington Bridge Case


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             673 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Mayor de Blasio Vows to Shield New Yorkers From Trump's Policies

BYLINE: J. DAVID GOODMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 970 words



HIGHLIGHT: Echoing the governor, Mayor Bill de Blasio pledged to challenge the
creation of a Muslim registry and promised to protect immigrants threatened with
deportation.


Faced with a Republican president-elect willing to draw hard lines on
immigration, policing and funding for social programs, Mayor Bill de Blasio in a
formal address on Monday drew some of his own, presenting New York City as a
national model of resistance and "a better way."

Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, vowed to mount a legal challenge if the federal
government tried to create a registry of the nation's Muslims. He promised to
protect immigrant families threatened with deportation. He pledged that an
aggressive stop-and-frisk policing policy would never return to New York.

"The president-elect talked during the campaign about the movement that he had
built," said the mayor, referring to Donald J. Trump and the huge rallies he
led. "Now, it's our turn to build a movement - a movement of the majority that
believes in respect and dignity for all."

The mayor's 40-minute speech - billed as a major address and delivered to
supporters, invited guests and 11 center rows filled with city workers at Cooper
Union - echoed in theme and some content one that another Democrat, Gov. Andrew
M. Cuomo, delivered a day before, also in Manhattan.

Mr. Cuomo, in his remarks at the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, said he
would create a new unit of the State Police to investigate hate crimes, move to
expand state human rights law and seek new funds to provide legal representation
to immigrants. Mr. de Blasio, too, said he would provide immigrants with
lawyers, working with the City Council to do so.

Mr. de Blasio's speech, delivered as he has begun his own re-election campaign,
included several instances of call-and-response with the friendly crowd drawn
from the full panoply of New York diversity, both in the seats and on the dais.
An openly lesbian Protestant chaplain from the Fire Department helped to open
the gathering along with an imam from the Police Department.

Mr. de Blasio spoke from a lectern adorned with a hashtag - #AlwaysNewYork -
meant to inspire tales of solidarity and pride in New York values. He reminded
the audience that Mr. Trump defended those values in abstract on the campaign
trail during the Republican primary contests.

"We ain't changing," Mr. de Blasio said, before listing his promises to defend
New Yorkers from deportation, unconstitutional police practices and any cuts to
federal funding for Planned Parenthood. "We will ensure women receive the health
care they need."

Former city lawyers said the mayor could rely on the federalism of the
Constitution as well as established case law to challenge undesired programs
from Washington. It could be many more months, if not years, before the issues
would be resolved in court.

"There is important value in reassuring people that the city and the state
maintain considerable sovereignty over its own policy," said Victor A. Kovner, a
partner at Davis Wright Tremaine and a former city corporation counsel.

The federal government may have broad authority over immigration, said Michael
A. Cardozo, a partner at Proskauer who served as the corporation counsel under
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican turned political independent. "But
those laws do not give the federal government carte blanche to do whatever it
wants with an immigrant."

Since the presidential election provided a shock to residents in the city and in
many areas of the state, Mr. de Blasio and Mr. Cuomo have offered similar
messages, appealing to Mr. Trump's New York roots while also presenting
themselves as defenders of their constituents who are worried about a new
administration that neither of them supported during the campaign.

The speeches were met with derision from state Republicans on Monday. Edward F.
Cox, the chairman of the state Republican Party, in a statement accused both of
a "naked and unseemly fight" to position themselves for a future presidential
run.

"These two scorpions in a bottle are each trying to outdo one another with
slanderous fear-mongering hyperbole," he said.

Asked about Mr. de Blasio's attempt to calm fearful New Yorkers, Kellyanne
Conway, a top adviser to Mr. Trump, mocked the mayor to reporters outside Trump
Tower: "Fearful of the jobs he's killed? Fearful of the bike lanes?"

That sentiment was repeated in the response to Mr. de Blasio's hashtag, which
for much of Monday provided a forum on Twitter for those opposed to his handling
of the city to vent frustrations, as well as for supporters.

"Mayor de Blasio rolled over for the N.Y.P.D. after they did a back-turning
protest," one user wrote. "You think he won't roll over for Trump?"

"So proud to be a New Yorker," another wrote. "They should both be impeached,"
another said of the mayor and the governor.

Even with a shared antagonist in Mr. Trump, Mr. de Blasio and Mr. Cuomo have not
been able to bridge the gap between them that, those close to both men say, has
seemingly widened beyond repair. They have not held an event together since the
election and have appeared content to go their own way in assuaging the concerns
of New Yorkers, even as they end up finding very similar ways of doing so.

"We will stand up and say, 'Yes we are black, white and brown - but we are
one,'" Mr. Cuomo said in his speech.

Mr. de Blasio said in his remarks the next day, "To all Latinos who heard their
culture denigrated - we stand by you."

"Yes we are Christian, Muslim and Jews, but we are one," Mr. Cuomo said.

"To all the Muslims who have heard their faith belittled - we stand by you," Mr.
de Blasio said.

"And that is the New York way," Mr. Cuomo said.

"We are always New York," Mr. de Blasio ended.

PHOTO: Mayor Bill de Blasio on Monday promised to defend New Yorkers from
deportation and unconstitutional police practices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER
LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Seeking Common Ground With Trump, Cuomo and de Blasio Focus on New
          York Ties


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             674 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Fake News Onslaught Targets Pizzeria as Nest of Child-Trafficking

BYLINE: CECILIA KANG

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1618 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Washington restaurant is reeling from menacing calls and online
abuse after a fake story: that Hillary Clinton abuses children there.


WASHINGTON - Days before the presidential election, James Alefantis, owner of a
local pizza restaurant called Comet Ping Pong, noticed an unusual spike in the
number of his Instagram followers.

Within hours, menacing messages like "we're on to you" began appearing in his
Instagram feed. In the ensuing days, hundreds of death threats - one read "I
will kill you personally" - started arriving via texts, Facebook and Twitter.
All of them alleged something that made Mr. Alefantis's jaw drop: that Comet
Ping Pong was the home base of a child abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton and her
campaign chief, John D. Podesta.

When Mr. Alefantis discovered that his employees were getting similar abusive
messages, he looked online to unravel the accusations. He found dozens of
made-up articles about Mrs. Clinton kidnapping, molesting and trafficking
children in the restaurant's back rooms. The articles appeared on Facebook and
on websites such as The New Nationalist and The Vigilant Citizen, with one
headline blaring: "Pizzagate: How 4Chan Uncovered the Sick World of Washington's
Occult Elite."

None of it was true. While Mr. Alefantis has some prominent Democratic friends
in Washington and was a supporter of Mrs. Clinton, he has never met her, does
not sell or abuse children, and is not being investigated by law enforcement for
any of these claims. He and his 40 employees had unwittingly become real people
caught in the middle of a storm of fake news.

"From this insane, fabricated conspiracy theory, we've come under constant
assault," said Mr. Alefantis, 42, who was once in a relationship with David
Brock, a provocative former right-wing journalist who became an outspoken
advocate for Mrs. Clinton.

Mr. Alefantis suspects those relationships may have helped to make him a target.
"I've done nothing for days but try to clean this up and protect my staff and
friends from being terrorized," he said.

Fake news online has been at the center of a furious debate for the past few
weeks over how it may have influenced voters in the presidential election.
President Obama warned last week that we are "in an age where there's so much
active misinformation and it's packaged very well" on social media sites. The
criticism has buffeted web companies such as Google and Facebook, whose chief
executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has promised to work on technology tools to slow the
gusher of false digital information.

But Mr. Alefantis's experience shows it is not just politicians and internet
companies that are grappling with the fake news fallout. He, his staff and
friends have become a new kind of private citizen bull's-eye for the purveyors
of false articles and their believers.

For more than two weeks, they have struggled to deal with the abusive social
media comments and to protect photos of their own children, which were used in
the false articles as evidence that the pizza restaurant was running a
pedophilia ring. One person even visited Comet Ping Pong to investigate the
allegations for himself.

To combat the fake news tide, Mr. Alefantis has contacted the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the local police, and he has asked Facebook, Twitter, YouTube
and Reddit to remove the articles. Yet the misinformation has continued to
spread, growing into a theory known as #pizzagate that has traveled to Ireland.
At one point, Comet's staff counted five #pizzagate Twitter posts a minute. As
recently as Sunday night, the Twitter message "Don't let up. #PizzaGate
EVERYWHERE" was reposted and liked hundreds of times.

"It's like trying to shoot a swarm of bees with one gun," said Bryce Reh,
Comet's general manager, whose wife asked him to leave his job because of the
threats and vulgar messages they both have received on their social media
accounts.

I won't stop tweeting about #PizzaGate until I know for a fact that there aren't
children in danger being covered up by the US government - Skye
(@TradSierraHotel) November 20, 2016

Mr. Alefantis, an artist born and raised in Washington, co-founded Comet Ping
Pong 10 years ago as a casual spot for clay oven pizza. The restaurant has
kid-friendly features like Ping-Pong tables and a craft room. Famous natives
like members of the band Fugazi have held small shows there. The eatery, which
seats 120, is a mash-up of red and white checkered tablecloths and modernist
murals and paintings from friends of Mr. Alefantis.

Mr. Alefantis mingles with other Washington chefs and his establishment helped
him to be named No. 49 in GQ magazine's 50 most powerful people in Washington in
2012. His customers include some high-powered locals, such as Tony Podesta, the
brother of John Podesta, whom Mr. Alefantis knows casually. Mr. Alefantis and
Mr. Brock, who is the founder of Media Matters for America, a website that
tracks press coverage critical of the Clintons and works to debunk
misinformation in the conservative press, broke up five years ago.

The misinformation campaign began when John Podesta's email account was hacked
and his emails were published by WikiLeaks during the presidential campaign.
Days before the election, users on the online message board 4Chan noticed that
one of Mr. Podesta's leaked emails contained communications with Mr. Alefantis
discussing a fund-raiser for Mrs. Clinton.

The 4Chan users immediately speculated about the links between Comet Ping Pong
and the Democratic Party. Some posited the restaurant was part of a larger
Democratic child trafficking ring, which was a theory long held by some
conservative blogs. That idea jumped to other social media services such as
Twitter and Reddit, where it gained momentum on the page "The_Donald." A new
Reddit discussion thread called "Pizzagate" quickly attracted 20,000
subscribers.

Glen Caplin, a former campaign official for Mrs. Clinton, did not comment
directly about Comet Ping Pong but said, "WikiLeaks has spawned several
conspiracy theories that have been independently debunked." Mr. Podesta did not
respond to requests for comment.

Soon, dozens of fake news articles on sites such as Facebook, Planet Free Will
and Living Resistance emerged. Readers shared the stories in Saudi Arabia and on
Turkish and other foreign language sites.

Last week, one supporter of the Pizzagate theory shot a live video from within
the restaurant during a busy dinner shift. Local police, who had parked across
the street after Mr. Alefantis filed a report about the fake news stories and
threats, told the man to leave.

In a statement, the District of Columbia Metropolitan Police Department said it
was monitoring the situation and is "aware of general threats being made against
this establishment." The F.B.I. said it "does not confirm or deny the existence
of investigations."

Most troubling for Mr. Alefantis and staff has been the use of children's
images, pilfered from the restaurant's social media pages and the personal
accounts of friends who had "liked" Comet Ping Pong online. Those photos have
been used across dozens of websites. Parents, who declined to talk publicly for
fear of retribution, have hired lawyers to get the photos removed.

Musicians who have performed at Comet Ping Pong have been pulled in, too. Amanda
Kleinman, whose band, Heavy Breathing, has performed there several times,
deleted her Twitter account after the abusive comments became overwhelming.
Similar comments have flooded her YouTube music clips.

"We are at a dangerous place in American culture where a good percentage of
people aren't distinguishing what is a real news source based on real reporting
and fact-checking and only reinforcing pre-existing ideas they have," Ms.
Kleinman said.

The frustration has been compounded by the lack of recourse for Mr. Alefantis,
his friends and employees. Yelp blocked the comments sections of Comet Ping
Pong's review page after reports of abusive comments and fake news in reviews.
YouTube said it prohibits threats, harassment and hate speech and has tools for
flagging violations and filing complaints for the site to take further action,
but has largely not blocked comments on these videos. Twitter declined to
comment, and Facebook did not have any further comment.

After employees and Mr. Alefantis complained to Reddit about how Comet Ping Pong
was being targeted on the site, the #pizzagate discussion thread posted a
warning that revealing personal information about individuals was prohibited.

"We know that we have more work to do and we take our responsibility to address
online abuse seriously," Reddit said in a statement.

Little relief appears in sight. Over the weekend, Comet Ping Pong received
dozens of calls from people screaming obscenities and threats. Mr. Alefantis got
50 nasty Instagram direct messages, including one that warned, "This place
should be burned to the ground!"

On Monday morning, when Mr. Alefantis picked up his phone, he saw a text from a
staff member warning that an individual might protest in front of the
restaurant.

"It's endless," he said.

Doris Burke contributed research from New York.

PHOTOS: James Alefantis, owner of Comet Ping Pong, at his restaurant in
Washington, D.C. Fake news websites have called it the home base of a child
abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton and John D. Podesta. (B1); Patrons at Comet
Ping Pong. Several of the restaurant's employees have been barraged with ugly
social media comments over the false child abuse allegations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
CHAD BARTLETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5)

Related Articles


     ·    How Fake News Goes Viral: A Case Study
     ·    Facebook Considering Ways to Combat Fake News, Mark Zuckerberg Says
     ·    Obama, With Angela Merkel in Berlin, Assails Spread of Fake News
     ·    Google and Facebook Take Aim at Fake News Sites
     ·    John Podesta Says Russian Spies Hacked His Emails to Sway Election


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             675 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Morning Agenda: Dallas Bankruptcy Threat, Italy's Crisis, Change in the Air

BYLINE: AMIE TSANG

SECTION: BUSINESS; dealbook

LENGTH: 708 words



HIGHLIGHT: Elected officials have promised workers nice pensions based on
wishful thinking. Now, localities across the United States are facing problems,
and the latest to be grappling with them is Dallas.


The scenario: elected officials promising workers nice pensions based on wishful
thinking. Sound familiar?

It is a problem faced across the United States, and the next victim could
beDallas. The city's mayor said it appeared to be "walking into the fan blades"
of municipal bankruptcy.

Its pension fund for police officers and firefighters is near collapse and is
seeking an immense bailout.

How can this be when Dallas has the fastest economic growth of the 13 largest
cities in the country?

Panicked local retirees have pulled $220 million from the fund in the last six
weeks after a recommendation that they no longer be allowed to take out big
blocks of money.

Even before that, there were reports that the fund's investments were worth less
than stated.

Senator John Whitmire, a Democrat who has been in the statehouse since 1973,
recalled enthusiastically voting in 1993 for the plan that sent the pension fund
on its ill-fated quest for investment returns of 9 percent.

"We all know some of the benefits, guaranteed, were just probably never
realistic," he said. "It was good while it lasted, but we've got some serious
financial problems because of it."

Italy's Slow-Motion Crisis

Here's a puzzle for you:

1. Europe may never regain economic vigor if Italy's banks are in a state of
perpetual emergency.

2. Italy's banks cannot get healthy without economic growth.

3. Italy's economy can't grow without healthy banks.

What's the solution

The country's banks have muddled through for years, but with the economy so
weak, bad loans have festered and good loans have deteriorated. Nearly a fifth
of loans in the system - worth nearly $400 billion - are classified as troubled
by the International Monetary Fund.

If this also sounds like a familiar theme, that's because it's a longstanding
problem and one that affects the rest of Europe. Italy's troubled loans
represent about 40 percent of all the bad loans within the eurozone.

But, "banking is a symptom, not the cause," says Ignazio Visco, the governor of
the Bank of Italy.

He argues that the bulk of Italy's bad debt is backed by collateral and most of
the remainder has a solid chance of turning into collectible debt.

Economists, however, are unconvinced.

They say banks prop up zombie companies that will never repay their loans,
extending just enough credit to keep them current on their debts.

Change in the Air

This year's presidential election could be remembered as a pivotal moment for
the markets, which have been given the impetus to solidify deeper trends that
were already underway.

A revaluation of a wide range of assets and securities has been taking place.

But traders are making educated guesses and if they turn out to be wrong, the
market could turn upside down again.

What does this mean for most long-term investors? Broad diversification, Jeff
Sommer writes. Simple balanced portfolios of stocks and bonds have barely moved
since the election.

Against the backdrop of the swerves and shifts happening in markets, that may
count as an achievement.

Quotation of the Day

"You don't need a crazy technical background to do this job. A lot of the
training is getting really good at talking to people."

- Genny Lopez, a contractor handling tech support calls for Apple. The company
is unlikely to produce iPhones in the United States but it is providing
employment for working-class Americans who lack college degrees.

Coming Up

The $48 billion mega-merger between Anthem and Cigna goes to trial. The Justice
Department is challenging the deal and the drama has been heightened as the
companies have accused each other of breaching the merger agreement. Decisions
about this case and the deal between Aetna and Humana are expected before
President-elect Donald J. Trump takes office, but his administration could have
a major say if either side decided to appeal the decision.

Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, will answer questions at
the European Parliament. He is likely to be asked about the effect of Mr.
Trump's presidency on the eurozone.

Follow Amie Tsang on Twitter @amietsang.

Related Articles


     ·    Italy's Banks Are in a Slow-Motion Crisis. And Europe May Pay.
     ·    It's Not Just the White House. Change Is in the Air on Wall St., Too
     ·    Dallas Stares Down a Texas-Size Threat of Bankruptcy


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             676 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

'Identity Politics' and Its Defenders;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 446 words



HIGHLIGHT: This country's deep racial problems stem from discrimination, not
from oversensitivity about discrimination.


This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to
receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox.

Mark Lilla's much-discussed piece in yesterday's Times tapped into a debate
about "identity politics." Lilla argued that Democrats had lost the election by
focusing on ethnicity, gender and sexuality rather than "appealing to Americans
as Americans and emphasizing the issues that affect a vast majority of them."

His view fits with the post-election conventional wisdom: that Democrats must do
better appealing to the white working class to regain power. I largely agree,
but I also think that Democrats need to be careful about alienating their
current constituencies - particularly since many of those constituencies are
growing.

So I spent some time yesterday looking for critiques of Lilla, to think through
their arguments.

The core criticism was that Lilla was wrong to suggest the political left
deserves blame for initiating the focus on racial (and other) groups. "The label
of 'identity politics' is mostly ridiculous whenever used, because American
politics historically was based on white male identity," Vann R. Newkirk IIof
The Atlantic wrote on Twitter. "Trump's entire candidacy & now presidency was
based on one of the most effective campaigns of identity politics in history."

Likewise, Ira Madison III, at MTV.com, wrote: "Trump is confirming racists and
white nationalists for his cabinet, but it's the liberals focusing on identity
politics that are getting us into trouble?" You'll find similar points in the
comments section of Lilla's article, including one from Sara, one of the first
comments under "Readers' Picks."

All of these arguments make a vital historical point: This country's deep racial
problems stem from discrimination, not from oversensitivity about
discrimination. And it would be a terrible mistake for anyone to shy away from
criticizing Donald Trump's alarming choices for attorney general and chief White
House strategist.

At the same time, there's a reality that Democrats would be foolish to
underestimate. This country's political system - the rules for electing both
Congress and the president - is biased toward large, sparsely populated areas.
Those areas tend to be overwhelmingly white.

Unless Democrats can win more support from white voters than they did this year,
the party will be left to complain about the country's political situation
rather than do something about it.

You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily
email newsletter and invite you to subscribe.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             677 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

How Have People at Your School or in Your Community Reacted to the Presidential
Election?;
Student Opinion

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE

SECTION: LEARNING

LENGTH: 463 words



HIGHLIGHT: In recent weeks, have you experienced, witnessed or heard about
discord between people who hold opposing political views?


In today's article, you'll read about "a turbulent week of tears, fury and
demonstrations" at an Iowa high school.

What is the general feeling at your school since Election Day?

In "At Iowa High School, Election Results Kindle Tensions and Protests," Julie
Bosman writes:

Like many other schools around the country since the election, West High has
become a microcosm of the United States itself, a place roiled by tension,
divisions and mistrust. Students in many schools say supporters of Donald J.
Trump have felt empowered to lash out at minorities, while outraged backers of
Hillary Clinton have been spurred to organize and demonstrate. And teachers have
been struggling to provide guidance even as they themselves are processing the
election results.

In Ladue, Mo., a suburb of St. Louis, students walked out of a high school twice
in a week to protest racist comments made at school after the election of Mr.
Trump. Two students were disciplined for telling black students boarding a bus
that they should sit in the back.

Swastikas were drawn in a boys' bathroom at a middle school in Bethesda, Md.,
which has many Jewish students. Children all over the country, particularly
Latinos and Muslims, have fearfully asked teachers and guidance counselors
whether they and their families will be deported.

The Southern Poverty Law Center, which has been tracking thousands of such
episodes since the election, said the most commonly reported locations for
harassment were K-12 schools.

"It's impossible to wall schools off from the rest of society," said Maureen
Costello, the director of Teaching Tolerance, a program of the law center. "It's
just seeped into the culture. Kids are hearing it at home and they're amplifying
it."

At West High, some teachers and parents have encouraged students to walk out of
class to protest racism and sexism and to support a pluralistic society. Others
were livid at the protests, saying the teenagers were overreacting. Some emailed
administrators to ask why some students were allowed to skip class for protests
during a crucial finals week.

Students: Read the entire article, then tell us:

- What is your reaction to the actions of the students described in the article?

- Have you witnessed or heard of anything comparable at your school or in nearby
schools? Explain.

- Why do you think K-12 schools are, according to the Southern Poverty Law
Center, the most commonly reported locations for harassment since the
presidential election?

- How do you think parents, teachers and school administrators should handle
incidents like those described in the article?

Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the
Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is
accepted, it will be made public.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             678 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 21, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

A Spotlight on Torture at Guantánamo;
Letters

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 622 words



HIGHLIGHT: Physicians for Human Rights discusses Donald Trump's stated support
of torture, and a former Army psychiatrist writes about medical ethics.


To the Editor:

Re "Even Nightmares Are Classified" ("Lasting Scars" series, front page, Nov.
13):

Your reporting reminds us all of the indelible scars the United States torture
program has left on its victims. During the Obama administration, we in the
human rights and medical communities held out hope for transparency and
accountability about the appalling treatment of detainees; instead, we've had to
rely on investigative journalists and detainees themselves to get a full
accounting of torture's lasting effects on both body and mind.

With a Trump presidency now on the horizon, there's a real fear that the United
States could descend back into the bleak days when medieval, barbarous practices
like waterboarding were greenlit at the highest levels of government. This
spring, Donald Trump said of waterboarding: "I love waterboarding. I think it's
great."

Waterboarding and other forms of torture are violations of United States and
international law, and are fundamentally at odds with long-established
international standards.

As physicians and medical professionals, we'll be watching closely to see
whether or not Mr. Trump carries through on his campaign promises of bringing
back torture. If so, we'll be ready to fight him at every step.

DONNA McKAY

Executive Director

Physicians for Human Rights

New York

To the Editor:

Your indictment against the United States government, military medicine and
military mental health, and even civilian psychiatry for its lack of oversight,
is exquisite. At the very least, your exposé suggests a new low for the
institutional abuse of psychiatry in the United States military.

The tormented accounts by the psychiatrists and others who expressed feeling
torn between prisoner-patients, who suspected that the psychiatrists were
accomplices in torture, and interrogators, who accused psychiatrists of
protecting the prisoner-patients, are reminiscent of many of the responses I
received from former Army psychiatrists in a post-Vietnam War study.

Those psychiatrists who served after 1968 and after America repudiated the war
were typically bitter, disillusioned and deeply regretful because, while by then
most were against the war and earnestly sought to reduce psychiatric suffering,
their soldier-patients nonetheless opposed treatment as if they were agents of a
persecuting military.

It was a rich and troubling example of ethical tensions arising from so-called
dual agency.

But this was not the case for the psychiatrists at Guantánamo, at least by the
standards of the American Psychiatric Association. In 2006, the A.P.A.
officially "reiterated" its position that psychiatrists' primary obligation is
to prisoner-patients, including serving as their advocate. They are furthermore
prohibited from participating in or facilitating torture and are obligated to
report evidence of torture to those in a position to take corrective action.

But what's especially suggested by the article is that in being subordinates in
the military hierarchy, the psychiatrists in Guantánamo were not confident as to
how to oppose institutional pressure that they know which "side" they were on
and act accordingly.

In 1993, I openly advocated that the A.P.A. actively monitor the regulations,
policies and treatment doctrine affecting psychiatrists in the uniformed
services, but to no avail. The circumstances in Guantánamo suggest that this
should be seriously reconsidered.

Otherwise, there remains, as was the case in Vietnam, an unreasonable burden of
conscience borne alone by each psychiatrist who serves.

NORMAN M. CAMP

Richmond, Va.

The writer, a retired colonel in the Army Medical Corps, is a clinical professor
of psychiatry at the Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth
University.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             679 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Democrats' Leadership Fight Pits West Wing Against Left Wing

BYLINE: JONATHAN MARTIN and MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1262 words



HIGHLIGHT: Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota has been steadily adding
endorsements, but some advisers to President Obama are urging others to enter
the race.


WASHINGTON - Struggling to respond to Donald J. Trump's victory, a group of
shellshocked Democrats moved swiftly to endorse Representative Keith Ellison of
Minnesota for chairman of the Democratic National Committee, hoping that he
would be a fresh face for a party with a depleted bench.

But after steadily adding endorsements from leading Democrats in his bid to take
over the party, Mr. Ellison is encountering resistance from a formidable corner:
the White House.

In a sign of the discord gripping the party, President Obama's loyalists, uneasy
with the progressive Mr. Ellison, have begun casting about for an alternative,
according to multiple Democratic officials close to the president.

The battle pits the titans of the Democratic Party against one another, with Mr.
Obama's camp at odds with figures like Chuck Schumer, the new Senate Democratic
leader, and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts.

Mr. Obama's advisers, some of whom discussed the party leadership race at a
White House meeting last week, have talked about whether Labor Secretary Thomas
E. Perez and former Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan would be willing to run
for the post. Mr. Perez met with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. last week
and had lunch Tuesday in the White House Mess with Valerie Jarrett, Mr. Obama's
senior adviser, while also visiting with David Simas, Mr. Obama's political
director.

Some in Mr. Obama's circle were even holding out hope that Mr. Biden himself
could be persuaded to step into the chairmanship as a unifying force for a party
reeling after losing the presidency and making scant gains in the House and
Senate.

But Mr. Biden's office said Tuesday that he was "not interested in being D.N.C.
chair," though he plans to "remain deeply involved in helping shape the
direction of the Democratic Party moving forward."

The tumultuous tenure of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who was forced
out as party leader in July, convinced a wide range of Democrats that whoever
takes over the committee must make it their sole focus.

"There's too much at stake for us not to have somebody working in a full-time
capacity," said Michael Blake, a New York assemblyman and veteran of both of Mr.
Obama's campaigns, who is considering a D.N.C. vice chairmanship. "This has to
be your priority."

But there are other reasons for the discomfort with Mr. Ellison that illustrate
lingering divisions after a bruising presidential primary fight and a general
election in which Hillary Clinton suffered deep losses among working-class
whites and could not match Mr. Obama's support among young and nonwhite voters.

Some Democrats, in Mr. Obama's orbit and beyond, say that elevating Mr. Ellison
would amount to handing the party to Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Mrs.
Clinton's primary race opponent, and his liberal followers.

Mr. Ellison was a high-profile backer of Mr. Sanders's presidential campaign,
and Mr. Sanders has been rallying support for Mr. Ellison's D.N.C. bid. Already
a polarizing figure among Democrats, he ignited new controversy this week by
saying the party needed to "go beyond identity politics."

"It's not good enough for someone to say: 'I'm a woman! Vote for me!'" Mr.
Sanders told students in Boston on Sunday, a comment widely seen as a criticism
of Mrs. Clinton. "No, that's not good enough. What we need is a woman who has
the guts to stand up to Wall Street, to the insurance companies, to the drug
companies, to the fossil fuel industry."

This call for an economic-centered brand of liberalism is what galvanized so
many of his supporters, but his blunt language also served to remind some
Democrats of the divisive primary race. There is little appetite for a replay of
that fight in the D.N.C. race, which will be decided by members of the committee
when they gather in February for their winter meeting.

Some top Democrats had hoped to pre-empt a contest by backing Mr. Ellison's bid.
Mr. Schumer, Ms. Warren and an array of House members and unions were lining up
behind him even before he formally entered the race.

But along with his inability to do the job full time and his links to Mr.
Sanders, Mr. Ellison's past criticism of Mr. Obama and praise for Louis
Farrakhan, the Nation of Islam leader, worry some Democrats looking for a figure
to lead the opposition to Mr. Trump.

Mr. Ellison, a Muslim, defended Mr. Farrakhan in the 1990s, saying he was "not
an anti-Semite," and has positioned himself on the left flank of congressional
Democrats on Israel.

Jonathan Greenblatt, the head of the Anti-Defamation League, called Mr. Ellison
"an important ally in the fight against anti-Semitism" but said he had taken
positions on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict "on which we strongly differ and
that concern us."

"We hope that all candidates for this post will make clear where they stand on
these issues, and that the Democratic National Committee will make a choice that
affirms the longstanding bipartisan consensus on a strong U.S.-Israel
relationship," he said.

Aides to Mr. Ellison were going to make him available for a telephone interview,
but then declined when informed that he would be asked about his past comments
on Mr. Farrakhan. They emailed a list of his links to the Jewish community and a
statement that said, "Democrats need an organizer who will energize the
grass-roots across this country to build the party from the bottom up."

A handful of state Democratic leaders have entered or are considering entering
the race, and Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor and D.N.C. chairman, has
also expressed interest.

But it is Mr. Perez, a son of Dominican immigrants, whom many prominent
Democrats would like to see enter the race, and who appears most willing to
consider it.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has been considering an endorsement of Mr. Ellison but delayed
its decision, in part because organized labor has a good relationship with Mr.
Perez. Mr. Perez called Richard L. Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.,
to tell him he was seriously considering a run and to ask him to hold off on an
endorsement, according to three Democratic officials familiar with the
conversation.

A spokesman for Mr. Obama declined to comment on the race and said the
administration was neutral. But many in the president's sphere think highly of
Mr. Perez and Ms. Granholm.

"He's very connected to the experience of everyday working-class people, and he
has a connection to immigrant communities, as well," David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's
longtime strategist, said of Mr. Perez, who is also mulling a run for governor
in Maryland in 2018. "He comes to this with a lot of assets if he were to step
forward."

Mr. Perez and Mrs. Granholm, who both declined to discuss whether they intended
to run, were early supporters of Mrs. Clinton's campaign, which could turn the
D.N.C. race into the Clinton-versus-Sanders proxy war some Democrats want to
avoid.

Get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing
newsletter.

Jonathan Martin reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.

PHOTOS: Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the new minority leader, is at odds
with the White House over the party chairmanship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE
NEW YORK TIMES); Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota, in his office last
year, is backed by Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

Related Articles


     ·    Senate Democrats' Surprising Strategy: Trying to Align With Trump
     ·    Their Leadership Lean, Democrats Turn an Eye to Rebuilding
     ·    Debbie Wasserman Schultz to Resign D.N.C. Post


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             680 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump Close to Picking Ben Carson as Housing Secretary

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1053 words



HIGHLIGHT: The choice of the former neurosurgeon suggested that Mr. Trump was
seeking diversity in an administration that has started off predominantly white
and male.


WASHINGTON - Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who ran an outsider's campaign
for the Republican presidential nomination and later backed Donald J. Trump, is
likely to be chosen as secretary of housing and urban development, according to
a person close to the Trump transition, suggesting that the president-elect is
seeking diversity in an administration that has started off predominantly white
and male.

Mr. Carson would be the first African-American member of Mr. Trump's cabinet -
and a familiar face to millions of Americans after a Republican primary campaign
in which he briefly soared to the top of the polls.

Mr. Trump has begun meeting with a wider array of prospects, either for advice
or as potential cabinet picks. He is also considering Harold Ford Jr., an
African-American former Democratic representative from Tennessee, for
transportation secretary or another post, though that process has not yet become
serious, a Trump official said.

Interviewed on Tuesday on the Fox News program "Your World With Neil Cavuto,"
Mr. Carson said the president-elect had offered him multiple positions in his
cabinet. Asked specifically about the housing job, he replied, "I would say that
it was one of the offers on the table."

Mr. Carson's job prospects had gotten somewhat lost in the recent flurry of
speculation about key national security positions, as well as his own misgivings
about his qualifications. But on Tuesday, Mr. Carson thrust himself back into
the spotlight, with an assist from Mr. Trump.

"I am seriously considering Dr. Ben Carson as the head of HUD," Mr. Trump said
on Twitter, using the acronym for the Department of Housing and Urban
Development. "I've gotten to know him well - he's a greatly talented person who
loves people!"

In recent days, Mr. Trump has broadened the list of people he is consulting to
include Michelle Rhee, a former District of Columbia schools chancellor;
Representative Tulsi Gabbard, the Hawaii Democrat who is the first Hindu member
of Congress; and Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, an Indian-American. Mr.
Ford, with whom he has not yet met, is a regular commentator on the MSNBC show
"Morning Joe," whose host, Joe Scarborough, Mr. Trump regularly calls for
advice.

So far, however, his picks have consisted of five white men: Stephen K. Bannon
as chief strategist in the White House, Reince Priebus as chief of staff,
Senator Jeff Sessions as attorney general, Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn as national
security adviser, and Representative Mike Pompeo as director of the C.I.A. Mr.
Trump is also rumored to be close to naming Gen. James N. Mattis as secretary of
defense.

While not as vocal as other supporters like Rudolph W. Giuliani or Gov. Chris
Christie of New Jersey, Mr. Carson has been a steadfast backer of Mr. Trump. He
went on television to defend him after the release of an "Access Hollywood" tape
in which Mr. Trump spoke about groping women.

But his last job was as director of pediatric neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins
University, and he has little background in housing. In the Fox interview, Mr.
Carson cited his childhood in Detroit and his experience treating inner-city
patients as qualifications for the job.

"I grew up in the inner city," he said, "and have spent a lot of time there and
have dealt with a lot of patients from that area and recognize that we cannot
have a strong nation if we have weak inner cities, and we have to get beyond the
promises and start really doing something."

"You know, our inner cities are in terrible shape, and they definitely need some
real attention," Mr. Carson continued. "You know, there have been so many
promises made over the last several decades, and nothing has been done, so it
certainly is something that has been a long-term interest of mine, and I'll be
thinking and praying about it seriously over the holiday."

Mr. Carson's remarks were a striking reversal from last week, when a friend of
his said he had turned down an offer from Mr. Trump to be secretary of health
and human services, citing his lack of experience in running a vast federal
bureaucracy.

"Dr. Carson feels he has no government experience, he's never run a federal
agency," his friend Armstrong Williams told The Hill newspaper. "The last thing
he would want to do was take a position that could cripple the presidency."

The Department of Housing and Urban Development, which was established by
President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965, had 8,416 employees and an annual budget of
$32.6 billion as of 2014.

On his own Facebook page, Mr. Carson has said he would prefer to remain an
outside adviser to Mr. Trump.

"My decision not to seek a cabinet position in the Trump administration has
nothing to do with the complexity of the job, as is being reported by some news
outlets," Mr. Carson said. "I believe it is vitally important for the Trump
administration to have many outspoken friends and advisers who are outside of
the Washington bubble."

The relationship between Mr. Carson and Mr. Trump has had its ups and downs.
Before the primaries, when Mr. Carson was riding high in the polls, Mr. Trump
accused his rival of having a "pathological temper." He based his accusation on
a passage in "Gifted Hands," Mr. Carson's autobiography, in which he described
having a strong temper and said that when he became angry, "I grabbed the
nearest brick, rock or stick to bash someone."

During the debates, however, Mr. Trump generally spared Mr. Carson the cutting
remarks he aimed at Jeb Bush and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida.

Later, when Mr. Carson endorsed Mr. Trump, he conceded that it was difficult to
reconcile the bombastic figure on the trail with what he described as a more
thoughtful person behind closed doors.

"There's the one you see on the stage," Mr. Carson said, "and there's the one
who's very cerebral, sits there and considers things very carefully."

Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.

PHOTO: Ben Carson said on Tuesday that President-elect Donald J. Trump had
offered him multiple positions in his cabinet. (POOL PHOTO BY BEHAR ANTHONY)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Inches Toward Naming Domestic Cabinet Members
     ·    Trump Turns Staid Process Into Spectacle as Aspirants Parade to His
          Door
     ·    A List of Priorities From Trump, and Kris Kobach Tips His Hand
     ·    Trump Meets With Romney as He Starts to Look Outside His Inner Circle


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             681 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Book Publishers Scramble to Make Sense of Trump's Rise to Victory

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA ALTER

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1138 words



HIGHLIGHT: Publishing houses were caught off-guard by Donald Trump's win on
Election Day, and editors, agents and publishers are now racing to acquire works
like memoirs and political analysis.


Correction Appended

In the summer of 2015, Katy Tur, a London-based foreign correspondent for NBC
News, got a surprising offer from the network's head of news coverage. Would she
like to cover Donald J. Trump's presidential campaign? He assured her that it
would be a brief assignment - six weeks at the most.

It was one of many assumptions about Mr. Trump's candidacy that proved to be
wildly off-base. Ms. Tur was on the campaign trail for 18 months, living out of
a suitcase and subsisting on hard-boiled eggs, packets of peanut butter and
fistfuls of Cheez-Its. She became a frequent target of Mr. Trump on Twitter and
during his rallies, where he accused her of dishonesty and called her a
"third-rate reporter," and she received death threats from his supporters. On
election night, expecting to cover his defeat, she instead reported on his
victory speech.

Ms. Tur will recount those experiences in a book, "Unbelievable," which will
also explore Mr. Trump's unexpected rise through the Republican ranks and his
ascension to the presidency.

Ms. Tur's memoir, which will be published by Dey Street Books next year, is part
of a coming deluge of postelection analysis, as agents, editors and publishers
race to acquire books that explain the forces that propelled Mr. Trump to
victory and assess the future of American politics after a caustic and
polarizing election. It is a challenging task, made all the more daunting by the
fact that few in the publishing world foresaw Mr. Trump's rise.

"As book publishers, we have a responsibility to take two steps back from the
nowness of it all and find out what's going to be relevant five years from now,"
said Julia Cheiffetz, executive editor of Dey Street Books. "It's one of the
most extraordinary moments in American history."

Some political books and memoirs that were already in the works before Election
Day will take on new resonance. Random House recently acquired a memoir by Khizr
Khan, the Pakistani-American Gold Star father who became a prominent surrogate
for Hillary Clinton after his stirring speech at the Democratic National
Convention. His memoir, which is scheduled to be published in 2017, will tell
the story of the Khans' move from Pakistan to America; the loss of their son, a
captain in the Army; and their unexpected role in a heated national debate about
immigration, patriotism and religious diversity.

"Their story of what it's like to be a Muslim in America, it feels even more
pertinent after the election results," said Ben Greenberg, Random House's
executive editor.

Other books will examine Mr. Trump's populist appeal and how he capitalized on
voters' economic and social anxiety, or will try to place the Trump phenomenon
within a growing wave of populist and nationalist movements. The journalist
David Neiwert's "Militialand USA: The Rise of the Radical Right in the Age of
Trump," to be published by Verso, will examine how Mr. Trump's campaign helped
extreme right-wing voices find a place in the mainstream. This month, Atlantic
Books acquired the BBC broadcaster Steve Richards's "The Rise of the Outsiders:
How the Anti-Establishment Is on the March," which will look at the populist
sentiments that drove Trump voters and the movement in Britain to exit the
European Union.

A normal election year brings a barrage of books from campaign reporters,
political pundits and academics, ranging from autopsies of the inner workings of
a campaign to wonkier works that explore policies and social issues. There have
been some breakout campaign books in recent years, including "Game Change" - a
juicy post-mortem of the 2008 election by the political reporters John Heilemann
and Mark Halperin, which sold nearly 500,000 print copies according to Nielsen -
and books by Obama campaign insiders like David Plouffe and David Axelrod. And
an outgoing administration typically produces a flood of memoirs from cabinet
members, advisers and, of course, the president and first lady.

But this was far from a normal election year. Like many in the media, publishing
industry executives were caught off-guard by the results on Nov. 8, and now find
themselves scrambling.

"People are curious, and people are baffled, and from the point of view of a
publisher that's both an opportunity and a hurdle, because you need to find a
way to explain what happened," said Peter Osnos, founder of the publishing
imprint PublicAffairs, who has worked on books by Barack Obama, Bill Clinton and
Jimmy Carter. "The big question is who will emerge with something that's
compelling, original, revelatory and provocative."

Some publishers say there's little appetite for the traditional blow-by-blow
account of a contentious campaign that was already the subject of almost nonstop
daily news coverage. (Mr. Halperin and Mr. Heilemann declined to comment on
whether they planned to write a book about the 2016 election.)

"It was such an exhausting campaign, and it was so exhaustively covered that you
would really have to come at it in a different way," said John Sterling, an
editor at large at Macmillan.

There's an evident hunger among readers for thoughtful and nuanced explanations
of how Mr. Trump rode a tide of discontent among white working-class voters to
the presidency. Immediately after the election, books like J. D. Vance's
"Hillbilly Elegy" and George Packer's "The Unwinding," which both examine the
country's growing cultural and political divisions and the grievances of the
white working class, shot up on Amazon's best-seller lists. Mr. Vance's book,
which has 570,000 copies in print, sold more than 19,000 copies in the week
ending Nov. 13, according to Nielsen. Several editors and publishers said they
were eager to acquire more narrative nonfiction books like "Hillbilly Elegy"
that take a broader view of cultural and economic forces.

Some see an opportunity for writers and publishers to seize on a moment of
uncertainty and take stock of the future of the Democratic and Republican
parties.

"As surprising as the election was, as gobsmacked as most people were by the
results of it, the really interesting part starts now," Mr. Sterling said.


Correction: November 22, 2016, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an
editing error, an earlier version of a picture caption with this article
misstated the given name of the NBC News reporter who is writing the book
"Unbelievable." She is Katy Tur, not Kathy.

PHOTO: Katy Tur, who covered Donald Trump's campaign for NBC News, will explore
Mr. Trump's rise in the memoir "Unbelievable." (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP
SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    Richard Rorty's 1998 Book Suggested Election 2016 Was Coming
     ·    Megyn Kelly: By the Book
     ·    Review: Megyn Kelly Tells Tales Out of Fox News in Her Memoir, 'Settle
          for More'
     ·    New York Theater Artists' Latest Muse: Donald Trump


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             682 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump's Demand for Love;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 821 words



HIGHLIGHT: His meeting with The Times was a marvel of boasting and bending.


I had just shaken the president-elect's normal-size hand and he was moving on to
the next person when he wheeled around, took a half step back, touched my arm
and looked me in the eye anew.

"I'm going to get you to write some good stuff about me," Donald Trump said.

It's entirely possible. I keep an open mind. But I'm decided on this much:
Winning the most powerful office in the world did nothing to diminish his epic
ache for adoration or outsize need to tell everyone how much he deserves it.

He sat down for more than an hour with about two dozen of us at The Times on
Tuesday afternoon, and what subject do you suppose he spent his first eight
minutes on? When the floor was his, to use as he pleased?

The incredibleness of his win two weeks ago.

"A great victory," he said as he went back, unbidden, through all the
Trump-affirming highlights: the size of his crowds; the screens and loudspeakers
for the overflow; the enthusiasm gap between his rallies and poor Hillary
Clinton's. It's a song I've heard so often I could sing it in my sleep.

He volunteered that until he came along, Republican presidential candidates had
been foiled in both Michigan and Pennsylvania for "38 years or something." The
"something" apparently covered the actual figure, 28.

He said that he got close to 15 percent of African-Americans' votes, though exit
polls suggest it was just 8 percent, and he asserted that their modest turnout
was in fact a huge compliment to him, demonstrating that "they liked what I was
saying" and thus didn't bother to show up for Clinton.

He mentioned the popular vote before any of us could - to let us know that he
would have won it if it had mattered and his strategy had been devised
accordingly.

"The popular vote would have been a lot easier," he said, making clear that his
Electoral College triumph was the truly remarkable one.

For Trump, bragging is like breathing: continuous, spontaneous. He wants nothing
more than for his audience to be impressed.

And when his audience is a group of people, like us, who haven't clapped the way
he'd like?

He sands down his edges. Modulates his voice. Bends.

That was perhaps the most interesting part of the meeting, the one that makes
his presidency such a question mark. Will he tilt in whatever direction, and
toward whichever constituency, is the surest source of applause? Is our best
hope for the best Trump to be so fantastically adulatory when he's reasonable
that he's motivated to stay on that course, lest the adulation wane?

The Trump who visited The Times was purged of any zeal to investigate Clinton's
emails or the Clinton Foundation, willing to hear out the scientists on global
warming, skeptical of waterboarding and unhesitant to disavow white
nationalists. He never mentioned the border wall.

He more or less told us to disregard all the huffing and puffing he'd done about
curtailing press freedoms, and he looked forward to another meeting - a year
from now - when we'd all reunite in a spirit of newfound amity to celebrate his
administration's uncontroversial accomplishments. I could see the big group hug.
I could hear "Kumbaya."

And though one of his splenetic tweets just seven hours before our meeting had
again branded The Times a "failing" news organization, he said to our faces that
we weren't just a "great, great American jewel" but a "world jewel."

There was a lesson here about his desire to be approved of and his hunger to be
loved. There was another about the shockingly unformed, pliable nature of the
clay that is our 70-year-old president-elect.

His reservations about waterboarding, he said, arose from a conversation he'd
just had with James Mattis, a retired Marine general under consideration for
secretary of defense. During that talk Mattis had bluntly questioned
waterboarding's effectiveness - and so, now, did Trump.

It was as if he'd never really thought through the issue during that endless
campaign, and it suggested that the most influential voice in Trumplandia is the
last one he happened to listen to. That's worrying, because some of the voices
he has thus far put closest to him - those of Steve Bannon, Mike Flynn, Jeff
Sessions - aren't the most constructive, restrained, unifying ones.

And to my eyes and ears, Trump still has grandiose intentions in lieu of
concrete plans. Toward the end of our meeting, he went so far as to prophesy
that he might be able to accomplish what his predecessors couldn't and broker a
lasting peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians.

That'd definitely do the trick. We'd all be writing nothing but very, very good
stuff about him then.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.


Related Articles


     ·    Questioning Donald Trump
     ·    The Trump Revelations
     ·    At Lunch, Donald Trump Gives Critics Hope
     ·    Trump Reassures the Media (For Now)


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             683 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

At Donald Trump's Properties, a Showcase for a Brand and a President-Elect

BYLINE: JEREMY W. PETERS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1141 words



HIGHLIGHT: Questions are being raised about whether Mr. Trump is exploiting the
high profile of the presidency to conduct what could be seen as a promotional
tour for the Trump Organization.


They stood in line at Trump Tower, sometimes up to half an hour, handing over
their cash for mementos of the president-elect: mini, gold-wrapped chocolate
bricks stamped "Trump." Trump monogrammed sweaters, towels and glassware. Trump
cologne.

"I bought it for my two sons," said Shanon Loggins, 47, of Lufkin, Tex., showing
off a golden shopping bag embossed with the Trump crest that carried two bottles
of Success by Trump, a fragrance for men. "They need to be successful," she
explained.

Business is good for Donald J. Trump. People are flocking to his Midtown
Manhattan skyscraper, dining in his restaurants and buying his wares. Reporters
are fastidiously chronicling the comings and goings of his transition team, his
self-branded properties providing the backdrop for television live shots.

Mr. Trump has taken the staid task of preparing to assume the presidency and
turned it into an exercise in conspicuous self-promotion and carefully
choreographed branding.

But as the president-elect makes use of his vast real estate holdings, he is
also raising questions about whether he is exploiting the high profile and
stature of the office to conduct what could be seen as a promotional tour for
the Trump Organization.

The venues he has picked to conduct his official transition planning attest to
his success as a real estate developer: Trump Tower, the Manhattan skyscraper
where he lives and works amid Trump-themed eateries and boutiques; Mar-a-Lago,
the upscale, private Palm Beach, Fla., club where he has chosen to hold meetings
over Thanksgiving; and the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J.

Mr. Trump especially liked the Bedminster setting, he told his aides, because
the images of him receiving potential cabinet appointees at the front door of
the clubhouse resembled 10 Downing Street in London.

In planning future transition meetings, Mr. Trump and his team are considering
other properties of his that might fit his desire for rich, regal symbolism.

"It stinks," said Norman Eisen, who was the chief White House ethics lawyer for
President Obama from 2009 to 2011. Because there is no specific law prohibiting
public officeholders from financially beneficial self-promotion, what Mr. Trump
is doing is probably not illegal, Mr. Eisen added.

"But that doesn't make it right," he said. "It's part and parcel of the unsavory
marketing of his brands that he also did during the campaign."

Unsavory or not, it is all part of the stagecraft and spectacle that Mr. Trump
has directed from his 26th-floor office in Trump Tower - all of which is being
ravenously consumed by the news media and his loyal followers.

Most days since Mr. Trump became the president-elect, the lobby of Trump Tower
has been a public staging area for aspects of the transition that Mr. Trump most
wants people to see.

Potential cabinet appointees march across its buffed marble floors, past the
cameras that stream the scene live to C-Span, and into the gold mirrored
elevators. This week there were people like Gov. Mary Fallin of Oklahoma and
Rick Perry, the former Texas governor, who disparaged Mr. Trump as "a cancer on
conservatism" when they were battling for the Republican nomination.

Mr. Trump and his staff have even devised a proper greeting protocol for
arriving guests. As Mr. Perry made his way through the lobby on Monday, a young
woman looped her arm around his and escorted him past the cameras. The same
woman was also on hand over the weekend to accompany visiting guests when Mr.
Trump moved the meetings to Bedminster.

The golf club was even more of a display of munificence, with Mr. Trump turning
to the cameras to embrace Mitt Romney, who just months ago condemned Mr. Trump
as a "phony" and a "fraud." He is now a leading candidate for secretary of
state. There were more ethnically diverse potential cabinet candidates there, as
well, like T. W. Shannon, the first African-American speaker of the Oklahoma
House, and Michelle Rhee, a former schools chancellor in Washington, who is
Asian-American.

When Mr. Trump was done interviewing them, he would see them off outside and,
once again, banter with the news media.

"Tremendous talent - we're seeing tremendous talent," Mr. Trump said on
Saturday. "People that, as I say, we will 'make America great again.' These are
really great people. These are really, really talented people."

As the cameras rolled during the weekend at Bedminster, temperatures dropped
sharply, sending journalists into the gift shop, where the only cold-weather
attire they could find was a winter hat with Trump embroidered on it.

The market for anything stamped Trump has been bustling. At the gift kiosk on
the lower level of Trump Tower - between the Trump Ice Cream Parlor and the
Trump Grill, with its $25 prix fixe lunch - the line on Monday morning was about
two dozen people deep. Cashiers were doing their civic diligence, asking anyone
purchasing Trump campaign gear like the "Make America Great Again" hats ($25)
whether they were American citizens. (Law prohibits foreigners from giving money
to campaigns.)

Marilyn Bryan, 70, of Terre Haute, Ind., was sitting at a table outside the
kiosk with her daughter Trisha. In May, Ms. Bryan was at a Trump rally in her
hometown when someone passed out next to her, knocked her down and broke her
femur.

That might have been enough Trump for anyone else. But she decided that as long
as she was visiting New York this week, she might as well stop by the tower to
take in the scene. "What'd we spend? $200?" she asked her daughter. Inside her
shopping bag were a hat, the golden Trump chocolate bars and some other Trump
knickknacks she planned to give to her relatives. The chocolate, they were
somewhat disappointed to learn, was actually made in Fort Wayne, Ind.

Standing nearby were Paul and Lea Foster of Hidden Hills, Calif. After
purchasing two hats and two T-shirts, Ms. Foster, 62, marveled at Mr. Trump's
ability to cash in on his name. "He's sure figured out how to make money," she
said.

Her husband nodded. "He's a businessman, a promoter," said Mr. Foster, 81.
"Let's hope he knows how to run the country."

Get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing
newsletter.

Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.

PHOTOS: Club members and guests waited for President-elect Donald J. Trump on
Friday at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J., where he met with potential cabinet
appointees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Items for sale
at the Trump Store at Trump Tower in Manhattan, where meetings on the transition
to power have been held. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump, in Interview, Moderates Views but Defies Conventions
     ·    Trump Foundation May Have Used Money to Benefit One of Its Own
     ·    Donald Trump's New York Times Interview in 12 Tweets
     ·    Trump, on YouTube, Pledges to Create Jobs


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             684 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Trump, in Interview, Moderates Views but Defies Conventions

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR, JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS and MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1713 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a discussion at The New York Times, the president-elect was less
adamant on prosecuting Hillary Clinton, the use of waterboarding and climate
change.


Correction Appended

President-elect Donald J. Trump on Tuesday tempered some of his most extreme
campaign promises, dropping his vow to jail Hillary Clinton, expressing doubt
about the value of torturing terrorism suspects and pledging to have an open
mind about climate change.

But in a wide-ranging hourlong interview with reporters and editors at The New
York Times - which was scheduled, canceled and then reinstated after a dispute
over the ground rules - Mr. Trump was unapologetic about flouting some of the
traditional ethical and political conventions that have long shaped the American
presidency.

He said he had no legal obligation to establish boundaries between his business
empire and his White House, conceding that the Trump brand "is certainly a
hotter brand than it was before." Still, he said he would try to figure out a
way to insulate himself from his businesses, which would be run by his children.

He defended Stephen K. Bannon, his chief strategist, against charges of racism,
calling him a "decent guy." And he mocked Republicans who had failed to support
him in his unorthodox presidential campaign.

In the midday meeting in the 16th-floor boardroom of The Times's publisher,
Arthur Sulzberger Jr., Mr. Trump seemed confident even as he said he was awed by
his new job. "It is a very overwhelming job, but I'm not overwhelmed by it," he
said.

He displayed a jumble of impulses, many of them conflicting. He was magnanimous
toward Mrs. Clinton, but boastful about his victory. He was open-minded about
some of his positions, uncompromising about others.

The interview demonstrated the volatility in Mr. Trump's positions.

He said he had no interest in pressing for Mrs. Clinton's prosecution over her
use of a private email server or for financial acts committed by the Clinton
Foundation. "I don't want to hurt the Clintons, I really don't," he said.

On the issue of torture, Mr. Trump suggested he had changed his mind about the
value of waterboarding after talking with James N. Mattis, a retired Marine
Corps general, who headed the United States Central Command.

"He said, 'I've never found it to be useful,'" Mr. Trump said. He added that Mr.
Mattis found more value in building trust and rewarding cooperation with
terrorism suspects: "'Give me a pack of cigarettes and a couple of beers, and
I'll do better.'"

"I was very impressed by that answer," Mr. Trump said.

Torture, he said, is "not going to make the kind of a difference that a lot of
people are thinking."

Mr. Trump repeated that Mr. Mattis was being "seriously, seriously considered"
to be secretary of defense. "I think it's time, maybe, for a general," he said.

On climate change, Mr. Trump refused to repeat his promise to abandon the
international climate accord reached last year in Paris, saying, "I'm looking at
it very closely." Despite the recent appointment to his transition team of a
fierce critic of the Paris accords, Mr. Trump said that "I have an open mind to
it" and that clean air and "crystal clear water" were vitally important.

He held out assurances that he did not intend to embrace extremist positions in
some areas. He vigorously denounced a white nationalist conference last weekend
in Washington, where attendees gave the Nazi salute and criticized Jews.

Asked about his antagonism with the news media and his vow to toughen libel
laws, Mr. Trump offered no specifics but told the group, "I think you'll be
happy."

Despite his frequent attacks against what he has dubbed the "failing New York
Times," Mr. Trump seemed to go out of his way to praise the institution, which
he called "a great, great American jewel, world jewel." He did, however, say he
believed The Times had been too tough on him during the campaign.

Pressed to respond to criticism in other areas, he was defiant. He declared that
"the law's totally on my side" when it comes to questions about conflict of
interest and ethics laws. "The president can't have a conflict of interest," he
said.

He said it would be extremely difficult to sell off his businesses because they
are real estate holdings. He said that he would "like to do something" and
create some kind of arrangement to separate his businesses from his work in
government. He noted that he had turned over the management of his businesses to
his children, which ethics lawyers say is not sufficient to prevent conflicts of
interest.

He insisted that he could still invite business partners into the White House
for grip-and-grin photographs. He said that critics were pressuring him to go
beyond what he was willing to do, including distancing himself from his children
while they run his businesses.

"If it were up to some people," he said, "I would never, ever see my daughter
Ivanka again."

Mr. Trump did not dispute reports that he had used a meeting last week with
Nigel Farage, the U.K. Independence Party leader, to raise his opposition to
offshore wind farms. Mr. Trump has long complained that wind farms would mar the
view from his golf course in Aberdeenshire, Scotland.

"I might have brought it up," Mr. Trump said, then argued he had done so because
of policy concerns about wind farms rather than any personal interest.

Mr. Trump rejected the idea that he was bound by federal antinepotism laws from
installing his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, in a White House job. But he said he
would want to avoid the appearance of a conflict and might instead seek to make
Mr. Kushner a special envoy charged with brokering peace in the Middle East.

"The president of the United States is allowed to have whatever conflicts he or
she wants, but I don't want to do that," Mr. Trump said. But he said that Mr.
Kushner, who is an observant Jew, "could be very helpful" in reconciling the
longstanding dispute between the Israelis and the Palestinians.

"I would love to be able to be the one that made peace with Israel and the
Palestinians," Mr. Trump said, adding that Mr. Kushner "would be very good at
it" and that "he knows the region."

"A lot of people tell me, really great people tell me, that it's impossible -
you can't do it," Mr. Trump added. "I disagree. I think you can make peace."

"I have reason to believe I can do it," he added.

Mr. Trump spoke only in general terms about foreign policy. He said the United
States should not "be a nation builder," repeated his line from the campaign
that fighting the war in Iraq was "one of the great mistakes in the history of
our country," and said he has some "very definitive" and "strong ideas" about
how to deal with the violent civil war raging in Syria. He declined to say what
those ideas are despite several requests to do so.

"We have to end that craziness that's going on in Syria," he said.

The president-elect said that he had talked with President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia since winning the election, but he did not elaborate. He said it would be
"nice" if he and Mr. Putin could get along, but he rejected the idea that any
warming of relations would be called a "reset," noting the criticism that Mrs.
Clinton received after her attempts at bettering relations between the countries
failed.

"I wouldn't use that term after what happened," Mr. Trump said.

Mr. Trump made a forceful defense of Mr. Bannon, whom he named as his chief
strategist and who has drawn charges of racism and anti-Semitism. This summer,
Mr. Bannon called Breitbart News, the website he led, "the platform for the
alt-right," a white nationalist movement.

Mr. Trump said Mr. Bannon had been dismayed at the reaction to his hiring.

"I've known Steve Bannon a long time. If I thought he was a racist or
alt-right," he said, "I wouldn't even think about hiring him."

Mr. Trump added: "I think he's having a hard time with it because it's not him.
I think he's been treated very unfairly."

He also defended Breitbart, which has carried racist and anti-Semitic content,
saying it was no different from The Times, only "much more conservative."

Mr. Trump said he hoped to develop a "great long-term relationship" with
President Obama, with whom he said he had an unexpected rapport. "I really liked
him a lot, and I am a little bit surprised that I am telling you that I really
liked him a lot," he said.

And Mr. Trump gloated about defying the polls and the expectations of his own
party to win the presidency, and boasted of how he had taken his revenge on
Republicans who kept him at a distance and then lost their own races.

He said that one of them, Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, would "love to
have a job in the administration."

"I said, 'No, thank you,'" Mr. Trump said of Ms. Ayotte, who lost her Senate
seat to Gov. Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire. "She refused to vote for me."

He also criticized Representative Joe Heck of Nevada, who vacillated over
supporting Mr. Trump after an 11-year-old recordingsurfaced in which Mr. Trump
bragged in lewd terms about grabbing women without their consent.

"He went down like a lead balloon," Mr. Trump said of Mr. Heck. "I said, 'Off
the record, I hope you lose.'"

He said Republican leaders felt indebted to him for his surprise victory.

"Right now," Mr. Trump said, "they're in love with me."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.


Correction: November 22, 2016, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of a photo caption with this article misstated the timing of Donald J.
Trump's meeting with The Times. It was Tuesday, not Wednesday.

PHOTOS: President-elect Donald J. Trump in The New York Times's building after
an interview with reporters and editors on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD
HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Donald J. Trump defended Stephen K. Bannon,
his chief strategist, against charges of racism, calling him a "decent guy."
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/GETTY IMAGES) (A15)

Related Articles


     ·    Donald Trump's New York Times Interview: Full Transcript
     ·    Less Defiant Trump at The Times: 'I Hope We Can All Get Along'
     ·    Donald Trump's New York Times Interview in 12 Tweets
     ·    Donald Trump Drops Threat of New Hillary Clinton Investigation
     ·    At Donald Trump's Properties, a Showcase for a Brand and a
          President-Elect
     ·    Trump Inches Toward Naming Domestic Cabinet Members
     ·    Trump, on YouTube, Pledges to Create Jobs
     ·    Donald Trump's Business Dealings Test a Constitutional Limit


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             685 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump Drops Threat of New Hillary Clinton Investigation

BYLINE: JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS and MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1157 words



HIGHLIGHT: "Lock her up"? The president-elect signaled that he would prefer to
move on rather than pursue inquiries into Mrs. Clinton's email use and the
Clinton Foundation.


President-elect Donald J. Trump said on Tuesday that he had no intention of
pressing for an investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private email
server or the financial operations of her family's foundation, dropping the
"lock her up" pledge that became a rallying cry for his campaign for the White
House.

Mr. Trump, who branded his rival "Crooked Hillary" and said she would go to jail
if he were president, said in an interview with reporters and editors at The New
York Times that he was no longer interested in pursuing Mrs. Clinton, in part
because he wanted to heal the wounds of a divisive campaign.

"I don't want to hurt the Clintons, I really don't," Mr. Trump said during the
interview. "She went through a lot and suffered greatly in many different ways,
and I am not looking to hurt them at all. The campaign was vicious."

His reversal on prosecuting Mrs. Clinton was particularly striking given the
outsize role the issue played during the presidential campaign, in which her use
of a private email server as secretary of state became a prominent theme, and
one she has blamed for her loss to Mr. Trump.

Mr. Trump said he wanted to "move forward" from the subject. Without
elaborating, he said that "we'll have people that do things," perhaps a
reference to the F.B.I. or Republicans who might continue to press for
prosecutions in the email or foundation cases. But the president-elect made
clear that he would not seek to pursue an investigation himself nor make it a
priority after he assumes office.

The decision angered some of his most fervent supporters, who immediately
criticized his seeming change of heart.

"Broken Promise," blared the headline on Breitbart News, a conservative news
site that has strongly backed Mr. Trump.

"It's not something that I feel very strongly about," Mr. Trump said at The
Times, unlike health care or immigration. "This has been a very painful period
of time."

Clinton aides did not respond to a request for comment about Mr. Trump's
remarks.

During their second debate, Mr. Trump turned to Mrs. Clinton and vowed, "If I
win, I am going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to
look into your situation, because there's never been so many lies, so much
deception."

After Mr. Trump's turnaround on Tuesday, the conservative commentator Ann
Coulter, one of his staunchest supporters during the campaign, suggested on
Twitter that Mr. Trump was overstepping his role.

"Whoa! I thought we elected @realDonaldTrump president," she wrote. "Did we make
him the FBI, & DOJ? His job is to pick those guys, not do their jobs."

Tom Fitton, president of Judicial Watch, a conservative advocacy group that has
been a relentless critic of Mrs. Clinton, said on Tuesday that it would be a
mistake for Mr. Trump to drop the threat of appointing a special counsel to look
into her email use.

Mr. Fitton said that although the F.B.I. had already investigated the matter
twice, that inquiry was flawed. His group has gained access to thousands of
pages of Mrs. Clinton's State Department emails through lawsuits and is pressing
its case in court even after her defeat.

Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican who leads the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee, said last week on Fox News that his committee
would continue to investigate the matter as well because "we've got to get to
the truth." Mr. Chaffetz's office said on Tuesday he was unavailable for comment
about Mr. Trump's statements.

Although the F.B.I.'s email investigation is closed, the agency still has an
open inquiry into the Clinton Foundation. That inquiry began after the 2015
publication of "Clinton Cash," a book by Peter Schweizer that asserted that some
foreign entities had given money to the foundation in return for State
Department favors when Mrs. Clinton was there. The Clintons have denied the
assertions.

The F.B.I. and Justice Department conduct their criminal investigations largely
independently from the White House, so Mr. Trump cannot tell agents to close
their cases. A president ordering the F.B.I. to stop a politically sensitive
case would be a major scandal.

"It does seem like an extraordinary breach of protocol for him to get involved
in that decision," Glen A. Kopp, a former federal prosecutor in New York, said
of the president-elect. "I know of no recent circumstances when the president
ordered an attorney general not to pursue a criminal matter."

If, as president, Mr. Trump were to order the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey,
to close the foundation inquiry, Mr. Comey could choose to rebuff him. F.B.I.
directors are given 10-year terms to insulate them from political pressure, but
the president still has the power to fire a director, as President Bill Clinton
did with William S. Sessions in 1993 after a Justice Department investigation
uncovered ethical abuses by Mr. Sessions.

In an interview last week with CBS News's "60 Minutes," Mr. Trump said he had
not yet decided whether to dismiss Mr. Comey over his handling of the Clinton
email investigation, saying the director "may have had very good reasons for
doing what he did."

As a practical matter, though, Mr. Trump's remarks will probably have little
impact. The investigation into Mrs. Clinton's emails is already closed and,
while the one into her family's foundation remains open, senior F.B.I. officials
and career Justice Department officials have said there is little evidence
justifying moving forward with a case. When the case comes up for review, senior
agents and prosecutors may decide to shut it down, but it will not be because of
Mr. Trump's remarks.

While the president-elect's decision is likely to frustrate investigators at the
F.B.I., who are fiercely protective of their independence to follow the facts
they uncover, some legal experts applauded Mr. Trump's decision to not pursue
investigations into Mrs. Clinton's emails or her family foundation.

Rory K. Little, a professor at the University of California Hastings College of
the Law, said he was inclined to support both moves by Mr. Trump. A decision to
shut down an investigation, he said, "is not out of step with constitutional
constraints," as the Constitution gives the president the power to issue pardons
for federal crimes.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Reporting was contributed by Michael S. Schmidt, Jeremy W. Peters, Adam Goldman,
Matt Apuzzo, Eric Lichtblau and Adam Liptak.

PHOTO: Hillary Clinton at a Children's Defense Fund event in Washington on Nov.
16. Donald J. Trump said he would not seek to prosecute her, in part to heal the
wounds of a divisive campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)


Related Articles


     ·    Trump, in Interview, Moderates Views but Defies Conventions
     ·    Donald Trump's New York Times Interview: Full Transcript
     ·    Indian Business Partners Hope to Exploit Their Ties to Donald Trump
     ·    Trump, on YouTube, Pledges to Create Jobs


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             686 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Anti-Clinton Fake News Casts Pizzeria as Front for Crime;
Bits

BYLINE: PUI-WING TAM

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 243 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Washington pizzeria has been the victim of a barrage of false
articles on social media and fake news sites saying their pizzeria was a front
for a child trafficking ring led by Hillary Clinton.


The proliferation of fake news online has roiled the American presidential
election, politicians around the world and internet companies including Facebook
and Google.

So what happens when the fake news juggernaut also sweeps up ordinary citizens?

Cecilia Kang saw the fallout up close when she interviewed James Alefantis,
owner of the Comet Ping Pong pizzeria in Washington. Mr. Alefantis and his
employees have gotten caught up in a storm of fake news recently. A barrage of
false articles on social media and fake news sites said their pizzeria was a
front for a child-trafficking ring led by Hillary Clinton and her campaign
chief, John D. Podesta.

The stories - collected under the hashtag #pizzagate - have surprised Mr.
Alefantis. He was a supporter of Mrs. Clinton's and has prominent Democratic
friends in Washington, but has never met the former Democratic presidential
candidate, nor peddled children nor abused them.

The repercussions have been far-reaching. Mr. Alefantis, his friends and
employees are now dealing with a flood of nasty comments on social media,
threatening phone calls and even visits to their restaurant from people who say
they believe the fake news articles. Mr. Alefantis has gotten in touch with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the local police and many social media
companies to try to take down the fake items. He has had little success.

"It's endless," Mr. Alefantis said of the strange digital turn his life has
taken.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             687 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

A Jolt of Blue-Collar Hope;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 862 words



HIGHLIGHT: How to create better working-class jobs and fight the Great American
Stagnation.


NEW CASTLE, Del. - The nearby factory that made Dodge Durangos closed eight
years ago. The General Motors Boxwood Road Plant - open since 1947 - closed the
next year. So did the oil refinery in Delaware City.

In the span of a year during the financial crisis, once-prosperous northern
Delaware had to confront post-industrial devastation.

It's the sort of devastation that now has the country's attention. Donald Trump
won the presidency with huge margins in places left behind. He lost the popular
vote, but won 26 of the 30 lowest-income states, including the old powerhouses
of Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan.

These places are stuck in what I call the Great American Stagnation. Tens of
millions of people have experienced scant progress for decades. Median net worth
is lower than in the 1980s, and middle-aged whites, shockingly, aren't living as
long as they used to. Ending this stagnation is the central political problem of
our age: It fuels Trumpian anger and makes every other societal problem harder
to solve.

I came here to New Castle looking for a jolt of hope after the terribly
dispiriting presidential campaign. I came to see one of the more promising
attacks on the Great American Stagnation.

In the wake of the financial crisis, Delaware's new governor, Jack Markell, and
other officials did obvious things, like using stimulus money to stem the damage
and even managing to reopen the refinery. But Markell, who'd run as an insurgent
Democrat, understood that nostalgia alone wouldn't help families pay their
bills. So he began looking for ways both to save old jobs and to create new
ones. His answer wasn't original - but that's O.K., because it was right.

In his almost eight years in office, he has made his No. 1 priority lifting the
skills of Delaware's citizens. He worked on traditional education, expanding
high-quality pre-K and helping low-income teenagers go to college. And he worked
on what academic researchers like Robert Schwartz call "the forgotten half": the
many students who won't graduate from college but who also need strong skills to
find decent jobs. Their struggles are a major reason that America's work force
is no longer considered the world's most highly skilled.

It's too early for a final verdict in the state, but the signs are encouraging.
High school graduation rates have jumped. Educational attainment is above
average - as are incomes. The jobless rate is 4.3 percent.

New Castle, on the Delaware River, is telling, because it has focused on skills
while staying true to its blue-collar roots. It's home to the state's largest
high school, William Penn, which has long educated the children of workers from
General Motors and the refinery. By 2011, enrollment had fallen by nearly 20
percent as students fled for other options.

"People came out and said, 'The high school is not serving the community,'" the
former principal, Jeffrey Menzer, told me. "They wanted more career
opportunities, more hands-on stuff."

Markell makes a similar point: "A lot of kids who drop out of high school - they
don't drop out because they're not intelligent. They drop out because they think
what they're learning is not relevant to the rest of their lives."

William Penn reorganized itself into 20 different "majors," and every student
must pick one, be it manufacturing, computer science or agriculture. (The state
has a broader version of the program, called Pathways to Prosperity.) One goal,
of course, is to prepare students for a career. When William Penn tried to start
a nursing major, the state pushed back, pointing to a glut of such programs -
and the school started a medical-diagnostics major instead.

But having a major can also help students who don't know what they want to be
when they grow up. It connects book learning to real life. It can help launch
them into college or a certificate program and avoid the epidemic of academic
drift. No wonder enrollment at William Penn has improved.

Kiara Roach, a senior, told me that she didn't care about her grades, or do very
well, until she became passionate about cooking. (As she told me this, I was
enjoying a moist pork sandwich in a teacher cafe she helps run.) Mike Rodriguez,
who one day hopes to start a heating-and-cooling business, said: "I get bored in
class. I like standing up and working on something." Jacob Sobolesky, a junior,
told me: "There's only so much you can learn from word of mouth."

Many people in New Castle, not to mention the industrial Midwest, feel a deep
cultural connection to craftsmanship - to making things and working with their
hands. They're not inspired by working in cubicles or comfortable offices.

At the same time, they can't simply do as previous generations did and graduate
from high school into a good job. They can't bring back yesterday's economy.
They need blue-collar skill-building to thrive.

The country has failed to provide nearly enough of that skill-building, and
we're all living with the consequences.

You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily
email newsletter until the election and invite you to subscribe.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             688 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Fellow Trump Critics, Maybe Try a Little Listening;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 863 words



HIGHLIGHT: Let's take a break and see what's going on.


I've been thinking a lot about the best imaginable Trump voter. This is the
Trump supporter who wasn't motivated by racism or bigotry. This is the one who
cringed every time Donald Trump did something cruel, vulgar or misogynistic.

But this voter needed somebody to change the systems that are failing her. She
needed somebody to change the public school system that serves the suburban
children of professors, journalists and lawyers but has left her kids
under-skilled and underpaid. She needed some way to protect herself from the
tech executives who give exciting speeches about disruption but don't know
anything about the people actually being disrupted.

She is one of those people whom Joan C. Williams writes about in The Harvard
Business Review who admires rich people but disdains professionals - the
teachers who condescend to her, the doctors who don't make time for her, the
activists whose definition of social justice never seems to include the
suffering people like her experience.

This voter wants leaders tough enough to crack through the reigning dysfunction,
and sure enough, Trump's appointments so far represent the densest concentration
of hyper-macho belligerence outside a drill sergeant retirement home.

This voter wants a philosophic change of course, and Trump offers that, too. The
two party establishments are mired in their orthodoxies, but Trump and his
appointees are embodiments of the nationalism espoused by Pat Buchanan, the most
influential public intellectual in America today.

Buchanan's organizing worldview is embodied in visceral form in the person of
Steve Bannon.

"The globalists gutted the American working class and created a middle class in
Asia," Bannon said in his Hollywood Reporter interview. The new political
movement, he said, is "everything related to jobs."

He vowed to drive conservatives crazy with a gigantic spending program to create
jobs. He vowed to use that money to create a new New Deal that will win over 40
percent of the black and Hispanic vote, creating a neo-Jacksonian majority that
will govern for 50 years.

It's not my cup of tea, but I can see why some good people might be willing to
tolerate Trump and Bannon's personalities in order to pursue it.

Thinking about this best voter has helped me take an emotional pause. Many of my
fellow Trump critics are expressing outrage, depression, bewilderment or
disgust. They're marching or writing essays: Should we normalize Trump or fight
the normalizers?

It all seems so useless during this transition moment. It's all a series of
narcissistic displays and discussions about our own emotional states.

It seems like the first thing to do is really learn what this election is
teaching us. Second, this seems like a moment for some low-passion wonkery. It's
stupid to react to every Trump tweet outrage with your own predictable howls.
It's silly to treat politics and governance purely on cultural grounds, as a
high school popularity contest, where my sort of people denigrates your sort of
people.

We've arrived at the moment of actual governing. We've arrived at the moment
when Trump has to turn his vague notions into concrete proposals.

Trump promised to rip up the Iran deal, but he seems to be realizing there are
six other signatories and we've lost leverage with the Iranians because we
already gave them back their money.

Trump promises to repeal Obamacare, but how do you do that when it has already
been woven into the fabric of every health care system in America?

Whether it's reforming immigration or trade policy, his governing challenge is
going to be astoundingly hard and complicated. Surely this is not the moment to
get swept up in our own moral superiority, but rather to understand the
specificity of the proposals he comes up with and to offer concrete amendments
and alternatives to address the same problems.

Finally, surely a little universal humility is in order. Orthodox Republicans
spent the last 30 years talking grandly about entrepreneurialism while the
social fabric around their core voters disintegrated. Maybe a little government
action would have helped?

The Democratic Party is losing badly on the local, state and national levels. If
you were a football team you'd be 2-8. Maybe you can do better than responding
with the sentiment: Sadly, the country isn't good enough for us.

Those of us in the opinion class have been complaining that Trump voters are
post-truth, that they don't have a respect for expertise. Well, the experts
created a school system that doesn't produce skilled graduates. The experts
designed Obamacare exchanges that are failing. Maybe those of us in the
professional class need to win back some credibility the old-fashioned way, with
effective reform.

There will be plenty of time to be disgusted with Trump's bigotry, narcissism
and incompetence. It's tempting to get so caught up in his outrage du jour that
you never have to do any self-examination. But let's be honest: It wouldn't kill
us Trump critics to take a break from our never-ending umbrage to engage in a
little listening.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             689 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Not Your Grandmother's Wisconsin;
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: EMMA ROLLER

SECTION: OPINION; campaign-stops

LENGTH: 1432 words



HIGHLIGHT: How my home state became Trump country.


Correction Appended

Milwaukee - I love telling people I'm from Wisconsin. Maybe it's my defense
mechanism for when people accuse me of being a coastal elite, out of touch with
Real America. I like fulfilling all the Wisconsin stereotypes. I love cheese and
cheese curds, of course. I love our sports teams out of a vague sense of
homerism. And my accent (all hard A's) comes out in full force after ah coupl'ah
beers.

Mostly I love my grandma, who has called Wisconsin home for 88 years. Her
parents immigrated to Wisconsin from Germany, and she started public school
without knowing a word of English. She forgot most of the German her parents
taught her years ago, but taught me the words to the "Liechtensteiner Polka"
that we would sometimes hear when my family would go to a Friday night fish fry.

Up until Nov. 8, I still believed my state's moral baseline bent toward empathy.
The Wisconsin I thought I knew, where I lived for 21 years, was filled with
complex but fundamentally decent people who recognized that everyone is
deserving of respect and could disagree without being disagreeable. The state
did elect Scott Walker as governor in 2010, and the Republican-led legislature
gutted public-sector unions, setting off huge protests in the Capitol. But I
didn't think that state would vote for Donald J. Trump, turning its 10 electoral
votes to a Republican for the first time since 1984. (I mean, come on, we even
voted for Dukakis.)

As much as Mr. Trump won the election in Wisconsin, Hillary Clinton lost it. Her
campaign, which prided itself on employing all the data wizards and ground game
gurus money can buy, did not do nearly enough to lock down the upper Midwest,
particularly Wisconsin and Michigan, and instead treated those states as a
given.

Paul Soglin is the mayor of Madison, Wisconsin's capital city, in cerulean Dane
County. He supported Senator Bernie Sanders in the Democratic primary, and said
he talked at least once a week with a field organizer from the Sanders campaign
during the primary. But once Mrs. Clinton locked up the nomination, it was radio
silence from the Clinton campaign.

"Since I first held elected office in the early '70s, virtually every
presidential election, I've been contacted, either by the candidate or by a
staffer," he told me. "I'm not saying this to say I'm important. But the point
is, not only wasn't she in the state, but I never got a call, a contact,
anything after the primary."

President Obama, by contrast, made two campaign stops in Madison during the 2012
election, including a huge rally with Bruce Springsteen on the Monday before
Election Day.

Mr. Soglin's frustration with the Clinton campaign was apparent.

"I don't understand the strategy. I've never seen an explanation for it, other
than assuming that they wanted not just a victory, but a smashing victory -
actually, the kind that Donald Trump had," he said.

Wisconsin's voter turnout in 2016 was the lowest it's been in 20 years. Roughly
40,000 fewer Democrats voted in Milwaukee County this year than did in 2012.

The drop in turnout in Milwaukee County might be partially attributed to a voter
identification law in the state. In 2014, a federal judge found that roughly
300,000 registered voters in Wisconsin lacked the necessary photo ID card to
vote under the new law, and a "substantial number" of those voters were low
income. However, election watchers have said the voter ID law alone could not
have flipped the state in Mr. Trump's favor.

Mrs. Clinton did not visit Wisconsin once after the Democratic National
Convention in July. Neither did President Obama or Michelle Obama. Mr. Sanders
made multiple trips to the state on behalf of Mrs. Clinton, but that was not
enough to gin up voters' enthusiasm.

Like most of the country, my friends and family in Wisconsin were shocked that
Mr. Trump won the state, and the election. My mom says she's still in denial; my
dad has progressed comfortably to anger. My grandma, though, has been coping
with the election result with characteristic wit. "After listening to Donald
Trump speeches about hate, I was convinced it's O.K. to hate," she emailed me.
"Therefore, I hate Donald Trump."

Throughout the general election, the Clinton campaign's surrogates appeared
reassured to the point of hubris that they would be able to convert moderate
Republican voters in Midwestern suburbs.

"For every blue-collar Democrat we lose in western Pennsylvania, we will pick up
two moderate Republicans in the suburbs in Philadelphia, and you can repeat that
in Ohio and Illinois and Wisconsin," New York Senator Chuck Schumer said in
July.

This line of thinking was not just wrong, but disastrously so. In 2008, Barack
Obama won 59 of Wisconsin's 72 counties. This year, 59 counties voted for Donald
Trump. Republicans successfully built on the map that helped to elect Mr. Walker
to the governor's mansion while the Clinton campaign was looking to run up the
score in states like Arizona and Georgia.

A triumvirate of Wisconsin Republicans also helped elect Mr. Trump, both
actively and passively. First, there is Reince Priebus, who worked his way up
from Republican politics in Wisconsin to head the Republican National Committee,
and now, to serve as Mr. Trump's chief of staff. Then there is House Speaker
Paul D. Ryan, who now has a historic opportunity to pass his agenda through
Congress. Finally, Mr. Walker, recovered from his own failed presidential
campaign, will now oversee the Republican Governors Association.

Charlie Sykes is a longtime radio host in Milwaukee, who became a voice on the
right for the #NeverTrump movement. After 23 years on the air, he will retire
from his radio show this year. Along with being a vocal opponent of the Trump
campaign, he has taken on a new role as chief apologizer for right-wing media.

He expressed frustration with his listenership, who, he said, had gradually
grown immune to any inconvenient fact presented to them. While he read news from
The Washington Post, Politico and National Review throughout the election, his
audience seemed to glean most of its news from Fox News, talk radio and their
Facebook feeds.

On his radio program last week, Mr. Sykes played a sound bite of Adm. Michael S.
Rogers, current head of the National Security Agency, suggesting the Russian
government had made a "conscious effort" to sway the election in Mr. Trump's
favor. Mr. Sykes asked his listeners, "Can we all agree that this is a big deal
and we ought to do something about it?"

He opened the phone lines, and the first call was Steve from Waukesha, who said:
"I don't believe it. I don't believe any of it."

Mr. Sykes sighed. "You can't break through that," he said. "It is way harder to
knock that stuff down than you would think."

He says he is disappointed, but not surprised, to see conservative media falling
in line and supporting Mr. Trump's cabinet picks.

"This is the monster we've created," he said. "All of the worst elements of the
conservative media have now been empowered. Every one of them has got a strut.
Alex Jones now has a pipeline to the White House. I mean, think about this!"

Mr. Sykes spent half of 2016 arguing that Wisconsin conservatism was
fundamentally incompatible with what Mr. Trump was offering his party.

"Wisconsin conservatism has been distinctive, I think, in being aggressive but
substantive, and very, very policy-oriented, and also proving that you can do
things and be rewarded by the electorate," he said.

Mr. Trump has certainly been aggressive if not very policy-oriented, and he has
proved that you can run an atavistic, substance-free campaign and still win -
even in the mild-mannered Midwest.

The Wisconsinites I know don't like to argue about politics in general, and
certainly not at the Thanksgiving table. We are creatures of habit; we don't
like to make ourselves or others uncomfortable; we loathe confrontation. But
this year seems to bring with it a moral imperative to have uncomfortable
conversations about the very real stakes of this election. This year we may need
to break the habit, worry less about being nice and talk more about what it
means to be decent.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Emma Roller (@EmmaRoller) covered the 2016 campaign as a contributing opinion
writer.


Correction: November 22, 2016, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier
version of this article incorrectly referred to Michael S. Rogers as the head of
the National Security Administration, not the National Security Agency.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             690 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Mexico Doesn't Have to Appease Trump. It Can Fight Back.;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: JORGE G. CASTAÑEDA

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 968 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Mexican government has no reason to cooperate with a hostile
administration in Washington.


This year, for the first time since Ronald Reagan assailed the Soviet Union in
1980, an American presidential candidate actively campaigned against another
country's national interests. By threatening to deport all undocumented
immigrants, about half of whom are Mexican; to build a wall on the Mexican
border; and to rip up the North American Free Trade Agreement, which is far more
important for Mexico than for the United States, Donald J. Trump made Mexico one
of the central issues of the campaign.

How should Mexicans respond now that Mr. Trump has been elected?

President Enrique Peña Nieto has opted for a nonconfrontational approach. Since
his embarrassing invitation to and welcome of Mr. Trump in August, he has
repeatedly tried to accommodate Mr. Trump's demands. He has accepted reopening
discussion of Nafta and he has limited debate about "the wall" to who will pay
for it - not whether it should be built. Mr. Peña Nieto has said he will help
the Mexicans whom Mr. Trump says his administration will deport, but he has not
taken a firm stand against the deportations themselves.

Mexico doesn't have to appease Mr. Trump like this. It can fight back. It will
not win every battle, but it may achieve more through obstruction, and making
life miserable for the new president by increasing the cost of his anti-Mexican
policies, than it will achieve by appeasement.

On Nafta, Mexico should simply tell Washington that it refuses to renegotiate
the treaty. There may be reasons to create side agreements to supplement the
treaty and to address issues like currency devaluation or wages. But the idea of
renegotiating Nafta, as Mr. Trump says he intends to do, should be completely
unacceptable to the government of Mexico.

If the Trump administration, in return, threatens to leave Nafta, so be it. Mr.
Trump would be responsible for breaking up a deal that was maintained by three
American presidents, five Mexican ones and six Canadian prime ministers over the
past 22 years. And, despite some flaws, it has worked reasonably well.

The blame for withdrawing from the treaty would be his, and many American
commercial interests and political forces, including numerous Republicans, would
come to resent Mr. Trump for it. The damage to Mexico's economy would
undoubtedly be great. But a prolonged renegotiation of Nafta could potentially
do even more damage, with years of uncertainty discouraging investment in the
country.

Regarding deportations, Mexico can legally maintain that it will welcome back
only those people who the United States can prove are indeed Mexican. This would
have to take place while they were still in the United States.

Since many unauthorized Mexican immigrants have no documents, this would shift
the political and economic cost of deportation from Mexico to its northern
neighbor. There would be backlogs, litigation and crowded detention centers. The
news media would broadcast scenes of children separated from their parents who
are stuck in legal limbo.

This could amount to a humanitarian catastrophe, something no one wants to see.
But the comparison cannot be with the status quo; rather, it should be with the
millions of deportations promised by Mr. Trump. His supporters might not care,
but many other Americans would. The outcry could conceivably force him to
abandon detestable attempts at mass deportation.

And what about the wall that was so central to Mr. Trump's campaign? It is
absurd for Mexico to say it doesn't care as long as it doesn't pay for it. The
Mexican government should fully oppose its construction. Building a border wall
is a hostile act. It would send a terrible message to the world. The cost and
danger of crossing without papers would rise, making smuggling even more
lucrative for organized crime syndicates.

Once Mexico announces that it opposes the wall, the government should resort to
every legal, environmental, political, social, cultural and regional tool to
halt construction. It should mobilize binational communities in Arizona,
California, New Mexico and Texas against the construction of the wall, until the
price of pursuing this nonsensical idea becomes too high for Mr. Trump. These
binational cities, like Ciudad Juárez-El Paso, should hold demonstrations and
file lawsuits to try to ensure that a hostile American-built wall does not
divide them.

Finally, Mexico should take advantage of California's decision to legalize
recreational marijuana. Regardless of Mr. Trump's victory, the approval of the
proposition in the United States' most populous state makes Mexico's war on
drugs ridiculous. What is the purpose of sending Mexican soldiers to burn
fields, search trucks and look for narco-tunnels if, once our marijuana makes it
into California, it can be sold at the local 7-Eleven?

But with Mr. Trump's aggression against Mexico, there is an additional reason
for the country to adopt a pragmatic "wink and nod" attitude on marijuana
exports to the United States: The Mexican government has no reason to cooperate
with a hostile administration in Washington. Our authorities should instead
simply look the other way when it comes to marijuana.

None of these positions will be risk-free for Mexico. There could be American
reprisals, a backlash in some regions, and humanitarian crises. A weak and
unpopular Mexican government might not resist the Trump administration's
pressure. But if business as usual is not an option, these suggestions may be.
Leaders on both sides of the border should contemplate them.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Jorge G. Castañeda, Mexico's foreign minister from 2000 to 2003, is a professor
at New York University.

A fence separating Mexico and the United States, at Tijuana, Mexico, this month.
JORGE DUENES/REUTERS

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             691 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Facebook Said to Create Censorship Tool to Get Back Into China

BYLINE: MIKE ISAAC

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1314 words



HIGHLIGHT: The social network, blocked in China since 2009, has developed
software to keep posts from appearing in users' news feeds in specific
geographic areas, current and former employees said.


SAN FRANCISCO - Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, has cultivated
relationships with China's leaders, including President Xi Jinping. He has paid
multiple visits to the country to meet its top internet executives. He has made
an effort to learn Mandarin.

Inside Facebook, the work to enter China runs far deeper.

The social network has quietly developed software to suppress posts from
appearing in people's news feeds in specific geographic areas, according to
three current and former Facebook employees, who asked for anonymity because the
tool is confidential. The feature was created to help Facebook get into China, a
market where the social network has been blocked, these people said. Mr.
Zuckerberg has supported and defended the effort, the people added.

Facebook has restricted content in other countries before, such as Pakistan,
Russia and Turkey, in keeping with the typical practice of American internet
companies that generally comply with government requests to block certain
content after it is posted. Facebook blocked roughly 55,000 pieces of contentin
about 20 countries between July 2015 and December 2015, for example. But the new
feature takes that a step further by preventing content from appearing in feeds
in China in the first place.

Facebook does not intend to suppress the posts itself. Instead, it would offer
the software to enable a third party - in this case, most likely a partner
Chinese company - to monitor popular stories and topics that bubble up as users
share them across the social network, the people said. Facebook's partner would
then have full control to decide whether those posts should show up in users'
feeds.

The current and former Facebook employees caution that the software is one of
many ideas the company has discussed with respect to entering China and, like
many experiments inside Facebook, it may never see the light of day. The
feature, whose code is visible to engineers inside the company, has so far gone
unused, and there is no indication that Facebook has offered it to the
authorities in China.

But the project illustrates the extent to which Facebook may be willing to
compromise one of its core mission statements, "to make the world more open and
connected," to gain access to a market of 1.4 billion Chinese people. Even as
Facebook faces pressure to continue growing - Mr. Zuckerberg has often asked
where the company's next billion users will come from - China has been cordoned
off to the social network since 2009 because of the government's strict rules
around censorship of user content.

The suppression software has been contentious within Facebook, which is
separately grappling with what should or should not be shown to its users after
the American presidential election's unexpected outcome spurred questions over
fake news on the social network. Several employees who were working on the
project have left Facebook after expressing misgivings about it, according to
the current and former employees.

A Facebook spokeswoman said in a statement, "We have long said that we are
interested in China, and are spending time understanding and learning more about
the country." She added that the company had made no decisions on its approach
into China.

Facebook's tricky position underscores the difficulties that many American
internet companies have had gaining access to China. For years, companies like
Google and Twitter have been blocked there for refusing to yield to the
government's demands around censorship. In 2010, Google said it was directing
users of its search engine in China to its service in Hong Kong, because of
censorship and intrusion from hackers. Other companies, like the professional
social networking service LinkedIn, agreed to censor some content on their
platforms in China.

The current climate for internet companies in China may not help Facebook. In
August, the ride-hailing giant Uber gave up an expensive battle to crack the
Chinese market, selling its Chinese business to an incumbent rival, Didi
Chuxing. More broadly, China has streamlined and tightened its controls over the
internet under President Xi, targeting influential social media celebrities and
adding new reviews to popular online video sites.

Still, some officials responsible for China's tech policy have been willing to
entertain the idea of Facebook's operating in the country. It would legitimize
China's strict style of internet governance, and if done according to official
standards, would enable easy tracking of political opinions deemed problematic.
Even so, resistance remains at the top levels of Chinese leadership.

Some analysts have said Facebook's best option is to follow a model laid out by
other internet companies and cooperate with a local company or investor. Finding
a partner - and potentially allowing it to own a majority stake in Facebook's
China operation - would take the burden of censorship and surveillance off the
Silicon Valley company. It would also let Facebook rely on a local company's
government connections and experience to deal with the difficult task of
communicating with Beijing.

Facebook and Chinese officials have had intermittent talks in the last few years
about the social network's entering the market, according to employees who were
involved in the discussions, though the two sides have been unable to reach a
compromise.

Facebook currently sells advertising for some Chinese businesses from its Hong
Kong office. Among its customers are state-media sites that act as the
propaganda arm of the Chinese government, and that operate official accounts
where they post articles. Chinese citizens who wish to gain access to Facebook
must tunnel in using a technology known as a virtual private network, or VPN.

It's unclear when the suppression tool originated, but the project picked up
momentum in the last year, as engineers were plucked from other parts of
Facebook to work on the effort, the current and former employees said. The
project was led by Vaughan Smith, a vice president for mobile, corporate and
business development at Facebook, they said. Like Mr. Zuckerberg, Mr. Smith
speaks a smattering of Mandarin.

Unveiling a new censorship tool in China could lead to more demands to suppress
content from other countries. The fake-news problem, which has hit countries
across the globe, has already led some governments to use the issue as an excuse
to target sites of political rivals, or shut down social media sites altogether.

Over the summer, several Facebook employees who were working on the suppression
tool left the company, the current and former employees said. Internally, so
many employees asked about the project and its ambitions on an internal forum
that, in July, it became a topic at one of Facebook's weekly Friday afternoon
question-and-answer sessions.

Mr. Zuckerberg was at the event and answered a question from the audience about
the tool. He told the gathering that Facebook's China plans were nascent. But he
also struck a pragmatic tone about the future, according to employees who
attended the session.

"It's better for Facebook to be a part of enabling conversation, even if it's
not yet the full conversation," Mr. Zuckerberg said, according to employees.

Paul Mozur contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

PHOTO: President Xi Jinping of China, center, with Mark Zuckerberg, right, the
chief executive of Facebook, and Lu Wei, then China's Internet czar, in a 2015
gathering in Redmond, Wash. (POOL PHOTO BY TED S. WARREN) (A3)

Related Articles


     ·    Fake News in U.S. Election? Elsewhere, That's Nothing New
     ·    Facebook, in Cross Hairs After Election, Is Said to Question Its
          Influence
     ·    Uber to Sell to Rival Didi Chuxing and Create New Business in China
     ·    Facebook Profit Nearly Triples on Mobile Ad Sales and New Users
     ·    Google Shuts China Site in Dispute Over Censorship
     ·    With 'Smog Jog' Through Beijing, Zuckerberg Stirs Debate on Air
          Pollution


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             692 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump Rages, at the Wrong Target;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 588 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Trump should speak up against dangerous white nationalists
instead of admonishing the cast of "Hamilton."


Millions of Americans are justifiably frightened by the tide of racism,
anti-Semitism and xenophobia that has swept the country since the election of
Donald Trump, whose campaign stoked these views and who named Stephen Bannon of
Breitbart News his chief strategist in the White House.

The multiracial cast of the hit Broadway musical "Hamilton" spoke to that fear
in an impassioned but respectful way on Friday when it implored Vice
President-elect Mike Pence, who attended the show, to take seriously the
administration's responsibility to work on behalf of all Americans and to
"uphold our inalienable rights."

Mr. Trump raged on Twitter, falsely accusing the cast of harassing Mr. Pence and
demanding an apology. Mr. Trump's itchy Twitter finger, however, fell silent
when 200 or so white nationalists of the "alt-right" movement gathered on
Saturday at the Ronald Reagan federal building - a few blocks from the White
House - to celebrate his election with a very public coming-out party filled
with racist and anti-Semitic filth. Mr. Trump, who brought this group out of the
shadows during the campaign, has a duty to unequivocally denounce its toxic
propaganda.

As The Times's Joseph Goldstein reported on Monday, members of the movement held
11 hours of speeches and panel discussions. The conference culminated Saturday
evening in a speech by the movement's leading ideologue, Richard Spencer, who
accused the news media of attacking Mr. Trump during the campaign to protect
Jewish interests. Speaking of political commentators, he said, "One wonders if
these people are people at all, or instead soulless golem" - creatures of fable
that were set in motion by rabbis in time of danger.

Mr. Spencer quoted Nazi propaganda - in German - and reinforced his often-stated
view that America belonged to white people: "America was, until this last
generation, a white country designed for ourselves and our posterity. It is our
creation, it is our inheritance, and it belongs to us."

This speech echoed remarks Mr. Spencer made earlier last week in an interview
with NPR, when he said that his goal was to make the United States a "big empire
that would accept all Europeans" and be a "safe space" for white Americans,
Slavs, Celts and so on.

He went on in that interview to say that legal immigration - the lifeblood of
the United States - was the most damaging kind, apparently because the country
does not have a racial test that favors whites. He declined to condemn the Ku
Klux Klan, a group that promotes racial terror, because people wearing white
robes are merely "expressing themselves" or getting in touch with their
"identity as a European."

The young, suit-and-tie white supremacists who traveled to Washington had no
idea a year ago that their views would be getting a hearing in mainstream
political discourse, much less finding sympathy in the White House. But Mr.
Trump ensured that outcome by playing to white nationalism during the primaries,
then choosing as his campaign chairman Mr. Bannon, who managed the alt-right's
most visible platform.

The country now finds itself at a particularly dangerous moment, with advocates
of discrimination and hate emboldened as they have not been for decades. Given
the danger of violence and bigotry these groups pose, why would Mr. Trump, who
was so offended by the "Hamilton" cast's plea for tolerance, remain silent?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICOLE XU)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             693 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

How Conservative Sites Turn Celebrity Despair on Its Head;
Critic's Notebook

BYLINE: AMANDA HESS

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 1385 words



HIGHLIGHT: Conservative news outlets are busy cataloging the reactions of
aggrieved celebrities who are inadvertently energizing the opposition.


Throughout this bitter election campaign, liberal celebrities like Lady Gaga,
Jennifer Lawrence, Lena Dunham and Lin-Manuel Miranda used their powerful media
platforms to sing Hillary Clinton's praises. Now they've invited their online
followers to join them in processing her loss and protesting the impending
administration of Donald J. Trump.

"I want to live in a #CountryOfKindness where #LoveTrumpsHate," Lady Gaga wrote
on Twitter the day after the election. She added a photo of herself at a protest
outside Trump Tower in Manhattan, where she had climbed onto a truck in a
strapless black jumpsuit and raised a pro-Clinton sign.

While the angry tweets, therapeutic Instagram testimonials and fiery speeches
may comfort their fans, these left-leaning celebrities are also inadvertently
energizing the opposition. Conservative news outlets - most notably Breitbart
News Network, the right-wing populist enclave - are perfecting the art of
sapping Democratic stars' name recognition and repurposing their words and
actions into pro-Trump material. The enormous reach that celebrities enjoy, and
the privileged bubble they live in, is wielded against them here, refashioned as
evidence of the outsize control that the rich and famous have over regular
Americans.

This new battle in the culture wars is being waged not by bombastic, big-name
right-wing commentators like Rush Limbaugh, but by nimble, often nameless online
aggregators who quickly churn through popular culture and throw the most
evocative stories to their readers, often without much commentary. All it takes
is a pointed headline, an unflattering photo and a few well-chosen (and real)
quotes. Like this: "Lady Gaga Protests on Sanitation Truck Outside Trump Tower,"
read Breitbart's headline for its article on her tweet.

America is divided by its politics, its media, and as this election made even
clearer, by its celebrity influencers. In the weeks before the election, the
"Avengers" director Joss Whedon booted up his own online public service
announcement factory, Save the Day, and recruited stars like Robert Downey Jr.,
Don Cheadle and Scarlett Johansson to churn out web videos for Mrs. Clinton.
Katy Perry, America Ferrera, LeBron James and Beyoncé joined Democratic
candidate at rallies.

And when Vice President-elect Mike Pence caught a performance of the Broadway
hit "Hamilton" on Friday, one of the show's stars addressed him on behalf of
"the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new administration
will not protect us."

No offense to Paris Hilton and Pat Boone, but the president-elect doesn't have
the biggest stars on his side. Instead, Breitbart mostly uses its culture pages
to aim spitballs at Hollywood lefties. As part of its coverage of what it calls
Big Hollywood, the glamour of celebrities becomes grist for the site's
overarching narrative about the corrosive influence of the cultural elite.

The image Ms. Dunham posted to Instagram of a restorative trip to Sedona, Ariz.,
may have played as soothingly aspirational for an audience concentrated with
young, coastal women, but to Breitbart's demo, under the headline "'Grieving'
Lena Dunham Seeks Answers in Arizona Wilderness After Trump Win," it looks like
a damning shot of a celebrity who decided to jet into a red state for a quirky
vacation retreat.

As the "Hamilton" controversy raged, prodded by Mr. Trump's demand that the cast
apologize to Mr. Pence, Breitbart pointedly reminded readers of the private
fund-raiser Mr. Miranda hosted for Mrs. Clinton during the campaign, where
ticket prices ranged from $2,700 to $100,000. And just like that, a celebrity
speaking out against Mr. Trump becomes a point in his defense.

Breitbart's postelection Hollywood coverage appears largely to be a cool
cataloging of aggrieved celebrities, including Rick Ross (who just dropped a
video for the song "Free Enterprise," which includes a lyric that makes
reference to assassinating Mr. Trump). Beneath the surface of these articles,
though, is subtle signaling at work. A piece about a postelection Vice essay by
Jennifer Lawrence, in which she railed against the barriers still facing women
in the workplace, includes an underhanded accolade about her: She was "recently
named the highest-paid actress in Hollywood for the second straight year."

This recent headline - "'Depressed' Robert De Niro: Trump Election Makes Me
'Feel Like I Did After 9/11'" - packs a one-two punch, pairing the image of a
pathetic, weepy liberal with a flip attitude toward terrorism. Breitbart's
article on the Hamilton dust-up, titled "Tolerance: 'Hamilton' Cast Lectures
Mike Pence From Broadway Stage," is threaded with buzzwords - tolerance,
lectures, Broadway - that cast liberals as elite, pedantic hypocrites.

While Breitbart produces its share of original content - it ran an essay by Ann
Coulter ridiculing whining celebrities last week - most of the conservative
media outlets doing this work are scrappy, spammy and surprisingly banal. On
Regated, a bare-bones conservative aggregator, the "Hamilton" incident was
inflated into a full-blown class war: "Just like clockwork, the rich elitist
liberals come out to mock the poor. Hamilton cast members along with other
liberals took to Twitter to mock and bully the less fortunate people in
America."

But much of the text generated by these sites is barely politicized. The
conservative online outlet Patriotic Folks recently aggregated quotes from a
Lady Gaga essay, published in Harper's Bazaar, about how she was "depressed and
hurt" about Mr. Trump's remarks about women, and worked in just a whiff of
commentary: "Women are fighting for their lives because of the leaked 'Access
Hollywood' tape where Donald Trump makes lewd comments, or at least that's what
Lady Gaga thinks." Highlighting words like "hurt" and "depressed" works like a
low-frequency conservative dog whistle, signaling to readers who want to revel
in liberals' pain or ridicule them as emotional children.

Postelection, Breitbart may appear little different from any celebrity-news
aggregator. But the site's greater political context, as a breeding ground for
extremists, adds another layer. Breitbart is the site that boosted Stephen K.
Bannon to a thought leader. (Once the site's executive chairman, he took a leave
of absence to steer Mr. Trump's campaign and now has a top White House
position.) With that in mind, an article calling attention to Ms. Dunham's
Jewish faith feels like a bone thrown to the site's white nationalist readers.
And the catalog of slighted celebrities starts to read like something of a
star-studded enemies list.

The real ideological action is undertaken by the audience, whose members read
between the lines of these culture pieces and then scribble in the margins.
Breitbart's two posts on Ms. Dunham have amassed more than 10,000 comments,
including this insight: "Lena was an awesome Trump vote recruiter." Meanwhile,
the muted Patriotic Folks piece on Lady Gaga soon migrated to a pro-Trump
Facebook page that reaches millions, Make America Great Today, which shared it
with a baiting line, "More white women voted for Donald J. Trump than Hillary
Clinton."

Lefty celebrities have long been preaching to the choir, but they are
increasingly galvanizing the other side when their chatter is rerouted into an
online conservative echo chamber. A study last year by the Bowling Green State
University professors David Jackson and Melissa Miller found that celebrity
political statements were highly polarizing to a sample set of Ohio voters, and
that no celebrity - not Trace Adkins, not Ted Nugent, not even Oprah - was
likely to inspire net positive votes for his or her candidate of choice.

These right-wing aggregators make sure that any leftist celebrity's political
reach will be neutralized by a backlash from people who don't idolize and agree
with them. None of that is likely to stop celebrities from using their own
soapboxes to promote their politics. But they would be smart to consider how
their words will play on other platforms, too.

PHOTOS: Lady Gaga, protesting at Trump Tower, wrote on Twitter, "I want to live
in a #CountryOfKindness where #LoveTrumpsHate." (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOMINICK
REUTER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES); Breitbart News uses its culture
pages to aim spitballs at stars. (C4)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             694 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 22, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Gun Owners 'Can Breathe Again': Trump's Win Emboldens Advocates

BYLINE: MANNY FERNANDEZ and MITCH SMITH

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1396 words



HIGHLIGHT: Supporters of the Second Amendment, ecstatic that Hillary Clinton
lost, anticipate an expansion of gun rights with a Trump administration and a
Republican-led Congress.


HOUSTON - Before the election, gun rights activists were so worried Hillary
Clinton would win the presidency that some of them bought extra ammunition and
guns, fearing a crackdown on certain weapons, bullets and magazines.

They're not worried now. Instead, since the election of Donald J. Trump, gun
advocates have been rejoicing, crowing about their political clout and plotting
ways to eliminate many remaining curbs on gun ownership and use as they await
one of the most vocal pro-gun presidential candidates ever to enter the White
House.

"We've been threatened. We've been bullied. We've been ridiculed for eight
years," said Alice Tripp, legislative director of the Texas State Rifle
Association, the state affiliate of the National Rifle Association. "I expect
the tone to change. If tone sets policy, then we've got it made."

It was more than just the outcome of the presidential race. Gun advocates played
a role in flipping the State Senate in Iowa from blue to red and helped defeat a
ballot initiative in Maine that would have required universal background checks
for gun sales.

The National Rifle Association spent $50.2 million in seven races this year by
supporting Mr. Trump and six Republican Senate candidates, and it lost only one
race in Nevada, according to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics
and The Trace, a nonprofit news outlet that covers gun violence.

"Smart politicians all across the country are realizing that if we don't play
ball with the Second Amendment we will find ourselves unemployed," said Aaron
Dorr, executive director of Iowa Gun Owners, whose members distributed
information about candidates perceived as hostile to the Second Amendment in
five State Senate districts. In each, the Democratic incumbent lost.

In Kansas and Indiana, voters approved amendments enshrining the right to hunt
and fish in their Constitutions. And in Maine, David Trahan, executive director
of the Sportsman's Alliance of Maine, which opposed the ballot question on
universal background checks there, said concerns about restricting lawful gun
transfers and a sense that outsiders were dictating Maine's political process
had led to a backlash. The measure was backed by Everytown for Gun Safety, a
group founded in part by Michael R. Bloomberg, a former mayor of New York.

Supporters of gun control said the national situation was more nuanced than the
gun activists' jubilation suggested. They said it was impossible to say what
role gun issues had played in Mr. Trump's victory and disputed that the election
was a national referendum on gun rights. Of the four high-profile state ballot
measures, gun-control advocates won three and lost one, in Maine.

In Washington State, voters passed an initiative allowing for emergency court
orders to temporarily block the right to possess a gun for people perceived as
being at a higher risk of harming themselves or another person. Californians
passed a measure requiring background checks to buy ammunition. And Nevada
voters approved a ballot measure requiring background checks for almost all gun
transfers, beyond what is required by federal law.

Jennifer Crowe, who campaigned for the background check measure in Nevada, known
as Question 1, said concerns about homicides and unchecked online gun sales had
helped her side win despite opposition.

"The more we spoke about the online marketplace and how robust it is, the more
people seemed to understand the importance of Question 1 as a public safety
measure," Ms. Crowe said.

Erika Soto Lamb, a spokeswoman for Everytown for Gun Safety, which supported the
ballot items in Maine, Washington State and Nevada, said the only "true
referendums on how Americans view the issue of gun safety are the ballot
measures." She said the open discussion of gun control in the campaign and the
state-level wins suggested that "what has long been considered a third-rail
issue was in fact a winning issue."

Gun rights advocates say just the opposite, calling Mrs. Clinton's defeat a sign
that gun control is an untouchable issue and anticipating an expansion of gun
rights with a Trump administration and a Republican-majority Congress.

One of the policies being discussed would lift the restrictions that prohibit
service members on military bases and at recruiting centers from being armed.
Weapons rules at most military bases and centers prohibit service members who
are not police or security personnel from carrying firearms, and Mr. Trump has
said he supports banning so-called gun-free zones on military bases. The issue
gained new attention after shootings at military sites, including at Fort Hood,
Tex., and in Chattanooga, Tenn.

"If Nidal Hasan had had somebody shoot him back, he might have hurt and even
killed a few people, but he wouldn't have killed as many as he did," said
Valente Gonzalez, an administrator for the advocacy group Open Carry Texas in
the Houston area, referring to the gunman who killed 13 people at Fort Hood in
2009. "Disarming law-abiding people invites chaos."

Other policies include a national right to carry, which would allow those with
concealed-handgun permits in one state to have their permits honored in the
other 49 states. Such a move, known as national reciprocity, also has the
backing of Mr. Trump. There is also a push to make silencers easier and less
costly to purchase by removing them from the National Firearms Act.

"We want broad deregulation of firearms," said Dudley Brown, the president of
the National Association for Gun Rights. "It's high time Republican majorities
in the executive and legislative branches come in and make some broad, broad
changes. As the saying goes, 'Dance with the ones who brung ya.'"

Some gun owners were as surprised as anyone by Mr. Trump's upset victory. C .J.
Grisham, a retired Army sergeant and the president of Open Carry Texas, bought
two AR-15 rifles and an ammunition-making kit shortly before the election, out
of concern about a possible Clinton victory.

"A lot of people in the gun rights community can breathe again," he said. "I
don't think anybody is complaining that they went and bought extra guns."

Mr. Trump was outspoken about his support for gun rights. He boasted that his
two adult sons were avid hunters. One of his first policy papers was on the
Second Amendment, writing that the "government has no business dictating what
types of firearms good, honest people are allowed to own." And he talked about
his New York-issued license to carry a concealed weapon and suggested he was
prepared to use it.

"Somebody attacks me, oh, they're gonna be shocked," Mr. Trump said during a
speech in Tennessee in 2015, comparing any such attack to "Death Wish," the
1970s vigilante movie, and repeatedly using his right hand to pretend to pull a
pistol from his suit. "Can you imagine? Somebody says: 'Oh, there's Trump. He's
easy pickings.'"

Although Mr. Trump won the endorsement of the N.R.A., his support among gun
activists was not universal. Some were skeptical of him, citing comments he had
made in years past that he supported an assault-weapons ban. Others noticed that
Mr. Trump's plan for his first 100 days in office, released before the election,
did not include any gun issues. And at least one of his gun initiatives - a
national right to carry - has been criticized by gun advocates who do not want
the federal government involved in concealed-carry permitting. Some gun
activists said the election was as much about defeating Mrs. Clinton as it was
about supporting Mr. Trump.

"Whether they were supportive of Trump or not - and I know many who were not -
they were more concerned about what a Clinton presidency would do," said Rod
Moeller, president of the Nebraska Firearms Owners Association.

Manny Fernandez reported from Houston, and Mitch Smith from Chicago.

PHOTOS: A woman browsed pistols at a gun show in Fort Worth. Supporters of gun
rights anticipate an expansion of them with a Republican-led Congress.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (A12); Valente Gonzalez, an
administrator for the advocacy group Open Carry Texas, said, "Disarming
law-abiding people invites chaos." (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN HULL FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A16)

Related Articles


     ·    A Militia Gets Battle Ready for a 'Gun-Grabbing' Clinton Presidency
     ·    Gun-Control Groups Push Growing Evidence That Laws Reduce Violence
     ·    Gun Control Groups Divide Their Loyalties in Senate Races


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             695 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Nikki Haley, Martin Schulz, Black Friday: Your Thursday Briefing;
Europe Edition

BYLINE: PATRICK BOEHLER

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1110 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

President-elect Donald J. Trump moved to diversify his cabinet, selecting Gov.
Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, above, to be the U.S. ambassador to the U.N.
and Betsy DeVos, a prominent Republican philanthropist, for education secretary.

He is also nearing an announcement of Ben Carson to the post of secretary of
housing and urban development.

Ms. Haley, a 44-year-old Indian-American, is the first female governor of South
Carolina. Both she and Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon who ran against Mr.
Trump in the Republican primary, have clashed with Mr. Trump.

_____

It is Thanksgiving in the United States on Thursday, and Mr. Trump will spend
the holiday holding meetings in Mar-a-Lago, his upscale club in Florida.

The use of his vast real estate holdings is raising questions about whether he
is exploiting the high profile of the presidency to draw attention to his
properties.

Hillary Clinton has widened her lead in the popular vote to 1.5 percentage
points, a spread not seen for a losing candidate since the disputed election of
1876.

_____

The European Parliament is expected to vote today to suspend negotiations on
bringing Turkey into the European Union after criticism of the country's
crackdown on the press and other freedoms.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan reacted bitterly. "The E.U. Parliament resorting
to such a vote means it takes terror organizations under its wings, it takes
sides with them," he said.

_____

Britain's government defended its revised, lower expectations on the country's
economic growth, but supporters of the decision to leave the E.U. criticized the
outlook as too gloomy.

Philip Hammond, the chancellor of the Exchequer, cast aside the language of
austerity and shelved a pledge by his predecessor to balance the budget by 2020.

_____

Air pollution causes 467,000 premature deaths in Europe every year, the European
Environment Agency estimated.

This month, a suffocating cloud of pollution also settled over Delhi, India. Our
correspondent visited two families at opposite ends of the economic spectrum to
see how they coped with the crisis there.

_____

Business

A 48-hour pilots' strike at Lufthansa will be extended through today. More than
215,000 travelers have been affected, the airline said.

Airbus is preparing the first flight of its newest airplane, the A350-1000, in
Toulouse, France, today.

Tomorrow is Black Friday, which kicks off the holiday shopping frenzy in the
U.S.

Americans are expected to spend $632 billion this holiday season, up from $607
billion last year. For the first time, more than half that growth will come from
online shopping.

The exuberant reaction of financial markets to the U.S. presidential election
has solidified expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates
in mid-December.

U.S. markets will be closed for the holiday on Thursday. Here's a snapshot of
global markets.

In the News

Thomas Mair, a Briton with a history of extremist right-wing beliefs, was
convicted on Wednesday of murdering the lawmaker Jo Cox in June. [The New York
Times]

Donald Trump Jr., the president-elect's eldest son, privately discussed
cooperation with Russia on the war in Syria with diplomats, businessmen and
politicians in Paris last month. [The Guardian]

Martin Schulz, the president of the European Parliament, announced his return to
national politics in Germany today. The Social Democrat could run against
Chancellor Angela Merkel in next year's elections or replace Frank-Walter
Steinmeier as foreign minister. [Euronews]

The commander of the Estonian Navy has resigned after a warship was found to be
carrying smuggled alcohol and cigarettes. [BBC]

An experimental Alzheimer's drug that had previously appeared to show promise in
slowing the deterioration of thinking and memory has failed in a large clinical
trial. [The New York Times]

Mahmoud Abou Zeid, a photojournalist imprisoned in Egypt, received an
International Press Freedom Award. Here's a look at his work. [The New York
Times]

Noteworthy

Champions League: FC Rostov, in its first victory in soccer's most glamorous
club competition, defeated Bayern Munich. Atlético Madrid defeated P.S.V.
Eindhoven, 2-0. A tie between Napoli and Dynamo Kyiv was followed by violent
clashes in the streets of Naples.

"Anselm Kiefer in China" is running in Beijing, but Mr. Kiefer wants no part of
it. The German artist said the organizers did not get his permission for the
show.

Our latest 360 video looks at a San Francisco restaurant that hosts a holiday
meal for its employees and serves Burmese delicacies.

Ancient turkey eggs found in a fortress in Mexico suggest that humans
domesticated the birds at least 1,500 years ago.

In 14th-century Prague, Beatrice of Bourbon and her baby, Duke Wenceslaus I,
became the first mother and child to both survive a cesarean section, it is now
believed.

And the eight-line poem by Anne Frank we told you about yesterday? It fetched
about $148,000 at auction.

Back Story

More than a billion tons of food is wasted each year, according to the U.N., and
the United States is the among the biggest offenders.

The country wastes about 400 pounds of food per person, yet one in seven
Americans goes hungry each day, one estimate finds.

But amid the gloomy news, a recent report by Harvard University outlined several
innovative efforts taking place worldwide to minimize waste.

A pair of apps attack the problem in two ways. One in San Francisco locates
places with unused food so that it can be driven to shelters and churches.
Another serving the European Union alerts consumers to deals on items nearing
their expiration dates.

Inhospitable climates can also contribute to food waste. A solar-powered
refrigerator has been used to preserve food in a particularly hot region of
India.

Sometimes it's a matter of looks. Fruits and vegetables are often tossed because
they're misshapen. A company in Germany picks up "odd-looking" edibles and cooks
them for catered events.

The kitchen is also a focal point of a three-pronged program in Washington.
Unemployed residents are trained to be chefs. Using unwanted food, they make
meals for the homeless.

As for how we can reduce food waste at home, an expert offers a simple tip: Buy
less and freeze more.

Kenneth R. Rosen contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of
the briefing should help.

The Europe Edition of the Morning Briefing won't be published on Friday because
of the Thanksgiving holiday, but we will be back Monday.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             696 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Latest Fed Discussion Reflects More Confidence in Raising Rates

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 948 words



HIGHLIGHT: Officials emphasized that the Fed was planning a slow retreat. And it
sounded a cautionary note about the strength of growth in the third quarter.


WASHINGTON - When Federal Reserve officials convened just before the
presidential election, they talked like people who were ready to raise interest
rates, although they decided to wait a little longer.

They fretted about the growing risks of keeping borrowing costs at a
historically low level, according to an account of the meeting that the Fed
published on Wednesday. They also expressed confidence, albeit with some
reservations, that the economy was ready for higher rates.

The exuberant reaction of financial markets to Donald J. Trump's victory has
strengthened the case for higher rates, and solidified expectations that the Fed
will act at its next meeting in December.

The early November meeting was something of a placeholder. The Fed was seen as
unlikely to move on the eve of the election. Officials had decided they were not
quite ready to raise rates at their previous meeting, in September, and the
account noted that they did not have much new data to consider.

But the latest meeting's account portrays a sense of growing urgency among the
17 members of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed committee that sets the
course of monetary policy.

"Many judged that risks to economic and financial stability could increase over
time if the labor market overheated appreciably, or expressed concern that an
extended period of low-interest rates risked intensifying incentives for
investors to reach for yield, potentially leading to a mispricing of risk and
misallocation of capital," it said. The account was published after a standard
three-week delay.

The Fed said that the case for a rate increase had "strengthened" after the
November meeting. Janet L. Yellen, the Fed's chairwoman, went a little further
last week, telling a congressional committee that an increase in the Fed's
benchmark interest rate "could well become appropriate relatively soon."

The meeting account is in the same key. Two officials voted to raise rates in
November, and the minutes said others were already convinced that the Fed should
move in December, given its stated objectives. Moreover, the account said, "Most
participants expressed a view that it could well become appropriate to raise the
target range for the federal funds rate relatively soon, so long as incoming
data provided some further evidence of continued progress toward the committee's
objectives."

Markets have received the message. Some analysts warned before the election that
Mr. Trump's victory could upset financial markets and lead the Fed to push back
a rate increase. So far, the opposite has happened. Markets have rallied and
expectations of a December rate increase have solidified. The probability
derived from asset prices stood at 94 percent on Wednesday.

Investors are responding in part to Mr. Trump's economic plans. He has promised
to collaborate with congressional Republicans on a large tax cut and other
measures intended to stimulate economic growth. Fed officials have all but
begged for fiscal authorities to take a stronger hand, in part because they are
eager to dial back their own efforts, and push rates up toward more normal
levels.

Yet the markets' reaction to Mr. Trump's victory also creates some new problems.

"The timing and scope of these actions is still highly uncertain," said James
Marple, senior economist at TD Bank. "In the meantime, interest- and
exchange-rate sensitive sectors of the economy like housing and trade will take
a hit, suggesting some downside risk to economic growth."

The Fed has kept its benchmark rate between 0.25 and 0.5 percent since last
December. The policy is intended to bolster economic activity by encouraging
borrowing and risk-taking, but it has raised concerns that the Fed is
encouraging too much borrowing and risk-taking.

In addition, Fed officials have concluded that labor market conditions are
unlikely to further improve, although the share of adults with jobs is
significantly below the prerecession level.

The account takes pains to emphasize that the Fed is planning a slow retreat.
And it sounded a cautionary note about the strength of growth in the third
quarter. The economy expanded at an annual rate of 2.9 percent, but Fed
officials pointed to a number of unusual factors, including a boom in soybean
exports.

"Excluding these factors, underlying economic growth had been relatively
modest," the account said. "Growth of consumer spending had slowed from its
brisk pace earlier in the year, residential investment had fallen again, and
business fixed investment had remained soft."

Inflation has increased a little faster than the Fed expected in recent months,
although it remains below the 2 percent annual pace that the Fed regards as
healthy. Some officials advocating a rate increase argue that inflation will
begin to rise more quickly as labor markets tighten. That, in turn, could force
the Fed to raise rates more quickly, potentially disrupting economic activity.

But the Fed's concerns about inflation remain relatively subdued. Ms. Yellen
told Congress last week that she saw little chance of a sharp rise in inflation.
The weakness of the global economy continues to weigh on domestic inflation, in
part by pushing up the value of the dollar.

Mr. Trump's election also has pushed the dollar sharply higher.

PHOTO: Janet L. Yellen, in testimony to the Joint Economic Committee last week,
said that an interest rate increase "could well become appropriate relatively
soon." (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    Yellen: Too Soon to Predict Economic Effects of Election
     ·    Fed Signals It's on Track to Raise Interest Rates in December
     ·    It's Not Just the White House. Change Is in the Air on Wall St., Too


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             697 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Hillary Clinton Supporters Call for Vote Recount in Battleground States

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1453 words



HIGHLIGHT: Her supporters have seized on reports by experts suggesting that
Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin should manually review paper ballots.


Hillary Clinton's lead in the popular vote is growing. She is roughly 30,000
votes behind Donald J. Trump in the key swing states of Michigan and Wisconsin -
a combined gap that is narrowing. Her impassioned supporters are now urging her
to challenge the results in those two states and Pennsylvania, grasping at the
last straws to reverse Mr. Trump's decisive majority in the Electoral College.

In recent days, they have seized on a report by a respected computer scientist
and other experts suggesting that Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, the keys
to Mr. Trump's Electoral College victory, need to manually review paper ballots
to assure the election was not hacked.

"Were this year's deviations from pre-election polls the results of a
cyberattack?" J. Alex Halderman, a computer science professor at the University
of Michigan who has studied the vulnerabilities of election systems at length,
wrote on Medium on Wednesday as the calls based on his conclusions mounted.
"Probably not."

More likely, he wrote, pre-election polls were "systematically wrong." But the
only way to resolve the lingering questions would be to examine "paper ballots
and voting equipment in critical states," he wrote.

Tellingly, the pleas for recounts have gained no support from the Clinton
campaign, which has concluded, along with outside experts, that it is highly
unlikely the outcome would change even after an expensive and time-consuming
review of ballots.

But that has not quieted Mrs. Clinton's supporters, who see the inequity of her
growing lead in the national popular vote, which is now more than two million
votes, or 1.5 percent of all ballots cast, according to the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report, which regularly updates its count as states continue to tally
and to certify votes.

Since there is currently no effort to review the paper ballots - which exist in
Michigan and Wisconsin, but only in parts of Pennsylvania - conspiracy theories
about the 2016 election may live on for years. After United States intelligence
agencies accused Russia of trying to influence the election by stealing and
publishing emails from the Democratic National Committee and a range of other
institutions and prominent individuals, the United States went on high alert to
determine if there was any attempt to sabotage the vote count. So far, no one in
the Obama administration has indicated that there is any such evidence.

In the three battleground states, Mrs. Clinton is behind by 1.2 percent or less,
and the final results have not yet been certified.

Uniting around the social media hashtag #AuditTheVote, the
campaign-after-the-campaign has picked up momentum among grass-roots activists
still mourning Mr. Trump's victory and who echo, paradoxically, his pre-election
complaint that the vote was "rigged."

"Based on the information of the intelligence community that Russia was actively
trying to screw around with our election, I thought why not take the time and
question this," said Michelle Zuckerman-Parker, an engineer in Pittsburgh, who
on Wednesday planned to petition her county election board for a recount of the
Nov. 8 vote.

That view spread quickly on social media on Tuesday evening when New York
magazine published an article about Professor Halderman and others who had
contacted the remnants of the Clinton campaign. It also generated pushback by
experts who said that even though it was theoretically possible to hack voting
machines, it would be enormously difficult - because it would have to be highly
targeted in key precincts and conducted on a scale required to assure Mr.
Trump's victory.

"Left-wing conspiracy theories of vote rigging" are "pathetic," Dave Wasserman
of the Cook Political Report saidon Twitter.

Time may have already run out. Pennsylvania allows individual voters to petition
for a recount, but the deadline was Sunday, said Wanda Murren, a spokeswoman for
the Pennsylvania Department of State. A candidate can also contest an election
in court, and the deadline is Monday.

Michigan and Wisconsin have not reached their deadlines for seeking a recount,
but they will in days. So far, Mrs. Clinton has not requested any action, said
Reid Magney, a spokesman for the Wisconsin Elections Commission.

Until the publication of Professor Halderman's work, Clinton supporters had few
reasons to hope. He did not offer them much: He noted that while the voting
machines used in those states are not connected to the internet during the
election, they are programmed before the election. The data is usually
transferred on a USB stick or other data card.

"If attackers can modify that software by infecting the machines with malware,
they can cause the machines to give any answer whatsoever," Professor Halderman
wrote.

The problem, as Bruce Schneier, a security expert who has written often on the
issue, noted in an interview, is that the usual triggers for a recount - a very
close margin between two candidates - make little sense in a world of
state-sponsored computer hackings. A truly sophisticated hacking would result in
a wider margin of victory that would not set off an automatic recount.

Mrs. Clinton would have to triumph in all three states to win the Electoral
College. The electors will meet in December to formally choose the president.
And there, Mr. Trump is ahead by 290 votes to Mrs. Clinton's 232, with Michigan
still officially uncalled.

As of Wednesday, Mr. Trump's lead in Michigan had shrunk to 10,704 votes, or 0.2
percent, according to the National Popular Vote Tracker maintained by the Cook
Political Report.

Mr. Trump's lead in Wisconsin has narrowed to 22,525 votes, or 0.8 percent. In
Pennsylvania, his lead slightly grew on Wednesday, to 70,010, or 1.2 percent.

The Clinton campaign did not respond to requests for comment. Other Democrats
said it was time to move on.

"I'm not sure it's possible to undo the results, and all the people are focusing
their energy on opposing the worst ideas of this administration at this point,
not the legitimacy of the results," said Daniel Doubet, an organizer for
Keystone Progress, a liberal group in Pennsylvania.

Those pushing for a recount say they are trying to pick up the fight for a tired
and demoralized candidate and her staff.

"The Democratic Party and the Hillary campaign are exhausted, and they're really
hurting, and they may not have the clarity," said Ms. Zuckerman-Parker, who
briefly volunteered for the Clinton campaign.

On social media, supporters pleaded with the campaign to act. "Please
@HillaryClinton @timkaine call for #AuditTheVote," wrote Writerchick on Twitter,
appealing to Mrs. Clinton and her running mate, Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia.
"We are all working so hard for you, make the call, the nation is depending on
you."

By poring over local election results online, the Audit the Vote crowd uncovered
what appeared to be anomalies in the counting. Helen Manich of National Harbor,
Md., for one, noticed that Sauk County, Wis., reported that 31,838 ballots were
cast overall, but the total votes for presidential candidates numbered 34,323.

Such glitches are not uncommon, election experts said. They are usually ironed
out in the process of certifying results. Although those certifications might
change the results by several hundred or several thousand votes, they are highly
unlikely to move tens of thousands.

To shift the Electoral College, Mrs. Clinton would not only have to reverse her
current deficits in Wisconsin and Michigan but also in Pennsylvania, which
experts say is highly unlikely.

There is widespread confusion on social media about how recounts are generated.
A flood of Twitter users have urged Clinton supporters to call the United States
Department of Justice, even though it is states that certify election results.

Ms. Zuckerman-Parker was furiously trying to organize voters around the states
to file petitions demanding a recount this week.

"It's like this fever approach happening in the last few hours," Melissa Lang of
Allegheny County, Pa., said on Tuesday, describing her efforts to reach out to
voters across the state using social media.

But Ms. Murren, the Pennsylvania State Department spokeswoman, said the deadline
for such petitions had come and gone.

"Our staff is not aware of any petitions for precinct-level recounts in the
presidential race," she said.

Get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing
newsletter.

PHOTO: An election night party hosted by the Pennsylvania Democratic Party in
Philadelphia. Donald J. Trump won the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK MAKELA FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Many in Milwaukee Neighborhood Didn't Vote - and Don't Regret It
     ·    After a Fraught Election, Questions Over the Impact of a Balky Voting
          Process


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             698 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Trump to Accept Inauguration Funds From Corporations and Big Donors

BYLINE: NICHOLAS FANDOS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1352 words



HIGHLIGHT: The move represents a continued march back from standards set in 2009
and complicates the president-elect's pledge to eliminate influence from special
interests.


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald J. Trump will allow corporations and wealthy
individuals to make large donations to fund the activities surrounding his
inauguration, complicating his promise to eliminate special interests from
influencing his government.

Mr. Trump plans to ban money from registered lobbyists, whom he has purged from
his transition team and barred from working for his administration. But the
restrictions will be lighter on corporations and individuals - the groups that
have traditionally provided a vast majority of funding for the festivities
surrounding the transfer of power.

The restrictions, which members of the Presidential Inaugural Committee
cautioned have yet to be finalized, represent a continued march back from
standards set in 2009, when President-elect Barack Obama banned gifts from
lobbyists, political action committees and corporations, and put a cap of
$50,000 on individuals.

Mr. Obama relaxed his own rules in 2012, after what was then the most expensive
presidential campaign in history had depleted his donor base, lifting the ban on
corporate gifts and restrictions on the size of those from individuals.

Mr. Trump, who like Mr. Obama campaigned on reducing the influence of money in
politics, appears poised to relax them further.

Officials planning the inauguration said Mr. Trump would solicit corporate
donations up to $1 million and allow money to be transferred from political
action committees on a case-by-case basis. The inaugural committee has not
reached a decision on where to cap gifts from individuals, if at all.

All told, Mr. Trump hopes to raise roughly $65 million to $75 million to fund
the parade, balls and other festivities surrounding his swearing-in as
president, according to several people involved in the planning efforts.

Such a fund-raising total, if it materializes, would easily surpass the $43
million Mr. Obama's team raised for his 2013 inauguration and the $53 million, a
record, that it raised for his first inauguration in 2009.

Thomas Barrack Jr., a private equity investor who is heading the committee
responsible for planning the events surrounding Mr. Trump's inauguration on Jan.
20, said the decision to limit donations from certain groups was "in line with
the president-elect's thoughts on ethics reform."

But campaign finance experts said the restrictions left much to be desired,
targeting groups that traditionally provide little funding for the occasion
while seemingly letting bigger donors - including corporate interests that Mr.
Trump took aim at on the campaign trail - off the hook.

"For the most part, they are illusory, because they are restricting money that
doesn't really play any significant role in funding the inauguration," said Fred
Wertheimer, a longtime advocate of campaign finance overhaul, referring to the
restrictions on lobbyists and foreign interests.

The corporate and individual money that does traditionally play a significant
role, he added, would be allowed to flow more or less unabated, leaving the
potential of undue influence in place.

"You can't have a more ideal opportunity to buy influence and ingratiate
yourself with a new administration than by giving a huge contribution to pay for
their inauguration," Mr. Wertheimer said.

Bob Biersack, a senior fellow at the Center for Responsive Politics, was more
forgiving toward Mr. Trump, but he said it would take a fundamental change in
the way inaugurations were funded to meaningfully root out special interests.

"I don't find it fundamentally inconsistent with what he is saying," he said. "I
just think the rhetoric and the reality are different."

Presidential transition committees, which coordinate and finance most of the
festivities that surround the federally funded swearing-in ceremony, face few of
the fund-raising restrictions campaigns do, and their practices vary from
president to president.

President George W. Bush did not restrict who could support his inaugural
festivities, but he put caps on gifts.

The committee is still in the early stages of assembling what will be an
operation employing hundreds of people responsible for planning dozens of
events. As of Wednesday morning, the fund-raising packages that are typically
used to solicit donations were still being vetted by lawyers, and subcommittees
were still taking shape to handle issues like security and entertainment.

"It's like putting on the Olympics in 61 days," Mr. Barrack said, adding that
the committee was racing to finalize plans by the end of the week.

Two people working with the committee said it planned to roll out tiered giving
packages next week, most likely ranging from $25,000 to $1 million, that will
reward donors with progressively more access to more intimate events with Mr.
Trump and his team. The committee is planning to hold two official balls,
according to two people involved in the planning. By comparison, Mr. Obama
attended 10 official balls in 2009.

Mr. Trump is not expected to donate to the festivities himself, as he did to the
campaign, according to members of the committee, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss plans that had not been finalized.

Sara Armstrong, a longtime Republican National Committee official who helped
plan the Republican National Convention in Cleveland this summer, has been
appointed chief executive and is leading the team that Mr. Barrack said would
eventually total 350 people out of an office building just off the National
Mall. As of Wednesday, the committee had hired about 100 people, he said.

The committee includes generous donors to Mr. Trump's campaign, like Woody
Johnson, the owner of the New York Jets; Gail Icahn, the wife of the investor
Carl Icahn; and the casino magnate Sheldon Adelson and his wife, Miriam. Several
stalwart backers of Republican causes, like Stephen A. Wynn and Lewis M.
Eisenberg, are on the committee, as is Brian Ballard, Mr. Trump's longtime
Florida lobbyist.

The overall cost of the inauguration and related festivities is likely to run to
as much as $200 million. Most of that burden will fall on taxpayers, though, who
fund everything from security to the swearing-in ceremony and inaugural luncheon
organized by a joint committee of Congress.

Mr. Trump's team said it was expecting two million to three million people to
flood Washington for the ceremony, a crowd that could surpass the 1.8 million
estimated to have been on hand for Mr. Obama's first inauguration, which was a
record. Planners are also expecting more protesters than usual around the event.

Mr. Barrack said Mr. Trump had instructed him to plan events tailored to the
political moment.

"It's one of the greatest opportunities that this president has to put his
fingerprints on bridging the divide," Mr. Barrack said on Wednesday.

Mike Litterst, a spokesman for the National Park Service, which controls the
Mall and other public spaces where the inauguration will take place, said on
Monday that the Park Service did not expect to meet with officials from the
group until after Thanksgiving.

But across Washington, the physical preparations for Jan. 20 are well underway,
even as the city's political establishment is struggling to come to terms with
the election outcome.

Capitol architects have been hammering away since September on the more than
10,000-square-foot inaugural platform overlooking the Mall. And outside the
White House, Park Service staff members are at work on the presidential
reviewing stand where Mr. Trump will review his inaugural parade.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.

PHOTO: Workers building the presidential reviewing stand on Tuesday in
Washington for the inaugural parade. Most of the inauguration costs fall on
taxpayers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Diversifies Cabinet; Picks Nikki Haley and Betsy DeVos
     ·    In Betsy DeVos for Education, Trump Taps Into Michigan Royalty
     ·    Trump Inches Toward Naming Domestic Cabinet Members
     ·    Trump Turns Staid Process Into Spectacle as Aspirants Parade to His
          Door


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             699 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

My Chance to Interview Trump Was Nearly Derailed by a Tweet

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: INSIDER

LENGTH: 966 words



HIGHLIGHT: The interview gets canceled in the morning, as do the train tickets.
Then it's back on, and everybody scrambles in a race from D.C. to New York.


Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights from The New York Times.

WASHINGTON - The day started early. Four of us from the Washington bureau were
part of a team set to interview President-elect Donald J. Trump over lunch at
The New York Times headquarters in Manhattan. Our first step? Get to New York.

Our plan was easy: Take Amtrak's 8 a.m. Acela, the high speed train from D.C. to
New York Penn Station, and walk eight blocks up 8th Avenue to the Times
building. The train was scheduled to arrive shortly before 11 a.m., well ahead
of the 1 p.m. start to the luncheon interview. We planned to strategize on the
train about potential questions and follow-ups for Mr. Trump, and could write on
our laptops if other news broke that morning.

Then Mr. Trump tweeted at 6:16 a.m.:

I cancelled today's meeting with the failing @nytimes when the terms and
conditions of the meeting were changed at the last moment. Not nice - Donald J.
Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 22, 2016

A flurry of emails ensued. "Really? Is this fake news? It matters for what
outfit I choose," wrote Julie Hirschfeld Davis, a fellow White House
correspondent.

"At least he had the good manners to do it before we got on the train!" wrote
Mark Landler, another member of our White House team.

Eventually, there was a decision. We would all cancel our train tickets and
regroup at the bureau, two blocks from the White House. (That proved to be a
fateful move.) "Dean says meeting definitely canceled," Elisabeth Bumiller, the
Washington bureau chief, emailed.

Elisabeth and I got to the bureau early and turned our attention to a morning
television appearance by one of Mr. Trump's senior advisers suggesting that the
president-elect no longer wanted to pursue charges against Hillary Clinton, a
change from his heated rhetoric during the campaign. Mark and Julie worked from
home, shifting to what passes for a traditional workday in the postelection
period.

And then, at 9:13 a.m., came an email from our publisher's executive assistant:
"Updated Invitation: It's still happening." Arthur Sulzberger Jr., The Times's
publisher, had apparently contacted Mr. Trump's office and convinced him to
reconsider. Mr. Trump later tweeted (at 10:40 a.m.): "The meeting with the
@nytimes is back on."

What followed was a logistical nightmare: How could we get from Washington to
New York in time to meet with Mr. Trump? I logged onto the American Airlines
website to no avail; the site wouldn't book a flight with less than an hour
before departure. Mark had similar trouble. Julie, though, had better luck: She
called our travel service and got a seat on a plane, and was soon in a cab to
Reagan National Airport.

Elisabeth and I jumped into a cab at 9:30 as Nicholas Fandos, the bureau's
intrepid clerk, called the travel service to book us tickets on the 10 a.m.
Acela, which was scheduled to get into New York at 12:48 p.m. A $20 cab ride
later, and with minutes to spare, we boarded the train. Julie made her flight
thanks to a 40-minute delay at the airport. Mark, who lives further out in Chevy
Chase, got stuck in Washington.

Our plans for polishing our interview approach fell by the wayside. Elisabeth
and I prioritized 10 questions and emailed them to Julie and to Maggie Haberman,
our New York-based White House correspondent, who managed to print them out just
before the interview started.

The Acela pulled into Penn Station a few minutes late, arriving at 12:55 p.m. We
bounded up the escalators, across the plaza to Eighth Avenue and 33rd Street and
started jogging. By the time we reached 36th street, a cab pulled up to let
someone off. Elisabeth and I jumped in, hoping that it might be faster. It
wasn't. At 39th Street, as the interview with Mr. Trump started, we handed over
another $20 bill, jumped out and started running again.

At the Times building, the elevators were crowded and slow. After a maddening
ride to the 16th floor (and a quick screening by the Secret Service), Elisabeth
and I entered the boardroom, about eight minutes late.

Meanwhile, Julie was having her own delays. After landing on time at La Guardia
Airport, she hopped into a cab, bound for the office. That worked until traffic
- perhaps made even worse than usual because of Mr. Trump's motorcade - ground
to a halt at 37th Street, along with Julie's cab.

She arrived at the interview a few minutes after Elisabeth and me, but in time
to ask Mr. Trump about Stephen K. Bannon, the president-elect's choice for chief
White House strategist. "I apologize for my delayed flight," she told the
president-elect.

After the lunch, and Mr. Trump's departure, Julie, Elisabeth and I hunkered down
in the boardroom to write. Initially, the spread of food (salmon, beef
tenderloin, frisée salad, barley salad with dried fruit) remained, but it was
quickly cleaned up and taken away.

Shortly after 7:30 p.m., stories mostly finished, the three of us packed up and
headed for the third-floor newsroom to check in. Dean Baquet, the paper's
executive editor, had "a few small thoughts," most of which were fairly
painless. Editors checked quotes in the story against the interview transcript,
which was finally completed.

Elisabeth ran for the 9 p.m. train back to Washington, where she needed to catch
a flight in the morning. Julie and I booked rooms at a nearby hotel and bought
tickets on Wednesday's 9 a.m. train.

Another eventful transition day done.

Follow Times Insider on Twitter.

Related Articles


     ·    Less Defiant Trump at The Times: 'I Hope We Can All Get Along'
     ·    Donald Trump's New York Times Interview: Full Transcript
     ·    Trump's Most Important Quotes From His Times Interview, and Why They
          Matter
     ·    Audio: Inside the Room With President-Elect Donald Trump
     ·    Trump, in Interview, Moderates Views but Defies Conventions
     ·    Donald Trump's New York Times Interview in 12 Tweets


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             700 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Bloomberg Says Cities Will Fight Climate Change, With or Without Trump

BYLINE: EDWARD WONG

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 794 words



HIGHLIGHT: Michael R. Bloomberg, a former New York City mayor, said American
cities would continue to enact climate change policies because "doing so is in
their own self-interest."


Donald J. Trump has said climate change is a hoax created by the Chinese to get
the United States to suppress its manufacturing sector. That prompted a public
rebuttal last week from a Chinese official attending a climate summit meeting in
Marrakesh, Morocco.

On Tuesday, Mr. Trump appeared to back away from the strict climate-denier
viewpoint embraced by many Republicans in an interview with The New York Times,
saying that there was "some connectivity" between human activity and climate
change. He also said he wanted to keep an "open mind" about whether to pull the
United States out of the Paris Agreement, the main global climate change accord.

Mr. Trump's opacity means it is unclear whether he will actually support
policies to limit the effects of climate change after being sworn in as
president in January. But officials from China, which has surpassed the United
States as the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gas, have said they will
move forward on climate policies without the Americans, if it comes to that.

On Tuesday, Michael R. Bloomberg, the media tycoon and former mayor of New York
City, said that American cities would continue to enact climate policies no
matter what Mr. Trump and the federal government decided to do.

Mr. Bloomberg made his remarks in Washington at a talk hosted by the China
General Chamber of Commerce. They were adapted for an op-ed article published
Tuesday by Bloomberg View under the headline, "Washington Won't Have Last Word
on Climate Change."

Mr. Bloomberg, a longtime advocate for action on climate change, praised Xie
Zhenhua, China's climate envoy, for saying China remained committed to tackling
the issue. "That's a responsible thing to do for the Chinese people and the
world," he said.

Mr. Bloomberg added that if Mr. Trump decided to withdraw the United States from
the Paris Agreement, then he would urge the mayors of 128 cities in the United
States who see the need to fight climate change to join the agreement.

Following is a central passage from Mr. Bloomberg's op-ed article:

"I can't tell you what Donald Trump's administration will do - and in all
fairness, they will need time to figure it out themselves. What's said on the
campaign trail is one thing; actually carrying out a specific policy is another.
I hope they'll recognize the importance of the issue. But I am confident that no
matter what happens in Washington, no matter what regulations the next
administration adopts or rescinds, no matter what laws the next Congress may
pass, we will meet the pledges that the U.S. made in Paris.

"The reason is simple: Cities, businesses and citizens will continue reducing
emissions, because they have concluded - just as China has - that doing so is in
their own self-interest.

"The U.S.'s success in fighting climate change has never been primarily
dependent on Washington. Bear in mind: Over the past decade, Congress has not
passed a single bill that takes direct aim at climate change. Yet at the same
time, the U.S. has led the world in reducing emissions.

"That progress has been driven by cities, businesses and citizens - and none of
them are letting up now. Just the opposite: All are looking for ways to expand
their efforts. Mayors and local leaders around the country are determined to
keep pushing ahead on climate change."

Mr. Bloomberg's remarks dovetail with recent ones made by American mayors who
say their cities will defy potential policies from Mr. Trump on critical issues.
Among others, the mayors of New York, Chicago, Seattle, Philadelphia and
Washington have said their cities will be immigrant sanctuaries that do not
cooperate with United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

In his visit with reporters and editors at The New York Times on Tuesday, Mr.
Trump said of the Paris Agreement: "I'm looking at it very closely. I have an
open mind to it." In addressing the climate issue, he also said, "Clean air is
vitally important."

Mr. Trump appeared to be confusing the issues of climate change and air
pollution. Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that accelerate climate
change do not cause smog. It is buildup of particulate matter that leads to
toxic air, a severe problem in Chinese cities. Greenhouses gases and particulate
matter can both come from the same source - in many cases, industrial
coal-burning - so any policies to limit the use of coal helps with both issues.
The United States and China have made pledges to curb the use of coal.

Mr. Bloomberg concluded the op-ed article published Tuesday with this thought:
"Washington will not have the last word on the fate of the Paris Agreement in
the U.S. - mayors will, together with business leaders and citizens."

Get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing
newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             701 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Nikki Haley Chosen as U.N. Ambassador

BYLINE: MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 617 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ms. Haley, the South Carolina governor, was a prominent and frequent
critic of Donald Trump early in his run.


President-elect Donald J. Trump on Wednesday named Gov. Nikki Haley of South
Carolina as his choice to become ambassador to the United Nations, adding to his
prospective cabinet a former critic with whom he had sparred bitterly.

Ms. Haley's name had previously been mentioned as a possible contender to become
Mr. Trump's secretary of state, and she met with Trump transition officials last
week in New York.

Her selection was first reported by the The Post and Courier newspaper in
Charleston, S.C. The news of Ms. Haley's selection came after days of criticism
of Mr. Trump's early picks as a homogeneous bloc of older, white men. If
confirmed, Ms. Haley would step down as governor and be replaced by the state's
lieutenant governor, Henry McMaster, who was an early and vocal supporter of Mr.
Trump.

Ms. Haley, 44, supported Senator Marco Rubio of Florida during the Republican
primaries, and she was a prominent and frequent critic of Mr. Trump early in his
run.

That criticism was thought to have kept her off Mr. Trump's list of
vice-presidential candidates, although her name was mentioned in passing before
he chose Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana.

Ms. Haley called out Mr. Trump in January when she gave the official Republican
rebuttal to President Obama's State of the Union address, and she later took him
to task for his failure to condemn groups like the Ku Klux Klan.

"Some people think that you have to be the loudest voice in the room to make a
difference," Ms. Haley said in the State of the Union rebuttal. "That is just
not true. Often, the best thing we can do is turn down the volume."

In a follow-up interview on the "Today" show on NBC, Ms. Haley - the daughter of
immigrants from India - said, "Mr. Trump has definitely contributed to what I
think is just irresponsible talk."

Mr. Trump responded harshly to that address, calling her "weak" on immigration
and noting that she had asked him for campaign contributions.

"She's very, very weak on illegal immigration," Mr. Trump said. "She's very,
very weak on illegal immigration. You can't have that."

The following month, she condemned Mr. Trump for not speaking out against white
supremacy more forcefully.

Ms. Haley drew on South Carolina's experience last year with the murder of nine
African-Americans in a Charleston church, saying that was exactly the kind of
hate that Mr. Trump refused to repudiate.

"The K.K.K. came to South Carolina from out of state to protest on our
Statehouse grounds," she said at a rally in Georgia. "I will not stop until we
fight a man that chooses not to disavow the K.K.K. That is not a part of our
party. That is not who we are."

Supporters of Mr. Trump were angered that Ms. Haley called him out, and many
took to Twitter and mocked her Indian heritage, making fun of her Indian given
name. Some of that sentiment reappeared on social media once word began
circulating that Ms. Haley was likely to be chosen to be part of the Trump
administration.

Still, in a primary season interview with CNN, Ms. Haley urged Mr. Trump not to
take her comments personally, and said that she considered him a friend.

"I have disagreements with other presidential candidates," Ms. Haley said.
"There's lots of things, but I will say tone matters, message matters and
responsibility matters."

If nominated by Mr. Trump and confirmed by the Senate, Ms. Haley, now in her
second term as South Carolina governor, would succeed Samantha Power, who has
represented the United States at the United Nations since 2013.

Related Articles


     ·    Jeff Sessions, as Attorney General, Could Overhaul Department He's
          Skewered
     ·    Ex-General and Critic of Islam to Help Guide Trump in White House
     ·    Trump's Choice of Stephen Bannon Is Nod to Anti-Washington Base


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             702 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Election Facts to Keep Handy for Holiday Discussions;
The 2016 Race

BYLINE: KEVIN QUEALY

SECTION: UPSHOT

LENGTH: 1121 words



HIGHLIGHT: Turnout, the popular vote, poll misses and third-party candidates:
what you need to know to argue with relatives.


At Thanksgiving, many of us will be subject to - or subjecting our hosts to - a
wide range of opinions about the 2016 election.

But some aspects of it are rooted in fact - not open to interpretation (Sorry,
Uncle Bill). Below, we present a compendium of sorts about the election, to help
guide you in your discussions. Some of these may seem basic, but they are by no
means obvious to everyone. Don't let them get in the way of a good holiday
argument.

Hillary Clinton definitely won the popular vote, and that lead is only going to
grow.

The New York Times called the election for Donald J. Trump at about 2:40 a.m. on
Nov. 9. At that time, he had about 57.2 million votes, almost a million more
than Hillary Clinton. Even before then, the signs pointed to her edge in the
national popular vote.

Most of the votes that remain uncounted are in heavily Democratic places like
California. Even roughly two weeks later, the state estimated that it had about
two million ballots yet to be counted, including about 760,000 in Los Angeles
County, where voters have preferred Mrs. Clinton by around 50 percentage points.

As the votes have trickled in, the popular vote has tilted toward Mrs. Clinton.
As of Wednesday morning, that lead surpassed two million votes, or 1.5
percentage points better than Mr. Trump. (Our time-stamped estimates are
courtesy of Dave Wasserman's excellent popular vote tracker.) This lead is still
growing, but it's already a larger margin than in popular vote victories by Al
Gore in 2000, Richard Nixon in 1968 and John F. Kennedy in 1960.

Turnout in the 2016 election was not low. It is about the same as it was in 2012
and comparable to most 20th-century presidential elections.

Turnout is simple to calculate: Take the total number of votes cast and divide
it by the total number of adults who are eligible to vote, and presto, you have
a turnout rate!

When the race was called, this math problem yielded a ratethat was, indeed,
historically low. It was also wrong, for the same reason Mrs. Clinton trailed in
the popular vote at that time: Not all the ballots had been counted.

Because the denominator in this math problem - the number of voting-eligible
adults on Election Day - does not change, the turnout rate goes up every time
ballots are counted. As they have come in, the turnout rate has risen to about
57.7 percent. Michael McDonald at the United States Elections Project estimates
that it will ultimately be closer to 58.4 percent, a bit lower than it was in
2012 and roughly comparable to most presidential elections in the last 100
years.

Yes, the polls were off, but not in extraordinary ways.

Mrs. Clinton held a modest but steady lead in nearly every national poll for
months, and led most state polls in Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania,
Michigan and Wisconsin. Yet she lost in each of these states.

So how wrong were the polls? On average, by about 3.4 percentage points in the
closest states. That's higher than in any election in decades, but comparable to
polling misses in 1988 and 1992.

The 2016 polling miss feels much larger because the places where Mrs. Clinton
fared worse than polls suggested were concentrated in a few battleground states.
The places where she fared better than expected were in big liberal states,
where she had almost no chance of losing. Nationally, these effects nearly
canceled out, which is why her national polling lead before the election - three
to four points - ended up being close to the result (which, again, is about a
1.5-point lead and is expected to grow as more votes come in).

Third-party candidates, like Gary Johnson and Jill Stein, may have cost Mrs.
Clinton Michigan, but they almost certainly did not cost her the presidency.

The total vote tally says about 4 percent of all voters, about 5.8 million
people, voted for Mr. Johnson (3.3 percent) or Ms. Stein (1 percent). In four
battleground states that Mrs. Clinton lost - Florida, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin
and Michigan - the votes for these third-party candidates exceeded Mr. Trump's
margin of victory. If those states had flipped, Mrs. Clinton would be president.
Are third-party voters responsible for the Trump presidency?

Almost certainly not.

With the exception of Michigan, third-party voters would have had to
overwhelmingly favor Mrs. Clinton to flip the state. That notion also rests on a
significant number of third-party voters coming to the polls, but many of them
told pollsters that they would have stayed home if they could not have voted for
their third-party candidate.

If we look at Mr. Trump's margin of victory in these four states and the number
of votes cast for Mr. Johnson or Ms. Stein, we're left with a simple math
problem: If those candidates did not exist, what share of those votes would Mrs.
Clinton have needed to pick up to overtake Mr. Trump's vote lead? The answer: a
substantial share.

Might these voters really have preferred Mrs. Clinton to Mr. Trump to this
degree and showed up to the polls at higher rates than they told pollsters they
would? It's possible. But for that vote to be decisive, Pennsylvania or Florida
and at least one other state would have had to flip. The evidence we have
suggests such an outcome would have been highly unlikely; if anything, the
Johnson vote could have easily leaned toward Mr. Trump.

Exit polls are useful, but don't give them too much credence.

As my colleague Nate Cohn has written, exit polls are helpful, but using them to
come to conclusions about the precise composition of the electorate is risky -
and frequently wrong. In 2012, they painted a picture of the electorate that was
younger and more diverse than it really was.

Many important questions remain about precisely who voted, and why. Did poor
Democratic turnout doom Mrs. Clinton, or were swing voters the key to Mr.
Trump's win? Did Mr. Trump really do better among Hispanic voters than Mitt
Romney? Further analysis of the voter files - which show who voted and who
didn't - will provide more clarity in the months ahead. Exit polls alone are not
a definitive way to answer these questions.

But a few things, as we've tried to explain, should be beyond debate, as should
the idea that Thanksgiving dinner ought to include at least some time not
devoted to politics.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.

CHART: A Large and Growing Popular Vote Lead: As more ballots have been counted,
Hillary Clinton has built a large popular vote lead. (Source: Dave Wasserman,
Cook Political Report)

Related Articles


     ·    There Are More White Voters Than People Think. That's Good News for
          Trump.
     ·    How to Argue Fairly and Without Rancor (Hello, Thanksgiving!)


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             703 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

'Economic Tsunami': Fearing Donald Trump, Immigrants in New York Spend Less

BYLINE: LIZ ROBBINS

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1547 words



HIGHLIGHT: The city is already starting to feel the effect of Mr. Trump's
election. Immigrants in Latino neighborhoods who face an uncertain future say
they have curbed their shopping.


In Jackson Heights, Queens, days after the presidential election, an
Indian-American jeweler was left holding an order of two custom men's gold rings
worth $3,000. The customer told him he could not pay; he had to go back to his
home country before he could be deported.

At the furniture store Casa Dominicana on St. Nicholas Avenue in Upper
Manhattan, the white leather sofas and bedroom sets have not been selling, the
manager, Wendy Calderon, said. "Most people are afraid to go out and shop," she
said. "They are saving their money if anything crazy happens."

And at the office of Dr. Ismael Bastida, a Mexican-born, New York
University-trained dentist in Elmhurst, Queens, patients are forgoing
teeth-whitening packages and long-term treatment plans. As a result, he ordered
fewer syringes and fillings last week from Benco Dental, a family-owned company
based in Luzerne County, Pa., where 58 percent voted for the Republican, Donald.
J. Trump.

New York City, where a weighty portion of the economy is driven by immigrants,
is already starting to feel the effect of Mr. Trump's election, as residents in
Latino neighborhoods facing an uncertain future have cut back their spending.
Forty-seven percent of the city's work force is made up of immigrants, according
to the Center for an Urban Future, a nonpartisan group that studies city
finance.

Those most worried are undocumented immigrants, whom Mr. Trump during the
campaign vowed to deport. Some 574,000 city residents are undocumented, and they
pay $793 million a year in state and local taxes, according to a study
commissioned by the City Council speaker, Melissa Mark-Viverito, a Democrat.

About 10 percent of the city's workers are unauthorized, according to United
States census figures, although an accurate count is hard to determine.

It is likewise impossible to separate the underground economy from New York's
larger economy, because the city is home to immigrants of every kind of legal
status, like day laborers, taxi drivers, kitchen workers in restaurants owned by
undocumented immigrants who pay taxes, and college-educated entrepreneurs who
have temporary protection from deportation.

If they were to leave the city, either by returning on their own to their home
countries or by government order, "it could be a massive ripple effect,"
Jonathan Bowles, executive director of the Center for an Urban Future, said.

"You take away upwards of a half-million undocumented immigrants," Mr. Bowles
added, "and these are folks that pay taxes, that spend money in their
communities, that may be employing other New Yorkers. And we could see others
take flight."

Dr. Bastida had a dire prediction: "It will be an economic tsunami."

Elizabeth Vilchis, a technology entrepreneur who came to New York as a child
from Mexico, said, "Because we're always in the backdrop, people don't realize
the impact we have."

She is able to work legally under a program known as Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals, created by President Obama by executive action. Mr. Trump
has promised to eliminate it, potentially affecting some 30,000 young people in
New York City and 750,000 across the nation.

Mr. Trump's first priority, he has said, would be to deport criminals - he
estimated there were more than two million - living in the United States
illegally. He has not said yet how he would force the 11.2 million immigrants
without criminal records or papers to leave the country.

StateSenator Jose Peralta, whose Queens district includes Jackson Heights,
Elmhurst and Corona - the center of New York City's business growth in the last
decade - said that uncertainty had led to fear-driven decisions, whether it was
to return home or to cut back on luxuries.

His constituents, he said, were saying: "Why not just slow down the
expenditures? Because I don't know if I'm going to need this money to defend
myself.'"

That mentality is not prevalent only among low-wage workers. Cris Mercado, the
founder of two start-up ventures, is doing the same. Mr. Mercado came to the
United States as a child from the Philippines.

After losing a scholarship package to New York University because he was
undocumented, he graduated from City College of New York and later started Grant
Answers, a company that helps first-generation Americans secure college
scholarships. Now he is developing KeyJargon, an app that connects job seekers
with professional associations.

But his financial clock is ticking, he said. "I have about two months to really
ramp up the next iteration of my app and also to secure the many independent
contracting opportunities," Mr. Mercado said. "I'm really trying to hoard
resources and cash, because I don't know what's next."

Ernesto Cury, a Dominican-born accountant in Jackson Heights, said that since
the election, several clients had inquired about the tax implications of taking
out their profits from restaurants, cleaning services and construction
companies. Even if they are not legal permanent residents, Mr. Cury explained,
immigrants can be self-employed, form a corporation and then pay taxes using an
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, because they do not qualify for
Social Security.

In Queens, the self-employment rate of foreign-born people is 12 percent,
according to the Center for an Urban Future, compared with 6.4 percent of those
who are native-born.

Juan Ospina, a naturalized citizen from Colombia, runs two businesses: Mama
Empanada y Algo Mas on 82nd Street in Jackson Heights, and a contracting company
that recently finished building a nearby hair salon. He says he relies on day
laborers who are undocumented, and cannot imagine what would happen if they were
not available.

"I don't believe that Trump will kick out the engine," Mr. Ospina said.

But many undocumented immigrants are now wondering whether he will. In Bushwick,
Brooklyn, curve-enhancing Colombian jeans are staying on the rack at a
neighborhood store. Customers from Ecuador have told the Mexican-born owner,
Maria de los Santos, that they might need any extra money in the coming year to
move their families.

At Patricia Salazar's clothing and catchall store on Roosevelt Avenue off 82nd
Street in Jackson Heights, two customers told her last week that they were
leaving the country. And her longtime hairdresser, who worked at a salon up the
block, said she was going back to Colombia the next day.

Ms. Salazar, who immigrated from Bolivia 30 years ago, said she had been a
supporter of Mr. Trump because she thought he would be good for business. But
now, even though her children and grandchildren are United States citizens, she
is thinking of returning home.

"I don't want to live with this thing in my heart, because I am scared," she
said.

Around the corner from her store, Dr. Bastida and his daughter, Araceli
Thornton, who manages his practice, were wondering whether they might have to
combine practices with one of the other dental offices that line 82nd Street,
all of them catering to the neighborhood's immigrant population.

They see how the businesses in the area are interwoven. "It is a circle," Dr.
Bastida said. "One that buys here later eats food from there."

Perhaps the most ubiquitous symbol of New York's immigrant-driven economy is the
bicycle-riding food deliverer.

Soon after Ms. Vilchis, the entrepreneur, graduated from City College of New
York with a degree in mechanical engineering, she helped create a start-up
technology company to optimize food delivery in the Manhattan neighborhoods of
Hell's Kitchen and Chelsea.

She employed undocumented immigrants to deliver food at $15 an hour - a job that
usually pays $7.50, she said. The most frequent orders came from finance
professionals who had no time to leave their desks, which led Ms. Vilchis to
another conclusion: Time is another currency propelling the city's economy, with
lower-paid, often-undocumented workers performing tasks that higher-paid
professionals are willing to outsource, including the delivery of pad Thai to
their desks.

"A lot of people who are successful in the city, it is because there are
immigrants to fill the roles that let them use their time to advance their
careers," Ms. Vilchis said. "If we take that away, the whole thing crashes."

Teodelina Basavilbaso contributed reporting.

PHOTOS: The corner of Roosevelt Avenue and 82nd Street in Jackson Heights,
Queens. Some business owners in the neighborhood said business had ebbed since
Donald J. Trump's election.; Glen Mirchandani, a jeweler in Jackson Heights,
said a customer had recently backed out of a $3,000 deal for two custom gold
rings because, fearing deportation, he was leaving the country. (A27); PATRICIA
SALAZAR: Queens store owner who supported Donald J. Trump but is now thinking of
returning to Bolivia.; DR. ISMAEL BASTIDA: A dentist in Elmhurst, Queens, on how
businesses in the area are interwoven. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A27); CRIS MERCADO: Founder of two start-up ventures, pictured with
Elizabeth Vilchis, a technology entrepreneur. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YEONG-UNG YANG FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A28)

Related Articles


     ·    What Donald Trump's Vow to Deport Up to 3 Million Immigrants Would
          Mean
     ·    On Staten Island, Immigrants 'Hope for the Best but Prepare for the
          Worst'
     ·    At a School of Immigrants, Challenges Reach Far Beyond the Classroom


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             704 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

California Today: Some Opt to Pass on Thanksgiving Politics;
California Today

BYLINE: MIKE McPHATE

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1119 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wednesday: Worries over Thanksgiving after the election, a crisis of
malnutrition among Salinas Valley farmworkers, and a last-minute holiday recipe
from Bar Tartine.


Good morning.

Please note: California Today is taking a break on Thursday and Friday for the
holiday. We'll be back on Monday.

(Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.)

For Thanksgiving this year, many Americans are anticipating turkey, mashed
potatoes, pumpkin pie - and postelection combat with relatives.

Every election provokes some level of stress among voters, but mental health
professionals say that the polarization of this year's presidential race
appeared to have amplified the tension.

"It was a very significant stressor for people this year," said Dr. Vaile
Wright, director of research and special projects at the American Psychological
Association.

On Tuesday, we asked readers to tell us whether they expected their Thanksgiving
gatherings to provide a stage for potential blowups as seldom-seen relatives
congregate for the first time since Election Day.

Several people wrote to say they planned to adhere to a no-political-talk rule.
Others said they were taking a more extreme approach - avoiding Thanksgiving
get-togethers altogether.

For those disappointed by the presidential outcome, much of the anxiety stemmed
from concerns that relatives who supported Donald J. Trump might gloat about his
victory.

Vince Garcia, 48, said he heard rumblings that two relatives were planning to
wear Trump gear at their Thanksgiving gathering. "Quite honestly I'm not looking
forward to it at all," he wrote in an email.

Martin Johnson, a retired engineer in San Clemente, said he and his wife worried
that sparks could fly during their gathering of 18 family members. About half
are loyal Democrats, he said, and half dedicated Trump supporters.

If things get out of hand, Mr. Johnson, 66, said he planned to tell his guests:
"Just put all that stuff in a shoe box and put it on a shelf. Let's just not get
into that topic."

Dr. Wright said avoiding politics was sometimes the right approach.

If the election outcome is weighing heavily on your mind, Thanksgiving can be a
time to talk about it, she said. But if reconnecting with family is what's most
important, it could be wise to just postpone the political talk for another
time.

Kathy Winter, 61, a reader in San Diego, wrote in with a reminder that
Thanksgiving is intended to be a moment to count blessings and connect with
family.

But, she added, "If we are all mature adults, we should be able to talk
politics."

California Online

The Salinas Valley, known as the salad bowl of the nation, is struggling with a
crisis of poverty and malnutrition among its farmworkers. [The New York Times]

California's largest state workers union said it would strike in December over a
contract dispute. [Sacramento Bee]

Michelle Rhee, Sacramento's first lady and the former head of the Washington,
D.C., schools, appeared to take herself out of the running to become education
secretary in the Trump administration. [Sacramento Bee]

Two weeks after Election Day, Proposition 66 was finally called. The measure,
intended to speed up death row appeals, passed. [Los Angeles Times]

Also called was Proposition 53, which would have given voters more say over
megaprojects. It failed. [The Associated Press]

Disney has big plans for its Hong Kong resort: a $1.4 billion upgrade. [The New
York Times]

Facebook is said to have created a censorship tool in an effort to get back into
China. [The New York Times]

A memorial service for a slain sheriff's deputy in Stanislaus County was filled
with laughter and tears. [Modesto Bee]

Defying expectations, the Oakland Raiders are now 8-2 after beating the Texans
in Mexico City. [The New York Times]

Most people know Jack London as a prolific writer. Few know him as a
photographer. [The New York Times]

Our nation is diverse. How does that play out in what we eat at Thanksgiving?
[The New York Times]

And Finally ...

Still in need of a quick Thanksgiving recipe?

We asked Cortney Burns, a chef at Bar Tartine in San Francisco, to suggest a
dish that takes advantage of the fall season.

She offered this one from a book she wrote with Nicolaus Balla, "Bar Tartine:
Techniques & Recipes," winner of a 2015 James Beard award:

Potato and Green Bean Soup

This is a soup to make in late summer, or autumn when the days get shorter and
the green beans grow big and tough. It is ideal for those end-of-season beans,
which are much better cooked well past the bright green and crisp stage that
culinary professionals prize. In this soup, the beans are cooked
grandmother-style, until they are quite tender and develop a deep, earthy
flavor.

The butter that floats on the surface of this soup is essential to the soup's
texture and flavor. We recommend you use cultured butter, which has a subtle
tang. You can make it yourself or buy it.

Serves 4 to 6

1 tbsp. filtered grapeseed oil or good cooking oil

1 sweet white onion, cut into 1/4-in/6-mm dice

4 garlic cloves, minced

3 cups/720 ML vegetable or poultry broth

12 oz/335 g russet potatoes, peeled and cut into 1/4-in/6-mm dice

1 lb/455 g green beans, trimmed and cut into 3/4-in/2-cm pieces

3 cups/720 ML buttermilk

1 tbsp. plus 2 tsp. kosher salt

Freshly ground black pepper

1 cup/240 ML sour cream

3 tbsp. apple cider vinegar

2 tbsp. butter, melted

Chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley for garnish

Chopped fresh dill for garnish

Chopped fresh chives for garnish

Heat a medium saucepan over medium heat until a drop of water flicked on the
surface sizzles gently on contact. Add the grapeseed oil, then immediately add
the onion and garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, until the vegetables are
slightly softened but not browned, about 10 minutes. Add the broth, potatoes and
green beans and simmer until the potatoes are tender enough to be easily pierced
with a skewer, about 25 minutes. Remove from the heat.

In a blender, combine 2 cups/475 ML of the broth and vegetables and the
buttermilk and purée until smooth. Add the purée back to the saucepan, add the
salt and 1/2 tsp. pepper, and place over medium heat. Bring to a simmer and cook
gently until heated through, about five minutes. Remove from the heat and stir
in 3/4 cup/180 ML of the sour cream and the vinegar.

Ladle the soup into individual bowls and garnish with melted butter, the
remaining 1/4 cup/60 ML sour cream, the parsley, dill, chives, and plenty of
pepper. Leftover soup will keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator for
up to four days.

California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you
want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.

The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a third-generation Californian
- born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis.
Follow him on Twitter.

California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and
attended U.C. Berkeley.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             705 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

How Fifth Avenue Is Coping

BYLINE: MATTHEW SCHNEIER

SECTION: FASHION

LENGTH: 1521 words



HIGHLIGHT: Along Fifth Avenue, the luxury stores adjacent to Trump Tower adjust
to the none-too-jolly presence of police barricades and bomb-sniffing dogs.


It is the beginning of the holiday shopping season on Fifth Avenue, even if the
festive spirit is dampened a bit by the long guns of stationed police officers
and the regular presence of bomb-sniffing dogs.

Some of the city's most storied stores have found themselves blocked behind
police barricades. In the days since the presidential election, protesters have
come through angrily, shutting down Fifth Avenue, filling the streets from Trump
Tower at East 56th Street down to the Valentino store between 54th and 55th
Streets and beyond.

Even when the protesters take their placards elsewhere, camera-wielding gawkers
loiter on the sidewalk, gazing up at the tower where Donald J. Trump, the
president-elect, is taking meetings.

Pedestrian access is largely restricted on the east side of Fifth Avenue between
56th and 57th Streets, where Mr. Trump both lives and works. So outside
Tiffany's, Trump Tower's neighbor to the north, and Gucci, whose Fifth Avenue
flagship is within the tower (though with its own entrance), scarf-wearing
employees have been dispatched to the sidewalk, doing their best to usher
shoppers, following police bag checks, past the barricades.

In the final months of the Obama presidency, as the president-elect plans his
transition, Trump Tower has become the seat of power. For neighboring retailers,
the congestion, the blockages, the protests and the occasional street closures
have already affected foot traffic and are a cause for concern: The holiday
season accounts for an outsize stake of retail business.

"You always hear the number 40 percent for Christmas," said Dan Biederman, the
president of the 34th Street Partnership, a neighboring Business Improvement
District.

On a recent weekday, Maria Mammis, a regular visitor and Fifth Avenue shopper
from Montreal, was walking by the barricades as quickly as she could in
teetering stilettos. "I'll avoid all these shops," she said. "We're avoiding
this whole area. It's terrible."

Few retailers care to admit they are worried. Major brands, including Louis
Vuitton, Armani and Polo Ralph Lauren, all of which have stores nearby, declined
to comment; inside stores, clerks and security guards said they were
specifically instructed not to talk about anything "political."

For those who would, a spirit of make-do reigns.

"We've been through a lot of different things," said Jeff Bennett, a market vice
president of Tiffany who oversees the Fifth Avenue flagship. "We've been a
resilient New Yorker for nearly 180 years."

The company has been in frequent communication with the New York Police
Department and the Secret Service regarding safety and security, and decided to
cancel two events in the immediate aftermath of the election: one celebrating
its capsule collection with Eddie Borgo on Nov. 10 (it was rescheduled for early
December) and one to unveil the holiday windows on Nov. 14.

Nevertheless, the holiday windows are up and customers are finding their way
around the obstructions, Mr. Bennett said. (Helping Tiffany is the fact that the
store also has an entrance on East 57th Street.) Tiffany declined to discuss
specifics of foot traffic or sales numbers.

"For international tourists, it's creating a little bit of excitement," Mr.
Bennett said. "Occasionally, when it's appropriate, the police and our Tiffany
ambassadors are taking pictures. The combination of our ambassadors and the
N.Y.P.D. out there, it's creating a nice environment."

For one couple, who wanted to get engaged at Tiffany, the aid of "a very
understanding member of New York's Finest" became "a memorable part of their
proposal and their lives together," Mr. Bennett said.

A representative for Gucci declined to comment on how the agitation and
blockages had affected the store.

The response from the city was not initially sympathetic. "I will not tell you
that Gucci and Tiffany are my central concerns in life," Mayor Bill de Blasio
said at a news conference held outside of Trump Tower, following a meeting with
the president-elect on Nov. 16.

But at a subsequent news conference on Nov. 18, the mayor and the police
commissioner, James P. O'Neill, announced their intention to keep Fifth Avenue
open, following three temporary closures in the immediate aftermath of the
election and the protests that followed.

"We are devoted to making sure the city will keep moving," Mr. de Blasio said.
"This is a big challenge and an unprecedented challenge, we know that. We're
committed to making it work."

He said that he was "very concerned to make sure that businesses continue to
thrive, continue to be able to serve their customers and do well," but also
asked that New Yorkers avoid the area between 53rd and 57th Streets, between
Madison Avenue and Avenue of the Americas, "to the maximum extent possible," a
request not likely to please those retailers in this high-priced luxury
corridor, where rents can run a reported $5,000 per square foot.

(The commotion has already raised the hackles of the Momofuku restaurateur David
Chang, who has tweeted his displeasure at traffic disruptions on 56th Street,
where his Má Pêche restaurant is.)

On Fifth Avenue between 56th and 57th alone, there are stores for Abercrombie &
Fitch and Prada, as well as the multiunit Crown Building at 730 Fifth Avenue,
home to Mikimoto, Piaget and Bulgari. Ermenegildo Zegna plans to open a store
there. Jason Maurer, the leasing agent for the property, declined to discuss the
building.

"We are hopeful that a solution can be found to address the security concerns
while allowing for New York residents and visitors to continue enjoying Fifth
Avenue, the country's pre-eminent shopping district," Joshua Schulman, the
president of Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus International, wrote in a
statement. "We were pleased to unveil our holiday windows on Tuesday, November
15 without any issues, and we have not modified our hours of operation or our
entrances."

But those in the epicenter of the ongoing commotion are likely in for continued
disruption, especially given the announcement that Melania Trump and the
couple's son, Barron, are to stay in New York until the end of the school year.
The president-elect plans to move to the White House, said Hope Hicks, a
spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, though speculation endures that he will continue to
spend time in New York.

"It's going to be terrible for those poor retailers that are between 55th and
57th," said Joseph Sitt, the chief executive of Thor Equities, a landlord,
developer and leasing agent with commercial properties up and down Fifth.
"Everyone between 55th and 57th has a nightmare on their hands."

Representatives of the Fifth Avenue Business Improvement District, which
includes the area, did not respond to requests for comment.

At Henri Bendel, on Fifth Avenue between 55th and 56th, anti-Trump protests had
forced the store to close a few times and to reschedule a holiday shopping
event.

"We obviously have been affected by that," said Pina Ferlisi, Bendel's creative
director. "We had to close three times, as a lot of other businesses in the area
had to."

The store's holiday display, a "Love Wall" of painted hearts by the artist James
Goldcrown, ended up being "kind of timely," Ms. Ferlisi said. Mr. Goldcrown was
at Henri Bendel installing the wall the night after the election, as protests
raged outside.

"I don't think any of us really knew what we were in for," he said. "It was just
bonkers. It was very exciting, actually."

Asked whether business has since returned to normal, Ms. Ferlisi said that
Bendel is busy. "Our focus is on giving our customers the best holiday shopping
experience on Fifth Avenue," she said. "It's the new normal."

Shoppers are adjusting as well.

"I was determined to buy sunglasses," said Marina Rabinovich, a Brooklynite who
had a stroller with her infant - and bags from Christian Louboutin and Tiffany -
in tow. "The barricades don't bother me. For New Yorkers, it's not a problem."

Indeed, said Mr. Sitt, Trump Tower could serve as a boon to retailers a few
blocks south, functioning as a new tourist attraction and "anchor" for Fifth
Avenue. South of "bedlam," as he called the area between 55th and 57th on Fifth,
"they're doing business like they haven't done it in a while."

"Their business are booming, booming, booming," Mr. Sitt said. "Somebody joked
with me that they're even getting tons of business from the protesters. It's
come, protest, shop."

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.

Valeriya Safronova contributed reporting.

PHOTOS: Protesters outside the Valentino store on Fifth Avenue near Trump Tower.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ILAN ZECHORY) (D1); Above, shoppers make their way around police
barricades on Fifth Avenue. Top, armed officers at Trump Tower, next to an ad
for the children's line of Gucci, which has a store in the building.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4)

Related Articles


     ·    Fashion Begins to Speak Out About Dressing and Covering the Trumps
     ·    Ivanka Trump Blurs the Line Between Professional and Political
     ·    Is Fashion's Love Affair With Washington Over?


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             706 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Why This Election Was Not About the Issues;
The 2016 Race

BYLINE: LYNN VAVRECK

SECTION: UPSHOT

LENGTH: 1043 words



HIGHLIGHT: Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton focused on attacks on character, and
the data on their campaign ads shows it.


If you think back to this year's presidential campaign and recall a lot of
articles mentioning Hillary Clinton's email troubles and Donald J. Trump's
various controversies, you wouldn't be wrong. If it seems there were fewer
articles about jobs, the economy and taxes, that's because there were. The
temptation to blame news organizations for this imbalance is strong, but there
is at least some reason to resist it. Criticshavelong assailed campaign coverage
as focused too much on candidate personality, campaign strategy and assessments
of who's winning, instead of on policies and ideas. But this year, the
candidates share the blame.

I compared the content of campaign ads with the content of news articles about
two specific topics: candidate traits or characteristics, and the economy or
jobs. Both the candidates and news organizations spent more time discussing the
candidates' fitness for office (or lack of it) than they did the nation's
economy. And the imbalance grew more lopsided as the election approached.

Using analytic tools provided by Crimson Hexagon, I categorized the campaign
news coverage of 23 media outlets. This consisted of four broadcast networks;
three cable news networks; National Public Radio and Hugh Hewitt on the radio;
two online news sites; and 12 newspapers.

I specifically searched for news about Mrs. Clinton's campaign and her email
server or her campaign and WikiLeaks, and several controversies connected to Mr.
Trump's campaign (including things like Trump University, the Khan family and
the "Access Hollywood" video).

I also looked for news about the candidates' campaign appeals on the economy and
jobs. This list isn't exhaustive, but it gives a sense of the trade-off between
coverage of these controversies and the economy.

The candidates' controversies received more coverage, on average, than their
views on the economy. From June until Election Day, 38 percent of the stories
mentioned Mr. Trump's various missteps, and 35 percent mentioned Mrs. Clinton's
email.

Only 17 percent mentioned Mr. Trump and jobs or the economy, and only 10 percent
cited Mrs. Clinton's campaign and the economy.

Closer to the election, from Oct. 8 on, the numbers got even more lopsided. This
was an important date - just after the release of the "Access Hollywood" video
and a few weeks before F.B.I. Director James B. Comey's letter to Congress. From
this point, 53 percent of the campaign articles mentioning either controversies
or the economy discuss Mrs. Clinton's email, while only 6 percent mention her
alongside jobs or the economy. As for Mr. Trump, 31 percent mention his
entanglements, while 10 percent mention him related to jobs and the economy.

The imbalance in coverage of the candidates' character is striking, as is the
lack of coverage about the economy compared with the controversies. Moving one
week past the video release, between Oct. 15 and Election Day, roughly half (56
percent) of the stories about scandals and the economy mentioned Mrs. Clinton's
emails, and only a quarter (26 percent) discussed Mr. Trump and his imbroglios.
A mere 7 percent of the stories in these last three weeks mentioned Mrs. Clinton
and the economy (11 percent mentioned Mr. Trump and the economy).

These choices have consequences. According to the Gallup Organization,
Americans' reports of what they heard or read about Mrs. Clinton between June
and September were mainly references to her handling of emails during her time
as secretary of state. In contrast, mentions of Mr. Trump changed week by week,
tracking what was happening on the campaign trail.

But before anyone blames the news media, it's important to examine what the
candidates themselves were talking about over the course of the campaign. If
media reports reflect candidate discourse accurately, then it is not merely the
media choosing to report on scandals. It might be at least as much the
candidates' choosing to campaign on them that results in unending coverage of
traits and characteristics.

To figure out if this was the case, I used data from Kantar Media/CMAG on all
the candidates' campaign ads aired between June and Election Day. I coded all of
the appeals in each ad and weighted the appeals by how many times the ads ran on
television. Mrs. Clinton made more ads than Mr. Trump, and she vastly
out-advertised him, running nearly three times as many ads as he did. All told,
over half a million ads were run in 2016 during this period.

The content of the ads is revealing. Both candidates spent most of their
television advertising time attacking the other person's character. In fact, the
losing candidate's ads did little else. More than three-quarters of the appeals
in Mrs. Clinton's advertisements (and nearly half of Mr. Trump's) were about
traits, characteristics or dispositions. Only 9 percent of Mrs. Clinton's
appeals in her ads were about jobs or the economy. By contrast, 34 percent of
Mr. Trump's appeals focused on the economy, jobs, taxes and trade.

Since the start of presidential campaign television advertising in 1952, no
campaign has made 76 percent of its television ad appeals about any single
topic. On average, traits typically garner about 22 percent of the appeals. The
economy typically generates about 28 percent of the appeals. There's usually
much more balance.

Of course, this was an unusual election year, with two very unpopular
candidates, so the candidates' flaws may have simply been too big a story for
either them or the media to pass up. Whatever the reason, the criterion of
fitness for office dominated the Clinton campaign's messaging and made up a good
share of the Trump messaging as well, and the news media covered it.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.

Lynn Vavreck is a professor of political science at the University of
California, Los Angeles, and a co-author of "The Gamble," about the 2012
presidential campaign.

Related Articles


     ·    Do Campaign Ads Matter? Donald Trump Offers a Rare Chance to Find Out
     ·    As American as Apple Pie? The Rural Vote's Disproportionate Slice of
          Power
     ·    Ads That Use Candidates' Own Words, to Powerful Effect
     ·    The States That College Graduates Are Most Likely to Leave


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             707 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 23, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump's Early Backers in State Government May See Rewards

BYLINE: MONICA DAVEY

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1085 words



HIGHLIGHT: In every presidential race, there are early and fierce endorsers of
the winning candidate who are then viewed, postelection, as having more
influence.


In Maine, where Gov. Paul R. LePage backed Donald J. Trump's campaign for the
presidency, some political observers are wondering if the state will soon see
results from that. Might Mr. Trump lend his support, for instance, to reversing
a recent federal parkland designation that Mr. LePage strongly opposed?

In North Dakota, whose only member of the House of Representatives, Kevin
Cramer, was an early supporter of Mr. Trump and advised him on energy policy,
some suggest that Mr. Trump's administration will allow the completion of the
fiercely protested Dakota Access oil pipeline, as Mr. Cramer has urged.

And in Iowa, where Gov. Terry E. Branstad pushedstrongly for Mr. Trump, some
believe that the new president will help the state hold on to its coveted status
as the first in the nation to hold presidential caucuses.

In every race for the White House, there are early and fierce endorsers of the
winning candidate who are then viewed, postelection, as having greater
influence. Some are courted for cabinet spots, but more seek the president's ear
on state policies, federal funds and infrastructure projects. Rarely, though,
are the lines as stark as in this election, largely because some Republican
leaders took the unusual step of not endorsing Mr. Trump - early or ever. And
what this means now for the ones who did is far from clear.

"It'll be great to have a governor and a president who work well together, and I
think it'll benefit Florida greatly," Brian Ballard, a Florida lobbyist, said of
Gov. Rick Scott, another steadfast supporter of Mr. Trump, who posted photos on
Twitter from a meeting he had with Mr. Trump on Thursday.

Great seeing my friend @realDonaldTrump today. pic.twitter.com/yJAMbHsXp5 - Rick
Scott (@FLGovScott) November 17, 2016

Could more federal help come when the next hurricane rolls into Florida? Might
there be a way for the state to get a leg up in its longstanding water war with
neighboring states?

"He's a person Mr. Trump has known a long time," Mr. Ballard said of the
governor. "They work well together, and I think his counsel will be well
received."

The flip side, too, is being imagined. Will states with Republican governors who
said they did not support Mr. Trump (like Massachusetts, Nevada and New Mexico)
or who chose not to endorse him (like Michigan) be penalized?

After Gov. John Kasich of Ohio said he could not support Mr. Trump, Ohio "may
not be at the top of the pecking order when it comes to discretionary dollars,"
acknowledged Michael Gonidakis, a Republican political consultant who leads the
state's Right to Life organization.

"He's going to reward those states where the leaders and establishment were out
there supporting him," Mr. Gonidakis said. "But Ohio won't be last in line
either. I think Donald Trump is a bigger person than that."

Mr. Kasich declined an interview request through his spokesman.

Not everyone believes that Mr. Trump's pre-election relations with local
officials will matter all that much - or any more than they have in other
administrations. John Hibbing, a political scientist at the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln, said he was skeptical about how much political leverage the
federal government would exert over states and cities.

Other political analysts noted that the new administration's decisions on issues
that affect states, like energy, environmental regulation and health care, might
simply align philosophically with the wishes of Republican governors, regardless
of whether they backed Mr. Trump in the election.

Still, many analysts said, lots of people will be making requests in the coming
days, and those who backed him when others did not may have a simpler path.

"This governor has a number of times proposed welfare reforms, aimed at fighting
fraud, that were viewed negatively by the federal government," Mark Brewer, a
political scientist at the University of Maine, said of Mr. LePage. "I'd put my
money on him going back to ask on this, if he hasn't already. Given the variety
of options, you have to wonder what a LePage administration can do now that it
couldn't have requested under President Obama."

The governor's office did not respond to a phone inquiry.

Among Republicans at the local level, the issue seemed somewhat more removed.

After a recording emerged in October of Mr. Trump talking about sexually
assaulting women, Jean Stothert, the mayor of Omaha, issued a statement
condemning the comments as "repulsive." And after Election Day, Ms. Stothert
told reporters that she had chosen Senator John McCain of Arizona as a write-in
candidate.

Was Ms. Stothert concerned about fallout for Omaha with the White House now?

"I certainly hope nothing like that would pan out," she said in an interview. "I
would hope no city would be retaliated on because of what position the mayor
took."

She added that she supported Mr. Trump now that he had been elected. "You do
have to respect the office of the president," she said. "You hope and pray they
do well."

In Tulsa, Okla., after delivering his final State of the City address last week,
Mayor Dewey F. Bartlett Jr., who leaves office in early December, gave the crowd
at a regional chamber of commerce meeting some unexpected news. Asked what he
would do next, Mr. Bartlett said he was trying to get in touch with Mr. Trump's
transition team to ask to be considered for secretary of transportation.

"I feel that it's very reasonable that that would be considered because of the
experience I've had in transportation," Mr. Bartlett said in an interview,
noting his past work for the state's turnpike authority and as a pilot.

Mr. Bartlett was an outspoken supporter of Mr. Trump for months. It was a
position he took criticism for as he sought re-election in June, and he said he
thought it might have contributed to his loss. For the moment, he said last
week, he was still trying to figure out how best to get in touch with the Trump
team.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTOS: Gov. Paul R. LePage of Maine backed Donald J. Trump early. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MICHAEL DWYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS); Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa was a staunch
supporter of Mr. Trump's campaign, and some hope the state will see a payoff.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE NEIBERGALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Turns Staid Process Into Spectacle as Aspirants Parade to His
          Door
     ·    Trump Meets With Romney as He Starts to Look Outside His Inner Circle
     ·    Donald Trump, After Fits and Starts, Focuses on Foreign Policy


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             708 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 24, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Republicans Divided Between Romney and Giuliani for Secretary of State

BYLINE: JEREMY W. PETERS and MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1494 words



HIGHLIGHT: The leading candidates are both high-profile politicians with their
share of detractors.


WASHINGTON - Rival factions of Republicans are locked in an increasingly caustic
and public battle to influence President-elect Donald J. Trump's choice for
secretary of state, leaving a prominent hole in an otherwise quickly formed
national security team that is unlikely to be filled until next week at the
earliest.

The debate inside Mr. Trump's wide circle of formal and informal advisers -
pitting supporters of one leading contender, Mitt Romney, against those of
another, Rudolph W. Giuliani - has led to the kind of dramatic airing of
differences that characterized Mr. Trump's unconventional and often squabbling
campaign team.

And it traces the outlines of the enduring split in the Republican Party between
establishment figures who scoffed at Mr. Trump's chances of victory and the
grass-roots insurgents who backed him as a disrupter of the Washington power
structure.

The most publicly vocal faction has been the group opposed to Mr. Romney, which
has questioned whether he would be loyal after his searing criticism of Mr.
Trump during the campaign. But Mr. Trump himself has told aides that he believes
Mr. Romney "looks the part" and would make a fine secretary of state, a senior
Trump official said on Thursday. Mr. Trump, who is always difficult to read and
is capable of changing his mind at any minute, has also praised Mr. Giuliani in
recent conversations with acquaintances.

Even Thanksgiving did not provide a reprieve from the extraordinary public
efforts to cast doubt on Mr. Romney. Mr. Trump's campaign manager, Kellyanne
Conway, said on Twitter that she had received "a deluge" of concern from people
warning against picking Mr. Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee and
former Massachusetts governor.

Those raising concerns about Mr. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor and an
early and loyal supporter of Mr. Trump, have said they fear that his tangle of
foreign business ties could lead to a damaging confirmation battle. They also
worry that Mr. Giuliani lacks the vigor for the globe-trotting job.

Both Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani have made their interest in the role known to
Mr. Trump. But while Mr. Giuliani has been very public about his intentions -
angering Mr. Trump at times with his statements - Mr. Romney has been more
reserved.

The split over the two men has opened the door for another candidate altogether.
One potential pick Mr. Trump and his team have entertained is Gen. John F. Kelly
of the Marines, a former head of the United States Southern Command. Others are
David H. Petraeus, the retired general and former C.I.A. director, and Senator
Bob Corker of Tennessee, according to two people involved in the process.

Asked about Mr. Trump's deliberations, a spokesman, Jason Miller, said in an
email Thursday, "The president-elect is meeting with a number of well-qualified
potential selections for this important position who share his America First
foreign policy - some of whom have been made public and others who have not -
and the president-elect will make public his decision when he has finalized it."

Mr. Romney would represent a departure from the hard-liners Mr. Trump has
already picked for his national security team. But aides like Stephen K. Bannon,
Mr. Trump's chief strategist, have expressed doubts about Mr. Romney's loyalty
given his denunciation of Mr. Trump as a "phony" and a "fraud." Mr. Bannon and
others have told colleagues they fear that a State Department under Mr. Romney
could turn into something of a rogue agency.

Asked to explain her Twitter post about Mr. Romney, Ms. Conway said that while
she trusted Mr. Trump's judgment, she found it notable that the most outrage
directed at Mr. Trump from the party's grass-roots "is not against something he
said, but something he may do." In another post, she said that being "loyal" was
an important characteristic for a secretary of state.

Others hoping to catch Mr. Trump's ear have taken their message to a place they
know he is likely to absorb it: cable news. Joe Scarborough, the MSNBC host, who
has spoken with Mr. Trump about his concerns that Mr. Giuliani would not be
confirmed by the Senate, has taken to making those arguments on a daily basis on
his morning show, which he knows Mr. Trump watches.

Others, like Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker, and Mike
Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, have gone on television to try to
dissuade Mr. Trump from picking Mr. Romney. Mr. Huckabee, who said during the
2008 presidential campaign that Mr. Romney reminded voters of "the guy who laid
them off," told Fox News on Wednesday that picking Mr. Romney would be "a real
insult" to Mr. Trump's supporters. Mr. Giuliani is a favorite of the Republican
voters who turned out in large numbers to lift Mr. Trump to victory.

Sean Hannity, a Fox News host whose opinion Mr. Trump often privately solicits,
has also been deeply critical of Mr. Romney on his show.

Shortly after the election, Mr. Giuliani told associates that he believed the
job was his. He had communicated to Mr. Trump's top advisers that it was the
only post he was interested in, according to the people briefed on the
discussions.

But he began to run afoul of Mr. Trump when he told a Wall Street Journal forum
that he would probably be a better candidate than John R. Bolton, who served as
one of George W. Bush's ambassadors to the United Nations.

And when reports surfaced about Mr. Giuliani's foreign business entanglements
and highly compensated speechmaking, Mr. Trump grew even warier. His firm,
Giuliani Partners, has had contracts with the government of Qatar, and Mr.
Giuliani has given paid speeches to a shadowy Iranian opposition group that
until 2012 was on the State Department's list of foreign terrorist
organizations.

As a backup plan, some of Mr. Trump's aides encouraged him to meet with Mr.
Romney. Though some in Mr. Trump's inner circle, like Reince Priebus, his choice
for chief of staff, thought that such a meeting would anger the
president-elect's supporters, Mr. Trump went ahead. In the meantime, he started
sounding out Mr. Giuliani on a different post, director of national
intelligence. Mr. Trump's advisers have discussed the role for Mr. Giuliani, but
there has been no indication he wants it.

What many people believed would be a perfunctory meeting with Mr. Romney last
weekend at Mr. Trump's golf club in Bedminster, N.J., turned into something more
substantial.

Mr. Trump liked Mr. Romney quite a bit, and was intrigued by the possibility of
such a camera-ready option to represent the country around the globe, advisers
to Mr. Trump said. The following day, Mr. Giuliani met with Mr. Trump and urged
him to make a decision in one direction or the other.

Mr. Romney, who was mocked in 2012 when he described Russia as the greatest
geopolitical foe of the United States, has seen his stock in the Republican
Party rise since his loss to President Obama, although he is still viewed
skeptically by the party's grass-roots. His allies believe that his position on
Russia has been vindicated, but it is starkly at odds with Mr. Trump's stated
desire for a better relationship with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin.

Privately, Mr. Giuliani has expressed his frustration at going from front-runner
for secretary of state to a contender who has to convince Mr. Trump of his
strengths. He is particularly irritated over the focus on his business ties.

The option of a third person like General Kelly has gained currency in recent
days inside the transition team. A respected leader, General Kelly served as the
senior military assistant to former Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta. He led
the Southern Command, responsible for all United States military activities in
South and Central America, for four years under Mr. Obama. And his appointment
would fit Mr. Trump's inclination toward putting people with combat experience
in senior foreign policy roles.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Jeremy W. Peters reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.
Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.

PHOTOS: MITT ROMNEY: The 2012 Republican presidential nominee is one of Donald
J. Trump's leading candidates for secretary of state.; RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI: The
former mayor of New York City was an early and loyal supporter of Mr. Trump's
campaign. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); GEN. JOHN F.
KELLY: A Marine and the former head of the United States Southern Command has
emerged as an alternative pick. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
- GETTY IMAGES) (A20)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Meets With Romney as He Starts to Look Outside His Inner Circle
     ·    How Rudolph Giuliani, Possible Cabinet Pick, Made Millions as Ex-Mayor
     ·    Rudolph Giuliani's Business Ties Viewed as Red Flag for Secretary of
          State Job
     ·    Diplomatic, He's Not. But Giuliani Might Be Our Top Diplomat.
     ·    Rudy Giuliani, America's Mayor, Rolls the Dice


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             709 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 24, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Trump Signs, Trees and Accusations That a New York Agency Is Biased

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 764 words



HIGHLIGHT: When his signs supporting Donald J. Trump for president were stolen
or vandalized at his home in Queens, Michael Ricatto tried to catch the
perpetrator. What happened next was a surprise.


In the run-up to the presidential election, New York City was hardly Trump
territory.

And every time Michael Ricatto put another display of Trump campaign signs up on
the lawn of his sizable white house on Abingdon Road in Kew Gardens, Queens,
last summer, they were stolen or knocked down, actions that would later set off
a series of events as unpredictable as the election itself.

Infuriated by the thefts, as well as an obscenity about Donald J. Trump that had
been spray-painted on the public mailbox in front of his house, Mr. Ricatto
installed a security camera.

It captured a grainy image of a sign-stealer. Mr. Ricatto, 59 and a real estate
investor, then printed fliers bearing the image and a $5,000 reward offer for
information leading to the arrest of the sign thief. He hired some local
teenagers to post the signs around the neighborhood with tape. When the tape ran
out, he said, the teenagers used a stapler to post the fliers to trees on the
streets.

The hubbub made the news, and the stapling method was mentioned. In the weeks
that followed, a team of enforcement officers from the parks department arrived
at Mr. Ricatto's house, he said, and issued him 22 summonses with fines totaling
$1,500 and citing unauthorized posting and "minor tree damage" to 11 trees.

To Mr. Ricatto, his real transgression was supporting Mr. Trump, a Republican,
which he claims annoyed Democratic city officials.

"Let's call it staple-gate," said Mr. Ricatto, who calls himself a conservative,
a proud gun owner and a fan of Ronald Reagan and John Wayne.

A supporter of Mr. Trump's Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, would never
have been cited in this situation, he fumed, and said that official parks
department signs are often affixed to trees with similar staples.

"People in New York City don't like conservatives," he said. "They wanted to
teach me a lesson about being outspoken, and about who I believe in. So they
found something to hang their hat on."

Mr. Ricatto said he paid the summonses because "I didn't want the headache" of
fighting them, nor the expense of hiring a lawyer.

Instead of backing down, he splurged on a larger Trump banner to hang in front
of his house, and he called the prominent civil rights lawyer Ron Kuby to see if
he had any grounds to sue the city for damages claiming political bias.

In an interview, Mr. Kuby said that he thought the summons was "a wild
overreaction" by the city, but that a suit by Mr. Ricatto claiming "selective
enforcement based on his Trump leanings would be difficult case to make."

A parks department spokesman dismissed the claim that the summonses were
political and called them a routine penalty for damage to the trees.

"The fine had nothing to do with the content of the signs Mr. Ricatto posted and
everything to do with the fact that staples can damage and even kill trees," the
spokesman, Sam Biederman, said in a statement. He added that the fine was
determined by the city's administrative court and "not based on the amount of
damage or the cost associated, but rather on the rule broken."

The order to cite Mr. Ricatto set off something of a parallel episode within the
parks department.

An enforcement supervisor ordered a sergeant to write the 22 tickets. But the
sergeant, Joe Oro, 54, refused, arguing that it was improper to write summonses
weeks after the signs had been removed, with no witnesses to the violations.

"They were bogus summonses," said Sergeant Oro, a veteran with 29 years on the
job. "I might as well hit every dog owner who puts up a 'lost puppy' sign."

He said he also consulted a superior officer, "and he told me, 'Stay out of it -
it's too political.'"

A rookie officer wound up writing the summons, said Sergeant Oro, who has had
previous run-ins with the agency as an outspoken member of his union, Local 983
of DC 37.

The local's president, Joe Puleo, characterized department officials as using
the officers as "pawns for their political favoritism" in this case.

Sergeant Oro said he was included in an email conversation about possibly
forcing Mr. Ricatto to pay $41,000 in damage for the staple holes, a proposition
that an agency lawyer replied to incredulously, in the email chain.

As for Mr. Ricatto, President-elect Trump's victory is a bit of revenge. Last
week, he bought and hung a new, larger banner.

"I Told You So," the banner reads. "Trump Trump Trump Trump."

PHOTO: Michael Ricatto at his home in Queens this week. When his Trump signs
were stolen last summer, he stapled fliers to trees to try to catch the thief,
drawing fines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             710 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 24, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Warning Russia on Hacking Isn't Enough;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 524 words



HIGHLIGHT: Because Mr. Trump, an outspoken admirer of Mr. Putin, is unlikely to
act, it is up to Mr. Obama to hold the Russian president to account.


After the stunning disclosures last month that Russia had tried to interfere
with the election by hacking the Democratic National Committee, the Obama
administration hinted at some kind of retaliation. So far, however, its only
known response has been to publicly identify the Russians as the culprits and
warn them against interfering again in America's democratic processes.

President Obama should not stop there, as some administration officials suggest
he might. Doing so would allow Russia to believe it can operate with impunity in
cyberspace and could even invite further hacking. Because Donald Trump, an
outspoken admirer of Vladimir Putin, is unlikely to act, it is up to Mr. Obama
to hold the Russian president to account. (Even after intelligence briefings
confirming Moscow's involvement, Mr. Trump refused to blame the Russians and
said, "Maybe there is no hacking.")

A stronger White House response would begin with Mr. Obama revealing more
information about how the hacking was done and by whom. He could also decide to
disclose Russian computer codes, embarrass wealthy Kremlin officials by exposing
their overseas bank accounts and even disable Russian networks. And he could
impose sanctions on Russians who were responsible for the hacking or on military
leaders who are bombing civilians in Syria. Whatever he decides, the trick will
be to do it without igniting a cyberwar.

The hacking involved emails from the Democratic National Committee and from John
Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, which were then leaked to
WikiLeaks. Democratic leaders were embarrassed, and Mr. Trump's campaign gained
an advantage. "This was a conscious effort by a nation-state to attempt to
achieve a specific effect," Adm. Michael Rogers, the director of the National
Security Agency, said last week.

Mr. Obama is said to have chosen a conservative response to this behavior
because he did not wish to invite further Russian interference in the election.
Nor did he wish to be seen as acting for political reasons. At least for now,
the warnings appear to have halted further Russian cyberattacks. And there is an
understandable reluctance in the White House to pre-empt Mr. Obama's successor
by taking additional action.

Americans cannot know for certain that the hacking has ended. Many experts doubt
that warnings alone will be enough to deter Mr. Putin, who has shown no
hesitation in challenging America during the postelection transition by
continuing to bomb Aleppo, in Syria, and by installing new nuclear-capable
missiles in Kaliningrad, Russia, near the NATO border.

Senator Lindsey Graham has called for congressional hearings to broadly examine
Russia's relationship with the United States, including its role in the hacking,
while Senator Ben Cardin has suggested imposing new sanctions. Regardless of
what Mr. Obama decides, Congress has a responsibility to pursue paths to ensure
that the country's electoral system is not similarly compromised in the future.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEANDRO CASTELAO)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             711 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 25, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

U.S. Officials Defend Integrity of Vote, Despite Hacking Fears

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1395 words



HIGHLIGHT: Some opponents of Donald J. Trump are seeking recounts in Wisconsin,
Michigan and Pennsylvania, states where his margin of victory was extremely
thin.


WASHINGTON - The Obama administration said on Friday that despite Russian
attempts to undermine the presidential election, it has concluded that the
results "accurately reflect the will of the American people."

The statement came as liberal opponents of Donald J. Trump, some citing fears of
vote hacking, are seeking recounts in three states - Wisconsin, Michigan and
Pennsylvania - where his margin of victory was extremely thin.

A drive by Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate, for recounts in those states
had brought in more than $5 million by midday on Friday, her campaign said, and
had increased its goal to $7 million. She filed for a recount in Wisconsin on
Friday, about an hour before the deadline.

In its statement, the administration said, "The Kremlin probably expected that
publicity surrounding the disclosures that followed the Russian
government-directed compromises of emails from U.S. persons and institutions,
including from U.S. political organizations, would raise questions about the
integrity of the election process that could have undermined the legitimacy of
the president-elect."

That was a reference to the breach of the Democratic National Committee's email
system, and the leak of emails from figures like John D. Podesta, Hillary
Clinton's campaign chairman.

"Nevertheless, we stand behind our election results, which accurately reflect
the will of the American people," it added.

Supporters of Mrs. Clinton have enthusiastically backed the notion of
challenging the results in the three states as a last-ditch effort to reverse
Mr. Trump's clear majority in the Electoral College. They have seized on
suggestions by some computer scientists that the states, which were crucial to
Mr. Trump's victory, need to manually review paper ballots to ensure the
election was not hacked.

The campaign, uniting around the hashtag #AuditTheVote, has picked up momentum
among grass-roots activists still mourning Mr. Trump's victory. But the pleas
for recounts have gained no support from the Clinton campaign, which has
concluded that it is highly unlikely to change the outcome.

In Michigan, Ms. Stein must wait for a Monday meeting of the state's Board of
Canvassers to certify the results of the Nov. 8 balloting before filing for a
recount. In Pennsylvania, where paper ballots are used only in some areas,
election officials said that the deadline to petition for a recount had passed,
but that a candidate could challenge the result in court before a Monday
deadline.

The recount efforts have generated pushback by experts who said it would be
enormously difficult to hack voting machines on a large scale. The
administration, in its statement, confirmed reports from the Department of
Homeland Security and intelligence officials that they did not see "any
increased level of malicious cyberactivity aimed at disrupting our electoral
process on Election Day."

The administration said it remained "confident in the overall integrity of
electoral infrastructure, a confidence that was borne out." It added: "As a
result, we believe our elections were free and fair from a cybersecurity
perspective."

However, intelligence officials are still investigating the impact of a broader
Russian "information warfare" campaign, in which fake news about Mrs. Clinton,
and about United States-Russia relations, appeared intended to influence voters.
Many of those false reports originated from RT News and Sputnik, two
state-funded Russian sites.

Those fake-news reports were widely circulated on social media, independent
studies, including one set for release soon, have shown, sometimes in an
organized fashion by groups that appear to have had common ownership.
Individuals, conservative talk-show hosts and activists recirculated them, often
not knowing, or apparently not caring, about the accuracy of the reports.

A study published just before the election on War on the Rocks, written by
Andrew Weisburd, Clinton Watts and J. M. Berger, documented efforts by "trolls"
to attack the reputations of those who challenged Russia's activities in Syria,
and to spread rumors about Mrs. Clinton's health. The study said that an effort
to track 7,000 social media accounts over two and a half years indicated that
support for Mr. Trump "isn't the end of Russia's social media and hacking
campaign in America, but merely the beginning."

But the misinformation effort is far from black-and-white. Many people who
spread false news have no connections to any foreign power, including a man in
Austin, Tex., who posted a Twitter message saying that paid protesters were
being bused to an anti-Trump demonstration there. Though the report quickly went
viral, the buses, it turned out, were there for a corporate conference.

Other examples, including one studied by a group called Propaganda or Not and
first cited by The Washington Post, appear to have more concrete connections to
Russia. In late August, stories suggesting that Mrs. Clinton might have
Parkinson's disease were circulated on trupundit.com, which often runs
pro-Russian material. It clearly twisted an email sent by one of Mrs. Clinton's
top aides about a drug called Provigil that is used to treat sleepiness. It has
also been prescribed to patients with sleepiness as a side effect from several
different ailments, the email added, including "Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and
multiple sclerosis."

That single reference was enough to create a fake story suggesting that Mrs.
Clinton was being treated for Parkinson's.

The allegation was quickly shot down by several news organizations. It made
little difference: Propaganda or Not, made up of former national security,
intelligence and other professionals, and some workers at Google and other
technology firms, concluded that it was reproduced tens of thousands of times,
sometimes by botnets, and viewed millions of times.

But it is not known whether that news was circulated under Russian government
direction, or simply by Russian sympathizers, or Mrs. Clinton's opponents.

The barrage of online efforts to influence the election this year has prompted
broader concerns that similar attempts, directed by the Kremlin or its
surrogates, could now be focused on elections next year in Germany and France.
The goal, intelligence officials and outside experts fear, is to undermine the
cohesiveness of the Western alliance, particularly NATO members, by calling into
question the validity of democratic elections.

"We simply don't know what the effects of the 'fake news' and other
disinformation was," said Jason Healey, an expert on cyberconflict at Columbia
University. "If they were able to influence in favor of Trump by one or two
percentage points in some places, they will be encouraged to try again for the
French and the Germans."

The efforts have also prompted debate inside Facebook and other social media
firms about their responsibility to filter out false news. But doing so is a
complex task, akin to editing a news operation, and it comes with complex
political calculations: Once social media firms begin editing here to American
standards, they will be under pressure from authoritarian regimes to do the same
to their standards.

In its statement, the administration focused chiefly on the threat of Russian
manipulation of the vote on Election Day, not on the proliferation of propaganda
and fake news.

Ms. Stein, of the Green Party, acknowledged on Thursday in an interview with the
PBS "NewsHour" that it was unlikely that recounts could change the results.
Still, she said that "this was an election in which we saw hacking all over the
place," and that "at the same time, we have a voting system which has been
proven to basically be wide open to hackers."

Trip Gabriel contributed reporting from New York.

PHOTOS: Emails of John D. Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, were
leaked after Russian government-directed hacking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HODGSON FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES); Election Day in Wisconsin, where a petition for a recount
has been filed by Jill Stein, the Green Party's presidential candidate.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMBER ARNOLD/WISCONSIN STATE JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12)


Related Articles


     ·    Hillary Clinton Supporters Call for Vote Recount in Battleground
          States
     ·    White House Confirms Pre-Election Warning to Russia Over Hacking
     ·    American Elections Will Be Hacked
     ·    Investigating Donald Trump, F.B.I. Sees No Clear Link to Russia


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             712 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 25, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

A Candidate Rises on Vows to Control Islam and Immigration. This Time in France.

BYLINE: ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1443 words



HIGHLIGHT: François Fillon's promises to limit immigration and protect
conservative values in France have helped propel him to the front of the
presidential field.


CHASSIEU, France - A patriotic sea of supporters, waving red, white and blue
flags, greeted the newly ascendant presidential hopeful François Fillon this
week at a soulless conference center in this suburb of Lyon.

Mr. Fillon described radical Islam as a "totalitarianism like the Nazis" to the
cheers of an enthusiastic crowd, adding that France would need Russia's help to
fight it. Catholics, Protestants and Jews "don't denounce the values of the
Republic," he thundered - unlike the faithful of a certain other religion.

"We've got to reduce immigration to its strict minimum," he said. "Our country
is not a sum of communities, it is an identity!"

In a year when nativist politics have become the ticket to electoral victory,
Mr. Fillon, 62, a dark-suited, stern-faced former prime minister has managed to
successfully ride the same nationalist and xenophobic currents as that have
pushed politicians in Britain and the United States to victory.

For months, Mr. Fillon polled third and even fourth among presidential
contenders in France and was largely dismissed. But his defense of French values
and identity has suddenly made him the front-runner as France's right-center
Republican Party prepares to vote Sunday in a runoff to choose its
standard-bearer in the 2017 elections - and quite possibly the next president of
France.

That strategy has not only vaulted Mr. Fillon to the front of the pack,
surprising the French news media, pundits and politicians. It has also has
shifted the playing field for French conservatives far to the right, snug
alongside the far-right National Front, led by Marine Le Pen, who may be his
strongest challenger next year.

The two are now competing for some of the same voters, but the xenophobic,
anti-immigrant National Front is not regarded as respectable by many
middle-class French people, particularly Catholics.

Mr. Fillon, on the other hand, has positioned himself as a staunch defender of
French values, vowing to restore authority, honor the Roman Catholic Church and
exert "strict administrative control" over Islam.

Such appeals were met with fervent cheers during his campaign rally here by
supporters who agreed that French identity and French values were under threat
from both Islam and the secular left.

If those themes sound familiar to the ones that already shaped pivotal votes in
Britain and the United States this year, it is because they are. And Mr. Fillon,
an unsmiling political veteran, has used them to remarkable effect in France to
change his political fortunes.

Few analysts give France's Socialists and their unpopular president, François
Hollande, a strong chance in the spring. But Mr. Fillon, with his dark-eyed
frown, suggests a return to authority, and the rally crowd of about 5,000 here
loved it.

"He really respects French values, and that is very, very important to us," said
Vincent Robert, a man in late middle-age who said he was a retired artisan.

"There is uprightness and frankness," Mr. Robert said. "And incredible
enthusiasm for him in the middle class."

His friend Bruno Perrin, a retired management consultant, was equally in thrall.
"It's his defense of values - Christianity, the family, our traditions - that is
what we like," he said.

Mr. Fillon's supporters say he is now the candidate best placed to bar Ms. Le
Pen's path to victory.

Analysts, however, warn that Mr. Fillon's proposed austerity cure for France's
economic stagnation - cutting 500,000 Civil Service positions and 100 billion
euros (about $105 billion) in spending - could be just the thing to push
frightened voters into the arms of the National Front leader.

Still, parishioners at Paris's solidly bourgeois Sainte-Trinité church, a
hulking 19th-century neo-Renaissance monument that looms over a busy square,
were in no doubt that Mr. Fillon was the one.

"He's got a sense of honesty and the family," said one churchgoer, Cécile
Despointes, after midday Mass this week. "A man of courage and perseverance."

It is a surprising turnabout for Mr. Fillon, who just weeks ago was best known
as the unsuccessful prime minister from 2007-2012 of a failed French president,
Nicolas Sarkozy, who mocked him behind his back.

"Courage, Fillon!" Mr. Sarkozy would say derisively, Patrick Buisson, a
far-right journalist and one-time adviser to Mr. Sarkozy, wrote in his recent
book "The People's Cause."

Then, Mr. Fillon trumped both Mr. Sarkozy - humiliating him in Sunday's round of
voting - and the pollsters.

He came out on top in 87 of France's 101 départements, or districts, with 44
percent of the vote, 16 points ahead of the rival he faces Sunday, another
former prime minister, Alain Juppé. Mr. Fillon won in Paris and in rural France.

Mr. Juppé's more moderate agenda - fewer cuts in the Civil Service and public
spending, less accommodation of Russia, friendlier to gay couples - attracted
left-leaning voters, which in turn disturbed the right's traditional electorate.

"It bothered me that so many people on the left voted for him," Michel Carron, a
rural official who attended the rally here, said of Mr. Juppé.

Mr. Fillon "defends our values," he said. "We're in a sort of despair, and he
makes us live," Mr. Carron said, adding that he knows National Front
sympathizers who voted for him.

As in the United States, the pollsters had failed to detect a hidden yearning
for the restoration of a mythical older France, rural and dominated by the
values of a conservative Roman Catholic Church.

"The media, television, they are out of phase with the population, which is fed
up with being called xenophobic and racist," said Ms. Despointes, after Mass
outside Sainte-Trinité in Paris.

Mr. Fillon is not keen on social changes like same-sex marriage and chafes at
being the "vassal" of America, as he put it in his speech here. The crowd at the
rally was almost all white.

"He'll help us to find our identity again," said Jacqueline Badoux, a retired
teacher who attended the rally.

"In the fight against Islamic State, he will have the authority," said Ms.
Badoux's husband, Bernard, also a retired teacher, who approved mightily of Mr.
Fillon's performance here.

The very qualities the mercurial big-city Mr. Sarkozy made fun of, according to
Mr. Buisson - Mr. Fillon's rural origins and ponderousness, "his legendary
caution and his silences" - earned him favor with the crowd here.

"This country is the daughter of Christianity, as well as the Enlightenment,"
Mr. Fillon told the crowd outside Lyon. "I will put the family back at the heart
of all public policy." The crowd roared.

Catholics are gravitating toward him because "for the essential values - family,
nation, identity - Fillon incarnates them with a certain tranquillity," said the
Rev. Pierre-Hervé Grosjean, a Versailles priest who writes an influential
Catholic blog.

"There's a desire to break with the spirit of May '68 and go back to the values
of family and education, to a France that is not ashamed of its roots," said
Father Grosjean, referring to a period when thousands of demonstrators took to
the streets protesting France's old-world order. For Catholics, "he captures
this alliance between conviction and realism," he said.

At the rally, Mr. Fillon promised to bring back school uniforms, restore respect
in schools and stand up to America.

Mr. Fillon is reminiscent of President-elect Donald J. Trump in a significant
way: He is friendlier toward Russia and its leader, Vladimir V. Putin.

Indeed, the French news media has detailed his numerous ties to Mr. Putin - he
has stayed at Mr. Putin's residence at Sochi, according to the newspaper Le
Monde, and played billiards with him.

He even received a bottle of wine from the Russian leader on the death of his
mother, according tothe newsmagazine L'Express, which described Mr. Fillon as
the French politician who "appreciates" Mr. Putin the most.

Such concerns, it appears, did little to damage Mr. Trump's candidacy in the
United States. Similarly, they may be just as easy to overlook for supporters of
Mr. Fillon like Ms. Despointes.

"He's a man of conviction," she said outside Sainte-Trinité. "For people who
have moral values."

PHOTO: François Fillon at a rally in Paris on Friday. He has managed to ride the
same nationalist and xenophobic currents that have pushed politicians in Britain
and the United States to victory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS SAMSON/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES) (A6)

Related Articles


     ·    Nicolas Sarkozy Is Out as François Fillon Takes Surprise Lead in
          French Primary
     ·    After Trump Win, Parallel Path Is Seen for Marine Le Pen of France's
          Far Right
     ·    An Unlikely Contender Rises in France as the Antithesis of Trump
     ·    Nicolas Sarkozy Mounts What He Hopes Is a Comeback in France


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             713 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 25, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Inside a Fake News Sausage Factory: 'This Is All About Income'

BYLINE: ANDREW HIGGINS, MIKE McINTIRE and GABRIEL J.X. DANCE

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 2148 words



HIGHLIGHT: A computer science student in a former Soviet republic found there
was money to be made in mixing real and made-up stories, as long as they were
pro-Trump.


TBILISI, Georgia - Jobless and with graduation looming, a computer science
student at the premier university in the nation of Georgia decided early this
year that money could be made from America's voracious appetite for passionately
partisan political news. He set up a website, posted gushing stories about
Hillary Clinton and waited for ad sales to soar.

"I don't know why, but it did not work," said the student, Beqa Latsabidze, 22,
who was savvy enough to change course when he realized what did drive traffic:
laudatory stories about Donald J. Trump that mixed real - and completely fake -
news in a stew of anti-Clinton fervor.

More than 6,000 miles away in Vancouver, a Canadian who runs a satirical
website, John Egan, had made a similar observation. Mr. Egan's site, The Burrard
Street Journal, offers sendups of the news, not fake news, and he is not trying
to fool anyone. But he, too, discovered that writing about Mr. Trump was a "gold
mine." His traffic soared and his work, notably a story that President Obama
would move to Canada if Mr. Trump won, was plundered by Mr. Latsabidze and other
internet entrepreneurs for their own websites.

"It's all Trump," Mr. Egan said by telephone. "People go nuts for it."

With Mr. Obama now warning of the corrosive threat from fake political news
circulated on Facebook and other social media, the pressing question is who
produces these stories, and how does this overheated, often fabricated news
ecosystem work?

Some analysts worry that foreign intelligence agencies are meddling in American
politics and using fake news to influence elections. But one window into how the
meat in fake sausages gets ground can be found in the buccaneering internet
economy, where satire produced in Canada can be taken by a recent college
graduate in the former Soviet republic of Georgia and presented as real news to
attract clicks from credulous readers in the United States. Mr. Latsabidze said
his only incentive was to make money from Google ads by luring people off
Facebook pages and onto his websites.

To gin up material, Mr. Latsabidze often simply cut and pasted, sometimes
massaging headlines but mostly just copying material from elsewhere, including
Mr. Egan's prank story on Mr. Obama. Mr. Egan was not amused to see his
satirical work on Mr. Latsabidze's website and filed a copyright infringement
notice to defend his intellectual property.

Yet Mr. Egan conceded a certain professional glee that Mr. Trump is here to
stay. "Now that we've got him for four years," he said, "I can't believe it."

By some estimates, bogus news stories appearing online and on social media had
an even greater reach in the final months of the presidential campaign than
articles by mainstream news organizations.

Soul Searching

Since then, internet giants like Facebook and Google have engaged in soul
searching over their roles in disseminating false news. Google announced that it
would ban websites that host fake news from using its online advertising
service, while Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, outlined some of the
options his company was considering, including simpler ways for users to flag
suspicious content.

In Tbilisi, the two-room rented apartment Mr. Latsabidze shares with his younger
brother is an unlikely offshore outpost of America's fake news industry. The two
brothers, both computer experts, get help from a third young Georgian, an
architect.

They say they have no keen interest in politics themselves and initially placed
bets across the American political spectrum and experimented with show business
news, too. They set up a pro-Clinton website, walkwithher.com, a Facebook page
cheering Bernie Sanders and a web digest of straightforward political news
plagiarized from The New York Times and other mainstream news media.

But those sites, among the more than a dozen registered by Mr. Latsabidze, were
busts. Then he shifted all his energy to Mr. Trump. His flagship pro-Trump
website, departed.co, gained remarkable traction in a crowded field in the
prelude to the Nov. 8 election thanks to steady menu of relentlessly pro-Trump
and anti-Clinton stories. (On Wednesday, a few hours after The New York Times
met with Mr. Latsabidze to ask him about his activities, the site vanished along
with his Facebook page.)

"My audience likes Trump," he said. "I don't want to write bad things about
Trump. If I write fake stories about Trump, I lose my audience."

Some of his Trump stories are true, some are highly slanted and others are
totally false, like one this summer reporting that "the Mexican government
announced they will close their borders to Americans in the event that Donald
Trump is elected President of the United States." Data compiled by Buzzfeed
showed that the story was the third most-trafficked fake story on Facebook from
May to July.

So successful was the formula that others in Georgia and other faraway lands
joined in, too, including Nika Kurdadze, a college acquaintance of Mr.
Latsabidze's who set up his own pro-Trump site, newsbreakshere.com. Its recent
offerings included a fake report headlined: "Stop it Liberals...Hillary Lost the
Popular Vote by Several Million. Here's Why." That story, like most of Mr.
Latsabidze's work, was pilfered from the web.

Mr. Latsabidze initially ran into no problems from all his cutting and pasting
of other people's stories, and he even got ripped off himself when a rival in
India hijacked a pro-Trump Facebook page he had set up to drive traffic to his
websites. (He said that the Indian rival had offered $10,000 to buy the page,
but that he had reneged on payment after being provided with access rights and
commandeered it for himself.)

Then the notice arrived from Mr. Egan in Canada, which prompted the company that
hosts Mr. Latsabidze's websites, including departed.co, to shut them down for
two days until he removed the offending story.

"It was really bad for me," Mr. Latsabidze recalled. "Traffic dropped and I had
to start everything all over again."

Mr. Egan, for his part, said he did not like others making money unfairly off
his labor. And he estimated that "probably half" the readers of his stories
believe they are true because of the widespread theft by other websites.

"A lot of that was conservative readers who see it picked up on other sites and
believe it," Mr. Egan said. "In many cases, they haven't actually read it,
they're just reacting to a headline."

Form of Infotainment

Mr. Latsabidze said he was amazed that anyone could mistake many of the articles
he posts for real news, insisting they are simply a form of infotainment that
should not be taken too seriously.

"I don't call it fake news; I call it satire," he said. He avoids sex and
violence because they violate Facebook rules, he said, but he sees nothing wrong
otherwise with providing readers with what they want.

"Nobody really believes that Mexico is going to close its border," he said,
sipping coffee this week in a McDonald's in downtown Tbilisi. "This is crazy."

All the same, the Mexico-closing-its-border story proved so popular after it
appeared on his site that he hunted around on the web for other articles on the
same theme. He found a tall tale about Mexico planning to call back its citizens
from the United States if Mr. Trump won. This, too, generated huge traffic,
though not quite as much as the first one, which Mr. Latsabidze described as "a
really great story."

He insisted he has nothing against Mexicans or Muslims, whose exclusion from the
United States is requested by an online petition that often appears on his
websites and who are invariably presented in a negative light in the stories he
posts.

"I am not against Muslims," he said. "I just saw that there was interest. They
are in the news." Nor, he added, is he particularly against Mrs. Clinton, though
he personally prefers Mr. Trump.

If his pro-Clinton site had taken off, he said, he would have pressed on with
that, but "people did not engage," so he focused on serving pro-Trump supporters
instead. They, he quickly realized, were a far more receptive audience "because
they are angry" and eager to read outrageous tales.

"For me, this is all about income, nothing more," he added.

The income comes mostly from Google, which pays a few cents each time a reader
sees or clicks on advertisements embedded in one of Mr. Latsabidze's websites.
His best month, which coincided with the hit bogus story about Mexico closing
the border, brought in around $6,000, though monthly revenue is usually much
lower.

Mr. Obama, speaking in Berlin last week, assailed the spread of phony news on
Facebook and other platforms, warning that "if we are not serious about facts
and what's true and what's not" and "if we can't discriminate between serious
arguments and propaganda, then we have problems."

While Facebook does not directly provide Mr. Latsabidze any revenue, it plays a
central role in driving traffic to his websites. He initially established
several fake Facebook pages intended to steer traffic to his websites, including
one supposedly set up by a beautiful woman named Valkiara Beka. This woman, he
acknowledged, does not really exist. "She is me," he said.

He discovered, however, that such pages were ineffective compared with
legitimate Facebook pages from real people, particularly Trump supporters,
because they have so much energy and love promoting stories they like.

Departed.co - named after Mr. Latsabidze's favorite movie, "The Departed," and
recently redirected to usatodaycom.com - published dozens of stories daily, many
of them similar to one posted on Nov. 17 with the headline, "This Is Huuge!
International Arrest Warrant Issued By Putin For George Soros!" The story was
not true and had already been published on scores of other fake news sites
around the web.

Then there are the stories that have a grain of truth, along with big dollops of
exaggeration and extrapolation, like "Dying Hillary Says She Just Wants To Curl
Up And Never Leave Her House Again After Defeat." Mrs. Clinton did say the day
after her election defeat that she just wanted to curl up with a book. But she
was not, as far as anyone knows, dying.

Kremlin Suspicions

In the prelude to the election, bogus reports about Mrs. Clinton's health and
highly favorable ones about Mr. Trump were promoted with gusto by Russian
state-controlled news media outlets and legions of pro-Russian internet
agitators. This has stirred suspicions that the Kremlin has had a hand in the
fake news industry, prompting American researchers to assert in recent studies
that the online blurring of the boundary between truth and falsehood is in part
the result of Russian manipulation.

But Mr. Latsabidze and others here say they serve only their bank balances, not
Russia or anything else.

He insisted that his team operated entirely on its own and that it did not want
or need outside help. He said that it took him just two hours to set up a basic
website and that anyone with a modicum of computer savvy could quickly start
hawking news - real or fake - online.

"I did not invent anything," he said. "It has all been done before."

Mr. Latsabidze, who apparently has broken no laws, said that any crackdown on
fake news might work in the short term but that "something else will come along
to replace it."

"If they want to, they can control everything," he said, "but this will stop
freedom of speech."

For now, the postelection period has been bad for business, with a sharp fall in
the appetite for incendiary political news favoring Mr. Trump. Traffic to
departed.co and affiliated websites has plunged in recent weeks by at least 50
percent, Mr. Latsabidze said.

"If Hillary had won, it would be better for us," he said. "I could write about
the bad things she was going to do," he said. "I did not write to make Trump
win. I just wanted to get viewers and make some money."

In the months since he got into the fake news business, Mr. Latsabidze has
landed a day job as a programmer with a software company, which he sees as a
better future. "This is more stable work," he said.

But he seemed reluctant to quit altogether.

"Are there any elections coming up in the U.K.?" Mr. Latsabidze asked.

He was disappointed to hear that none were scheduled soon. But, advised that
France will hold a hotly contested presidential election next April featuring a
Trump-like candidate in the form of Marine Le Pen, a far-right populist, he
perked up.

"Maybe I should learn some French," he said.

Andrew Higgins reported from Tbilisi, Georgia, and Mike McIntire and Gabriel
J.X. Dance from New York.

PHOTO: A fake news article posted by Beqa Latsabidze, a Georgian. "My audience
likes Trump," he said, referring to the president-elect. (A12)

Related Articles


     ·    Facebook and the Digital Virus Called Fake News
     ·    How Fake News Goes Viral: A Case Study
     ·    A Powerful Russian Weapon: The Spread of False Stories
     ·    U.S. Says Russia Directed Hacks to Influence Elections


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             714 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 25, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump Adds K.T. McFarland to His National Security Team

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1279 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ms. McFarland, an aide in three Republican administrations, was named
deputy national security adviser, while Donald F. McGahn II was chosen as White
House counsel.


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald J. Trump filled two lower-profile but
influential White House staff jobs on Friday, while his high-profile candidate
for secretary of housing and urban development, Ben Carson, continued to
deliberate about whether to join the administration.

Mr. Trump offered the housing job this week to Mr. Carson, a neurosurgeon who
challenged him for the Republican presidential nomination. But despite
expectations of a Friday announcement, Mr. Carson was "still pondering," said a
friend, Armstrong Williams. The president-elect's aides said Mr. Trump did not
plan any more cabinet-level announcements until next week.

For the politically sensitive post of White House counsel, Mr. Trump chose
Donald F. McGahn II, a Washington election lawyer who pushed to deregulate
campaign finance and election laws. The counsel's job may be even more daunting
than it was in previous administrations, given Mr. Trump's far-flung business
empire, with which he shows no inclination toward severing ties.

For the equally critical job of deputy national security adviser, Mr. Trump
chose K. T. McFarland, an aide in three Republican White Houses and a Fox News
commentator. She has been highly critical of President Obama's approach to
combating terrorism - a view that aligns her with Mr. Trump's choice for
national security adviser, Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn.

In rolling out the appointments, the Trump transition team lined up testimonials
from big names in both parties.

Former Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, regarded as a foreign policy hawk, praised
Ms. McFarland, 65, as "one of our country's most experienced, informed and wise
foreign policy and national security experts." Mr. Lieberman, a Connecticut
Democrat turned independent, was a Yale College and law school classmate of Ms.
McFarland's husband, Alan R. McFarland, a well-known investment banker.

Edwin Meese III, an attorney general under President Ronald Reagan, said Mr.
McGahn, who was the general counsel for the Trump campaign, had "dealt ably with
the intersection between politics, government ethics and the rule of law." C.
Boyden Gray, a White House counsel to the elder President George Bush, said Mr.
McGahn was well suited to the job because of his "serious prior relationship
with the president" and his "working knowledge of government ethics and election
law."

A brash, guitar-playing conservative born in Atlantic City, Mr. McGahn learned
the fine points of election law from a longtime Republican expert in the field,
Benjamin L. Ginsberg.

At the Federal Election Commission, where he served five years, including terms
as chairman and vice chairman, Mr. McGahn was a powerful voice of opposition to
what he often saw as intrusive government meddling in elections. He also spent
nearly a decade as the general counsel to the National Republican Congressional
Committee.

Ms. McFarland's national security experience dates to the Nixon administration,
when she was an aide to Henry A. Kissinger. She was a staff member on the Senate
Armed Services Committee, a speechwriter for Defense Secretary Caspar W.
Weinberger, and the principal deputy assistant secretary of defense for public
affairs.

She is a familiar presence on Fox News, where she has harshly criticized Mr.
Obama over his handling of the Islamic State. "The president has stuck his head
in the sand," she said in September 2014 after the group had kidnapped and
executed two American journalists.

"To me, it's a dereliction of duty," she added. "What was this president doing?
Well, he was playing a lot of golf this summer, but he clearly was not attending
to the defense of the United States."

In 2006, Ms. McFarland mounted a bid for the Republican nomination for the
Senate in New York. The mayor of Yonkers, John Spencer, defeated her and went on
to lose to the Democratic incumbent, Hillary Clinton. During the campaign, Ms.
McFarland came under scrutiny for gilding her résumé - claiming, for example,
that she had been the highest-ranking woman in the Pentagon when, in fact, two
other women outranked her.

The deputy national security adviser has one of the most demanding jobs in the
West Wing, coordinating meetings of deputies and principals to formulate
policies and organizing the vast flow of paperwork from the agencies to the
White House.

"That job is the ultimate policy nuts-and-bolts and paper-pushing job," said
Peter D. Feaver, who served in the National Security Council under President
George W. Bush. "It is all about reviewing policies, framing disagreements and
teeing up decisions. It is supposed to be the place where bad ideas die, and so
places a premium on analytical insight."

"Her early work in the Reagan administration is more important than her recent
work on TV," he said of Ms. McFarland.

As Mr. Trumps fills key staff positions, some of his cabinet decisions have
become complicated. The search for a secretary of state has bogged down as rival
factions argue for Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor and a Trump
loyalist, and Mitt Romney, the former Republican presidential nominee, who
stridently opposed Mr. Trump during the campaign.

Among those raising questions about Mr. Giuliani is Vice President-elect Mike
Pence, according to people in the Trump transition who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss sensitive internal matters. Mr. Pence, they said, has
favored Mr. Romney in internal discussions. Reince Priebus, whom Mr. Trump named
as chief of staff, has said positive things about Mr. Romney but has been more
circumspect, and has tried to offer perspective to Mr. Trump on both men.

But other people, including Kellyanne Conway, who managed the campaign, have
raised questions about Mr. Romney's loyalty after he became one of the most
vocal critics of Mr. Trump's candidacy. Mr. Trump has remarked to people that he
was surprised by the intense resistance to Mr. Romney.

Mr. Romney and Mr. Trump spoke again in recent days, according to people briefed
on the deliberations, and plan to speak again early next week. But some of Mr.
Romney's allies, who have no interest in seeing him apologize for criticizing
Mr. Trump during the campaign, say privately that his chances of being chosen
are dimming.

With Mr. Carson, the delay appears to be less about fissures within the Trump
camp than within Mr. Carson himself.

"He's still pondering, believe it or not," Mr. Williams, his friend, said on
Friday. "Dr. Carson is very methodical, just like he's going through a surgery,
planning every aspect."

Mr. Carson endorsed Mr. Trump after ending his own campaign. But he has appeared
conflicted about joining the administration. Last week, Mr. Williams was quoted
as saying his friend was reluctant to take a job for which he had no experience
and that "could cripple the presidency."

Mr. Carson, however, then took to Facebook, where he has built much of his
grass-roots political following, to say his reasons for declining a cabinet job
had been misreported. He was on Facebook again on Wednesday, explaining his
change of heart.

"After serious discussions with the Trump transition team," Mr. Carson wrote, "I
feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our inner
cities great for everyone."

Reporting was contributed by Maggie Haberman and Trip Gabriel from New York, and
Jeremy W. Peters and Eric Lichtblau from Washington.

PHOTOS: Donald F. McGahn II, left, at Trump Tower last week, was chosen on
Friday to be White House counsel. K. T. McFarland, above, debating during a 2006
Senate run, was named deputy national security adviser. She has worked for three
presidents. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; ANGEL CHEVRESTT)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             715 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 25, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

With North Korea Looming, Trump May Be Rethinking China Showdown;
Memo From Beijing

BYLINE: JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1147 words



HIGHLIGHT: Starting a trade war would jeopardize Beijing's cooperation on
containing the North, whose nuclear capabilities have been increasing sharply.


BEIJING - As a presidential candidate, Donald J. Trump talked about China almost
solely in the context of trade, such as when he promised to slap punishing
tariffs on cheap Chinese imports that he argued had ruined the lives of
working-class Americans.

But as he begins to feel the weight of office on his shoulders, there are signs
that his focus in the Asia region may have shifted toward security -
specifically, the problem of North Korea and its expanding nuclear arsenal,
which experts say already threatens America's regional allies, Japan and South
Korea.

During his visit to The New York Times this week, Mr. Trump referred obliquely
to a "big problem for the country" that President Obama had mentioned during
their 90-minute meeting at the White House after the election. Well-placed
American officials believe that reference was to North Korea.

Any solution to that problem must involve China, North Korea's patron, American
and Chinese officials agree. Mr. Trump acknowledged as much during the campaign,
saying on one occasion that China should do more to bear down on the North.

So which tack will Mr. Trump take with China? Will he seek its support for a
deal on North Korea, or will he start a trade war, putting such cooperation in
doubt?

American officials briefed the Chinese several months ago on their assessment
that the North's nuclear capabilities had sharplyincreased, according to two
Americans with knowledge of the briefings, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter.

But even before then, nuclear scientists from China and the United States had
agreed for some time about the danger posed by the North's ambitions, said
Siegfried S. Hecker, an American nuclear scientist at Stanford University who
was the last outsider to visit the country's plutonium processing plant at
Yongbyon, in November 2010.

Several years ago, the Chinese tended to play down the North's nuclear
capabilities, Dr. Hecker said in an email exchange. But since the mercurial Kim
Jong-un, a young leader who has declined to listen to China and has provoked the
United States, took over the country, the assessments of the two powers have
been "pretty much in line," he said.

Dr. Hecker and other scientists estimate that North Korea might develop the
capacity to strike the West Coast of the United States with a nuclear warhead in
about five years. But the real problem is here and now, in Asia, he said.

"The greatest and most urgent threat comes not from a North Korean nuke being
able to reach the U.S., but rather what they have already," he said.
Specifically, Dr. Hecker wrote in a recent article, the North is now probably
able "to put nuclear weapons on target anywhere in South Korea and Japan and
even on some U.S. assets in the Pacific."

Worse yet, he wrote, North Korea may have developed a "false sense of
confidence" from a recent spate of successful nuclear and missile tests - one
that could lead it to grave errors of judgment.

By the end of this year, Dr. Hecker estimated, the country is likely to have
enough fissile material for about 20 bombs. The danger would be exacerbated if
the North decided "to field tactical nuclear weapons as its arsenal expands and
its confidence in its nuclear arsenal grows."

In short, Dr. Hecker said, more and better bombs make a catastrophic
miscalculation by North Korea more likely.

How much of this Mr. Trump knew before his victory is unclear, but he was
certainly aware of the problem. Early on, he expressed a mixture of awe and
dismay toward Mr. Kim.

"If you look at North Korea, this guy, I mean, he's like a maniac, O.K.?" he
said at a rally in Ottumwa, Iowa, in January.

"And you've got to give him credit. How many young guys - he was like 26 or 25
when his father died - can take over these tough generals?" Mr. Trump was
referring to Mr. Kim's execution of several generals, including his uncle, Jang
Song-thaek, who was the main conduit between North Korea and China.

"We can't play games with him," Mr. Trump said at the time, referring to Mr.
Kim. "Because he really does have missiles, and he really does have nukes."

Such considerations - and briefings that Mr. Trump presumably has received or
will receive on the North's capabilities - could compel the new president to
prioritize security over trade in his dealings with China. With the right
approach, he could find a willing partner in Beijing, said Yang Xiyu, a former
Chinese official who oversaw the so-called six-party talks on the North's
nuclear program that collapsed in 2008.

But Chinese officials say that approach would require removing a thorn in
Beijing's side: an advanced missile defense system that the United States plans
to install in South Korea. The Chinese view that system, known as the Terminal
High Altitude Area Defense System, as an effort to contain its ambitions in
Asia, though Washington and Seoul say it is intended purely to defend South
Korea against the North.

In the past year, China has rebuffed many of Washington's requests for sharper
measures against North Korea, and the missile system is one reason. Whether Mr.
Trump would consider scrapping it is another unknown.

Washington and Beijing did cooperate on United Nations sanctions against the
North this year - an encouraging sign, analysts said, though many doubt that
economic punishment alone will be a deterrent.

And on Friday, the Chinese state-run news media reported that Beijing would
support a new round of sanctions being considered by the Security Council that
would close loopholes allowing North Korea to sell coal.

Mr. Yang, the former official, said the Trump administration must take into
account Beijing's worst fear, where the North is concerned: a collapse of Mr.
Kim's totalitarian regime, followed by refugees from the North pouring into
China and a unified Korean Peninsula under the protection of the American
military. As president, Mr. Trump must understand that Mr. Kim's government has
to stay, Mr. Yang said.

"Remove the bombs, not the regime, is the key to a peaceful solution," Mr. Yang
said. If the United States shares that goal, he said, "we can cooperate
sincerely and substantively."

Yufan Huang contributed research.

PHOTOS: Campaigning early this year in Ottumwa, Iowa, Donald J. Trump said of
North Korea's leader, "He's like a maniac, O.K.?" (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); President Xi Jinping of China in Peru last week. In
dealing with Asia, Mr. Trump will have to balance trade and security concerns.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNESTO BENAVIDES/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES)

Related Articles


     ·    In China-U.S. Trade War, Trump Would Have Weapons
     ·    Asia, a Target of Trump's Criticism, Greets His Election With Caution
     ·    Donald Trump Vows to Rip Up Trade Deals and Confront China
     ·    U.S. Says Chinese Executive Helped North Korea Dodge Sanctions
     ·    Few Expect China to Punish North Korea for Latest Nuclear Test


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             716 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 25, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

How Trump Won the Troops;
Contributing Opinion Writer

BYLINE: J. D. VANCE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 906 words



HIGHLIGHT: The regions and classes that send their children off to war were the
same ones that voted for the president-elect.


In one of the early Democratic presidential debates, the candidates were asked
which enemy they were the proudest of making. Tellingly, most offered a
political response: Hillary Clinton singled out Republicans; Martin O'Malley, a
former Maryland governor, mentioned the National Rifle Association; Senator
Bernie Sanders turned his ire on Wall Street; and Lincoln Chafee, a former Rhode
Island governor, discussed the coal lobby.

Former Senator Jim Webb, the most centrist of the bunch, instead spoke of his
military service: "I would have to say the enemy soldier that threw the grenade
that wounded me, but he's not around right now to talk to."

My family - most of whom live in southwestern Ohio - roared with approval. We
admired not just his skill in war, but his perspective: Senator Webb wasn't a
man whose enemies were made in politics, but in battle. An enemy was someone
trying to kill you, not a fellow citizen who might take a different position on
a political topic.

Meanwhile, many on the cultural left cringed. Twitter exploded with mockery.
MSNBC identified it as a "head-scratching moment." Others criticized Senator
Webb's "creepy" smirk as he responded to the question. Most everyone in my
family knew exactly why he might bring some levity to such a recollection:
because without a sense of humor, much of what goes on in war becomes unbearable
and debilitating. Yet much of the country responded instead with jeers and
condescension.

In August, Gallup published an extensive study on the roots of Donald J. Trump's
support. While the study made waves for complicating the narrative that Mr.
Trump's voters were motivated purely by economic anxiety, one of the paper's
conclusions received little attention: that Mr. Trump draws heavily from
veterans and their relatives.

The military is arguably the most significant social institution in our country.
More than a million Americans serve in the armed forces in some active or
reserve capacity, and that doesn't count the millions more civilian contractors
and recent veterans and their families. To these Americans, the military isn't
just an organ of the national security state; it is a safety net, health care
provider, employer, educator and landlord.

Despite its significance, it doesn't touch all parts of our country equally. The
Pew Research Center found that while a majority of older Americans had some
family ties to the military, only a third of 18- to 29-year-olds did. This is
partly geographic: The military relies heavily on recruits from rural areas and
the South. Kids from the mid-Atlantic and Northeast, on the other hand,
volunteer for service much less frequently.

But it's also about class: Both extremely high- and low-income families are
underrepresented, making military service especially common among the working-
and middle-class voters who form the core of the Republican Party.

The transition after the Vietnam War to an all-volunteer force created the
world's finest professional military. But it also reinforced geographic and
cultural divisions that reveal themselves in our voting. One recent paper found
that in lower- and middle-income families, children with higher test scores are
more likely to enlist, while the opposite held true for upper-income families.
In communities like mine, we send our best and brightest to our armed forces.
Our culture's elites, on the other hand, encourage their children to do just
about anything else.

To serve in the modern military - or to be the uncle, parent or sibling of one
who does - is to treat the necessary service and sacrifice of war with a sacred
honor. In my community, we pile into cars and drive hundreds of miles to watch
our children's graduation from basic training. We shed tears of sorrow when we
drop them at the airport to go to war and tears of joy when we pick them up
after they've returned unharmed. We take our brother to church and ask our
pastor to pray for his safety. We fight on the phone with our wife's health care
provider at Veterans Affairs. We wonder whether that temper a friend developed
in Afghanistan is evidence of a long-term mental health problem.

Admirably, most Americans have managed to separate their political feelings
about a given conflict from their appreciation for those who served. But the
chasm remains, even while most of our fellow citizens enthusiastically support
the troops. They see our Middle East wars as political issues to understand and
debate, not as the signal moment in the lives of the people they care most
about.

Predictably, this division has also infected our political culture: One side
loves our military and lives alongside it; the other party respects - even
reveres - our men and women in uniform. Yet reverence and respect are poor
substitutes for kinship, as Jim Webb himself learned about a year ago.

In a speech announcing that he had ended his long-shot bid for the nomination,
Mr. Webb wondered aloud whether his views were consistent with the "power
structure and the nominating base of the Democratic Party." Hundreds of
thousands - possibly millions - of working-class whites switched their votes
from Barack Obama to Donald Trump. I suspect many of them thought the same thing
when they went to the polls.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

J. D. Vance is the author of "Hillbilly Elegy" and a contributing opinion
writer.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             717 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 25, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Should We Give This President-Elect a Chance?;
Letters

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 367 words



HIGHLIGHT: Readers differ on the latitude Americans should offer the
president-elect.


To the Editor:

Re "12 Steps for Voters in Despair," by Nicholas Kristof (column, Nov. 17):

In the last two presidential elections, the candidate I voted for lost. I did
not do the following: cry for three days; wear muted colors; decide that the
Electoral College system is faulty; take to the streets with a vicious message
on a sign; threaten to move to Canada.

Politics is always about power. It's no different this time. The reaction of the
aggrieved is nothing more than poor sportsmanship dressed up to look noble. They
believe that theirs is a righteous despair, but all that has happened is that a
candidate they disliked won, voted in by people they misjudged as their
inferiors and therefore not entitled to select a president.

I didn't want either candidate, but I will give Donald Trump a chance because
Hillary Clinton asked us to, because I respect the process and because I have
faith in a government framework intended to disseminate power.

MARGARET McGIRR

Greenwich, Conn.

To the Editor:

Re "Let's Now Hope Trump Succeeds," by Nicholas Kristof (column, Nov. 10):

Like many, I have serious concerns about the election of Donald Trump to the
presidency. But people with these concerns should calm down and wait to see what
he will do first. Let him earn the outrage, if indeed he does. The signals are
mixed at this point that he will become that demagogue the founders so worried
about.

It will not be helpful to the country if those on the left or anyone with
serious concerns becomes just as extreme as those on the far right. I agree
fully with Mr. Kristof on this point: Let's grit our teeth, give him a chance
and hold him strictly to account.

CHRISTOPHER FOLLENUS

Windermere, Fla.

To the Editor:

Nicholas Kristof writes, "Having lost, we owe it to our nation to grit our teeth
and give President-elect Trump a chance."

Does Mr. Kristof believe that we Americans still need to give Donald Trump a
chance now that he's appointed Stephen K. Bannon as his top adviser? At what
point will we know that we've given Mr. Trump enough of a chance? When the last
of 11 million undocumented immigrants is deported? When women must flee to
Canada for abortions?

CHRISTOPHER PAVSEK

Vancouver, British Columbia

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             718 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

The Pretend Populism of Donald Trump;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 1108 words



HIGHLIGHT: The "blue-collar billionaire" is looking plenty regal so far.


For a politician who won the White House by railing against the elites and
demonizing the establishment, Donald Trump presented an odd argument for why
Americans should believe, as he does, that his adviser Steve Bannon is no
racist, anti-Semitic ally of the alt-right.

"Steve went to Harvard," Trump reminded about two dozen of us at The Times last
week, and then, a few sentences later, added, "I think he was with Goldman Sachs
on top of everything else."

Well, that certainly settles it. If Bannon has been cleansed in the rose-scented
bathwater of the Ivy League and then spritzed with the perfume of Wall Street,
he can be no ideological outlier, no cultural ruffian, no threat. He knows to
use the smaller, outside fork first and to put his linen napkin on his lap, not
to cut eyeholes in it and wear it over his face.

Trump styled himself as a populist during his flamboyantly provocative campaign,
claiming to hear, understand and channel the working-class Americans so wrongly
ignored by other leaders. Sure, he flew in a private jet at an economic altitude
far above theirs and lived in ostentatious splendor. He was nonetheless the
"blue-collar billionaire," to quote the oxymoron that some of his surrogates
took to using.

Where's that blue collar now? I'm seeing a spotless, perfectly pressed white
one, along with a plush silk necktie and, metaphorically speaking, a pocket
kerchief to boot.

There's a thickening clique of plutocrats around him, as Politico's Ben White
and Matthew Nussbaum noted late last week in an article with the headline
"Trump's Team of Gazillionaires." They observed that his emerging administration
is largely a rich man's (and woman's) club, including Betsy DeVos, his nominee
for education secretary, whose family is worth an estimated $5.1 billion.

Trump is also considering high-level roles for the "oil mogul Harold Hamm ($15.3
billion), investor Wilbur Ross ($2.9 billion), private equity investor Mitt
Romney ($250 million at last count), hedge fund magnate Steve Mnuchin (at least
$46 million) and superlawyer Rudy Giuliani (estimated to be worth tens of
millions of dollars)," according to the Politico article. "And Trump's likely
choice for deputy commerce secretary, Todd Ricketts, comes from the billionaire
family that owns the Chicago Cubs."

That's hardly the oddest or most unsettling part of the Trump transition, which
has been a mesmerizing confirmation of so much about him, including his tendency
to turn every aspect of his life into a self-aggrandizing pageant. It's not
enough for him to interview potential cabinet members: There must be photographs
and footage of them coming to grovel for his favor, as if each is a courtier and
he the king. Where's the populism there?

And for all his thunderous talk before Election Day about "draining the swamp"
of Washington, the water level looks fine, the mosquitoes seem unworried and the
gators remain plentiful and well-fed.

Any suggestion that he would put an end to the self-dealing and personal
enrichment of political insiders is contradicted by Trump himself, who hasn't
provided any concrete assurances that he won't use the presidency to elevate his
and his children's fortunes.

In his interview with The Times, he was emphatic (and correct) that he had no
legal obligation to liquidate any of his holdings or put them in a blind trust.
And while he said that his concerns now are about the country, not his
businesses, he acknowledged, "The brand is certainly a hotter brand than it was
before."

He also volunteered that history provided no real guide for what he should do,
because other presidents hadn't possessed his kind of wealth. The remark came
across as less philosophical than self-congratulatory.

This supposed populist has never been much for humility, and has spent at least
as much time emulating the elites as defying and insulting them. He sent his
children to fancy boarding schools. Three of them later attended the same Ivy
League institution, the University of Pennsylvania, that he graduated from.

The signature ingredient in Melania Trump's short-lived skincare line was
caviar, because, I suppose, nothing says hydration to the everyday American
woman like ingestible fish eggs. Had her business taken off, a white-truffle
facial masque and Dom Perignon toner would surely have followed: populist
ablutions for the parched skin of the little people.

Trump's populist daughter Ivanka appeared on "60 Minutes" wearing a gold and
diamond bracelet that she sells on her website for $10,800. A press release
hawking it was distributed just after the program aired.

Her populist husband, Jared Kushner, who may be the wiliest of all Trump
whisperers, has his own Harvard degree (his is undergraduate, while Bannon
attended the graduate business school) and, as Daniel Golden initially reported
in his eye-opening book "The Price of Admission," Kushner's ticket to Harvard
was punched, despite questionable academic qualifications, after his father made
a $2.5 million donation.

Populists and more populists: Even Giuliani, who prides himself as a hero to the
segment of the electorate that Trump won over, spent his post-mayoral years not
fighting for the forgotten man but raking in many millions from foreign
companies and governments dazzled by his star power. That's why he's no cinch
for secretary of state. A Senate controlled by his fellow Republicans might not
be willing to confirm him. He's too swampy even for the swamp.

I'm not sure how Trump's populism figured into his determination as a young man
to expand his family's real estate business from Brooklyn and Queens into
Manhattan, where the ruling class romped. Or into the location of his gaudiest
palace, Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach.

Or into the staffing decisions he's making now. As the Politico article said,
"Put together, Trump's cabinet and administration could be worth as much as $35
billion, a staggering agglomeration of wealth unprecedented in American
history."

Trump's campaign cast Goldman Sachs as an emblem of all that was sinister and
rigged in an economy that shortchanged the working class. But now it's proof
that Bannon's a respectable guy, and Mnuchin, another of its alums, is
reportedly on Trump's shortlist for Treasury secretary.

And though in some situations Trump plays the skunk at the garden party, in
others he's the garden party itself. He can pantomime populism all he likes. The
reality is still pomp.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             719 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Potential Conflicts Around the Globe for Trump, the Businessman President

BYLINE: RICHARD C. PADDOCK, ERIC LIPTON, ELLEN BARRY, ROD NORDLAND, DANNY HAKIM
and SIMON ROMERO

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 6867 words



HIGHLIGHT: In many of the president-elect's international development ventures,
his business partners have close ties to foreign governments.


MANILA - On Thanksgiving Day, a Philippine developer namedJose E. B. Antonio
hosted a company anniversary bash at one of Manila's poshest hotels. He had much
to be thankful for.

In October, he had quietly been named a special envoy to the United States by
the Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte. Mr. Antonio was nearly finished
building a $150 million tower in Manila's financial district - a 57-story symbol
of affluence and capitalism, which bluntly promotes itself with the slogan "Live
Above the Rest." And now his partner on the project, Donald J. Trump, had just
been elected president of the United States.

After the election, Mr. Antonio flew to New York for a private meeting at Trump
Tower with the president-elect's children, who have been involved in the Manila
project from the beginning, as have Mr. Antonio's children. The Trumps and
Antonios have other ventures in the works, including Trump-branded resorts in
the Philippines, Mr. Antonio's son Robbie Antonio said.

"We will continue to give you products that you can enjoy and be proud of," the
elder Mr. Antonio, one of therichest men in the Philippines, told the 500
friends, employees and customers gathered for his star-studded celebration in
Manila.

Mr. Antonio's combination of jobs - he is a business partner with Mr. Trump,
while also representing the Philippines in its relationship with the United
States and the president-elect - is hardly inconsequential, given some of the
weighty issues on the diplomatic table.

Among them, Mr. Duterte has urged "a separation" from the United States andhas
called for American troops to exit the country in two years' time. His antidrug
crusade has resulted inthe summary killings of thousands of suspected criminals
without trial, prompting criticism from the Obama administration.

Situations like these are already leading some former government officials from
both parties to ask if America's reaction to events around the world could
potentially be shaded, if only slightly, by the Trump family's financial ties
with foreign players. They worry, too, that in some countries those connections
could compromise American efforts to criticize the corrupt intermingling of
state power with vast business enterprises controlled by the political elite.

"It is uncharted territory, really in the history of the republic, as we have
never had a president with such an empire both in the United States and
overseas," said Michael J. Green, who served on the National Security Council in
the administration of George W. Bush, and before that at the Defense Department.

The globe is dotted with such potential conflicts. Mr. Trump's companies have
business operations in at least 20 countries, with a particular focus on the
developing world, including outposts in nations like India, Indonesia and
Uruguay, according to a New York Times analysis of his presidential campaign
financial disclosures. What's more, the true extent of Mr. Trump's global
financial entanglements is unclear, since he has refused to release his tax
returns and has not made public a list of his lenders.

In aninterview with The Times on Tuesday, Mr. Trump boasted again about the
global reach of his business - and his family's ability to keep it running after
he takes office.

"I've built a very great company and it's a big company and it's all over the
world," Mr. Trump said, adding later: "I don't care about my company. It doesn't
matter. My kids run it."

In a written statement, his spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said Mr. Trump and his
family were committed to addressing any issues related to his financial
holdings.

"Vetting of various structures and immediate transfer of the business remains a
top priority for both President-elect Trump, his adult children and his
executives," she said.

But a review by The Times of these business dealings identified a menu of the
kinds of complications that could create a running source of controversy for Mr.
Trump, as well as tensions between his priorities as president and the needs and
objectives of his companies.

In Brazil, for example, the beachfront Trump Hotel Rio de Janeiro - one of Mr.
Trump's many branding deals, in which he does not have an equity stake - is part
of a broad investigation by a federal prosecutor who is examining whether
illicit commissions and bribes resulted in apparent favoritism by two pension
funds that invested in the project.

Several of Mr. Trump's real estate ventures in India - where he has more
projects underway than in any location outside North America - are being built
through companies with family ties to India's most important political party.
This makes it more likely that Indian government officials will do special
favors benefiting Mr. Trump's projects, including pressuring state-owned banks
to extend favorable loans.

In Ireland and Scotland, executives from Mr. Trump's golf courses have been
waging two separate battles with local officials. The most recent centers on the
Trump Organization's plans to build a flood-prevention sea wall at the course on
the Irish coast. Some environmentalists say the wall could destroy an endangered
snail's habitat - a dispute that will soon involve the president of the United
States.

And in Turkey, officials including President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a religiously
conservative Muslim, demanded that Mr. Trump's name be removed from Trump Towers
in Istanbul after he called for a ban on Muslims entering the United States.
More recently, after Mr. Trump came to the defense of Mr. Erdogan - suggesting
that he had the right to crack down harshly on dissidents after a failed coup -
the calls for action against Trump Towers have stopped, fueling worries that Mr.
Trump's policies toward Turkey might be shaped by his commercial interests.

Mr. Trump has acknowledged a conflict of interest in Turkey. "I have a little
conflict of interest because I have a major, major building in Istanbul," he
said during a radio interview last year with Stephen K. Bannon, the Breitbart
News executive who has since been designated his chief White House
strategist."It's a tremendously successful job. It's called Trump Towers - two
towers, instead of one. Not the usual one. It's two."

These tangled ties already have some members of Congress - including at least
one Republican representative - calling on Mr. Trump to provide more information
on his international operations, or perhaps for a congressional inquiry into
them.

"You rightly criticized Hillary for Clinton Foundation," Representative Justin
Amash, Republican of Michigan, said in a Twitter message on Monday. "If you have
contracts w/foreign govts, it's certainly a big deal, too.#DrainTheSwamp"

David J. Kramer, who served as assistant secretary of state for democracy, human
rights and labor during the Bush administration, said Mr. Trump's financial
entanglements could undermine decades of efforts by Democratic and Republican
presidents to promote government transparency - and to use the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act to stop contractors from paying bribes to secure government work
abroad.

"This will make it a little harder to be able to go out and proselytize around
these things," Mr. Kramer said.

Even if Mr. Trump and his family seek no special advantages from foreign
governments, officials overseas may feel compelled to help the Trump family by,
say, accelerating building permits or pushing more business to one of the new
president's hotels or golf courses, according to several former State Department
officials.

"The working assumption on behalf of all these foreign government officials will
be that there is an advantage to doing business with the Trump organization,"
said Michael H. Fuchs, who was until recently deputy assistant secretary at the
bureau of East Asian and Pacific affairs. "They will think it will ingratiate
themselves with the Trump administration. And this will significantly complicate
United States foreign policy and our relationships around the world."

At the same time, Mr. Fuchs said, American diplomats in countries where Mr.
Trump's companies operate, fearful of a rebuke from Washington, may be reluctant
to take steps that could frustrate business partners or political allies.

Another question is, who will be responsible for security at the Trump Towers
around the world, especially in the Middle East, which terrorism experts say may
now become more appealing targets as symbols of American capitalism built in the
name of the president?

What is clear is that there has been very little division, in the weeks since
the election, between Mr. Trump's business interests and his transition effort,
with the president-elect or his family greeting real estate partners from India
and the Philippines in his office and Mr. Trump raising concerns about his golf
course in Scotland with a prominent British politician. Mr. Trump's
daughterIvanka, who is in charge of planningand development of the Trump
Organization's global network of hotels, has joined in conversations with at
least three world leaders - of Turkey, Argentina and Japan - having access that
could help her expand the brand worldwide.

Mr. Trump, in the interview with The Times on Tuesday, acknowledged that his
move to the Oval Office could help enrich his family. He cited his new hotel a
few blocks from the White House, which the Trump Organization has urged
diplomats to consider patronizing when in town to meet the president or his
team.

Federal law does not prevent Mr. Trump from taking actions that could benefit
him and his family financially; the president is exempt from most
conflict-of-interest laws. But the Constitution, through what is called the
emoluments clause, appears to prohibit him from taking payments or gifts from a
foreign government entity, a standard that some legal experts say he may violate
by renting space in Trump Tower in New York to the Bank of China or if he hosts
foreign diplomats in one of his hotels.

"I mean it could be that occupancy at that hotel will be because,
psychologically, occupancy at that hotel will be probably a more valuable asset
now than it was before, O.K.? The brand is certainly a hotter brand than it was
before. I can't help that, but I don't care," Mr. Trump said, adding, "The only
thing that matters to me is running our country."

Robert D. Blackwill, a former National Security Council member who also served
as ambassador to India during the Bush administration, said Mr. Trump still had
a chance to demonstrate that he could manage these challenges once he was sworn
in.

"Let's listen and not prejudge," said Mr. Blackwill, a Republican who was so
critical of Mr. Trump that he endorsed Hillary Clinton. "I want to see what he
does as president."

BRAZIL

Nation Under Pressure, Ventures Under Scrutiny

Donald Trump Jr., the president-elect's oldest son, gushed with triumphalism
when he announced a deal in 2014 to attach the family name to the Trump Hotel
Rio de Janeiro, a lavish 171-room beachfront project featuringcavernous suites
with private plunge pools and a 4,000-square-foot nightclub.

"This is an exciting time to develop our first project in South America and the
perfect location to do so," the younger Mr. Trump (his brother Eric is also
involved in the family business) said at the time.

But just two years later, the venture is embroiled in a criminal investigation
in Brazil, pointing to unfulfilled promises that are casting a pall over both
the Trump business empire and the president-elect in their dealings in Latin
America's largest country.

Anselmo Henrique Cordeiro Lopes, a crusading federal prosecutor in the capital,
Brasília, opened an investigation in the weeks before the American election into
$40 million in investments made by two relatively small Brazilian pension funds
in the Trump Hotel Rio.

The Trump hotel inquiry is looking at why the funds - Serpro, which invests on
behalf of retirees of a state-controlled information technology firm, and
Igeprev, which manages the pensions of public employees of the sparsely
populated Tocantins State - put so much of their capital into the venture, which
is owned by Mr. Trump's Brazilian partner, LSH Barra.

Back in 2014, the hotel might have seemed like a good deal. Brazil was about to
host the World Cup soccer tournament that year, while Rio was preparing to be
the venue for the 2016 Summer Olympics. At the same time, Rio, the nerve center
of Brazil's energy industry, had been bolstered by large offshore oil
discoveries.

But Brazil's economy began to weaken in 2014, undermined by falling commodities
prices, colossal graft scandals and political instability that culminated in the
ouster this year of President Dilma Rousseff, who was replaced by her vice
president, Michel Temer. The result: Brazil is still grappling with its most
severe economic crisis in decades.

The hotel officially opened for the Olympics, but months later remains
unfinished. The top floors of the property, whose design evokes a futuristic
pyramid, are closed. Parts of the hotel still resemble a construction site,
including the second floor, where pleasure-seekers were supposed to mingle in a
nightclub overlooking the Atlantic.

The examination of the project by Mr. Lopes, the federal prosecutor, has already
found a series of "highly suspicious" potential irregularities warranting a
criminal investigation, according to court documents. "It is necessary to verify
if the favoritism shown by the pension funds to LSH and the Trump Organization
was due to the payment of illicit commissions and bribes," Mr. Lopes said in
documents filed in October.

In his filings, Mr. Lopes said the size of the hotel investments relative to the
overall holdings of the small pension funds reflected a highly unusual level of
risk, especially for an unfinished venture that failed to capitalize fully on
the demand for accommodations during the Olympics. Going further, Mr. Lopes
positioned the inquiry within a broader investigation of public pension funds,
pillars of the Brazilian economy that often work in tandem with large
state-controlled banks and energy companies.

Mr. Trump first took interest in a Rio hotel venture in 2012, when Ivanka Trump
was having lunch in Florida with Paulo Figueiredo Filho, a businessman who is
agrandson of João Figueiredo, the last autocrat of Brazil's 21-year military
dictatorship, which ended in 1985. The younger Mr. Figueiredo spearheaded the
hotel venture until recently.

In a statement, Mr. Trump's Brazilian partner, LSH, said it was innocent of any
wrongdoing in connection with the investments by the pension funds, and was
cooperating with the criminal inquiry.

Alan Garten, the Trump Organization's general counsel, said in a statement
issued Friday that the investigation was not targeting Mr. Trump or his company
- given that it does not own the hotel - and "has no knowledge whatsoever
regarding any governmental inquiry."

The investigation of the Trump projects is unfolding at an awkward time for the
Brazilian authorities. Foreign Minister José Serra, Brazil's top diplomat,
publiclydeclared in July that a Trump presidency would be a "nightmare."
Although President Temer has formally congratulated Mr. Trump on his victory in
a letter, he is still among world leaders who have not yet spoken by telephone
with the president-elect.

Even if Brazil's executive branch actively tries to seek warmer relations with
Mr. Trump, officials will face obstacles if they try to quell the investigation.
Brazil differs from some other countries in Latin America where presidents can
easily exert pressure on prosecutors and judges, with the judiciary steadily
growing more independent.

"Brazilian diplomats could try to avoid the problem of referring to the
investigation when dealing with the Trump administration, but that's about all
they can do," said Maurício Santoro, a political scientist at the State
University of Rio de Janeiro. "This is something that could hang over relations
between the two countries for years."

INDIA

Potential Pitfalls in Dual Roles

On the other side of the world, Donald Trump Jr. had other projects he was
pushing.

In 2012, he flew into Mumbai for a brief meeting with the state's chief minister
at that time, hoping to salvage a residential tower representing the Trump
Organization's first planned project there. He was hoping the chief minister,
Prithviraj Chavan, would intervene on his behalf to get the permission needed.

The participants recall the meeting differently: Mr. Trump's partner, Harresh
Mehta of Rohan Lifescapes, said development regulations had changed, leaving the
project in limbo, and they hoped Mr. Chavan could formalize a policy so that the
project could continue. Mr. Chavan said that in a 30-minute meeting, Mr. Trump
and his partner were "requesting a concession that could not be given."

By the end of the meeting, in any case, it was fairly clear that the younger Mr.
Trump's presence had not worked any magic. The project was shelved soon after.

"He thought the name was so big, we would bend backwards to satisfy him, but
that was not the case," Mr. Chavan said.

Kalpesh Mehta, managing partner of Tribeca Developers of Mumbai, the Trump
Organization's development partner in India, confirmed that Donald Trump Jr. had
met with the chief minister, but disputed the claim by Mr. Chavan that he had
sought a special favor.

"The notion that a request was made by Donald Jr. to waive any regulations is
absolutely false," Mr. Mehta said in the statement, which was issued Friday.
"The Trump Organization does not get involved in the regulatory aspects and/or
interacting with government officials related to its projects in India."

This example, analysts here say, points to a potentially serious ethical hazard
for a United States president who is also a real estate mogul in India, with
five projects underway. Mr. Trump was operating much like other developers in
India, who cozy up to politicians - officially or unofficially - to push
projects through the bureaucracy.

Often, they must obtain as many as 60 permissions and building permits from
government officials, including bureaucrats "whose main goal in life is to
attract rent," said Saurabh Mukherjea, the chief executive of institutional
equities at Ambit Capital, a leading investment bank in India.

One of Mr. Trump's projects, Trump Towers Pune, is in fact under investigation
by local authorities after another builder alleged that one of its permits was
fraudulent. Panchshil Realty has disputed that accusation, saying the permit in
question was not required for the construction. The very nature of the country's
real estate business, however, underscores larger concerns about potential
damage to American efforts to discourage corruption in business abroad.

In India, real estate is the main vehicle politicians and businessmen have used
to invest so-called black money, on which taxes have not been paid. In cities,
where land is scarce and extraordinarily valuable, special favors from top
political leaders can lead to windfall profits, and negotiations between
developers and officials are informal affairs.

It is so routine for developers to pay bribes at every step of the approval
process that many bureaucrats have informal rate sheets showing exactly how much
must be paid to each official.

Politicians not only pressure the bureaucracy to approve their pet projects,
sometimes even when they are against local regulations, they also squeeze
government banks to give out favorable loans.

Top officials might "think in some way the U.S. president will help them," and
"can put in a friendly word with the banks" to extend loans for around 8 percent
interest, rather than the characteristic 15 percent, said Vikas S. Kasliwal, the
chief executive officer and vice chairman of Shree Ram Urban Infrastructure.

"If the son goes himself, if the son is willing to go and meet the prime
minister of India, or the urban development minister, that is a very big thing,"
he said. "They will think the president is meeting them."

Another pitfall is that Donald Trump's partners in major projects are, in some
cases, politicians themselves. Most major Indian developers have some sort of
alignment, direct or indirect, with regional political leaders, who can assist
in acquiring the necessary permits.

Mr. Trump's first projects in India, which are expected to increase in number
over the next year, follow this pattern: His partner for Trump Towers Pune is
Panchshil Realty, owned by a family that has a close and longstanding family
relationship with one of the state's most powerful politicians, Sharad Pawar,
the head of the small but influential Nationalist Congress Party. (Mr. Trump was
photographed - in an image distributed on Twitter but since taken down - with
executives from Panchshil Realty on Nov. 15.) Mr. Pawar's daughter, Supriya
Sule, a member of Parliament, holds a 2 percent share in Panchshil's parent
company, she said in an interview.

Mr. Trump's partner in the Trump Tower Mumbai is the Lodha Group, founded by
Mangal Prabhat Lodha, vice president of the Bharatiya Janata Party - currently
the governing party in Parliament - in Maharashtra State. The Lodha Group has
already negotiated with the United States government; it announced a landmark
purchase of a property, known as the Washington House, on tony Altamount Road,
from the American government for 3.75 billion rupees, almost $70 million.

His partner in an office complex in Gurgaon, near New Delhi, is IREO, whose
managing director, Lalit Goyal, is the brother-in-law of a Bharatiya Janata
member of Parliament, Sudhanshu Mittal. Mr. Mittal, in an interview, has denied
having any connection with the real estate company.

Suraj Hegde, the secretary of the All India Congress Committee, a national body
of Indian National Congress party members, said he was troubled by the dual
roles Mr. Trump and his family would play in Indian affairs - particularly given
real estate's important role in India's fast-growing economy, and the clout the
United States has on the world stage.

"Basically this is the globalization of lobbying across countries, which then
tries to establish monopoly over real estate," Mr. Hegde said in an interview.
He added that he was already calling for an independent parliamentary
investigation of such maneuvers, including Mr. Trump's real estate ventures in
India.

"Establishing monopoly at the cost of small players by business connections to
Mr. Trump is very worrisome," he said. "This is not at all healthy for a
democracy."

TURKEY

Mixing Business, Politics and Islam

Mr. Trump's business interests in Turkey are emblematic of two weighty
contradictions for a businessman turned politician.

As a candidate, Mr. Trump railed against moving American jobs overseas and
promised to do something about it. As a businessman, he invested in a
partnership with a furniture company here, making luxury furniture in the firm's
factory in western Anatolia and selling it in the United States and worldwide -
a partnership that apparently remains active.

Mr. Trump the candidate inveighed against Muslims and threatened at least a
temporary ban on their entering the United States. Mr. Trump the businessman has
in recent years had some of his biggest expansions overseas, including in Muslim
countries like Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and even Azerbaijan.

One of the most visible Muslim-world symbols of that contradiction is in the
bustling commercial district of Sisli, on the European side of Istanbul, where a
pair of cantilevered modernist towers, nearly 40 stories high, bear Mr. Trump's
name.

Turkey's leader, Mr. Erdogan, visited Trump Towers Istanbul - one holds luxury
apartments and one office space, with a shopping mall connecting the two - after
their completion in 2012, with Mr. Trump and Ivanka Trump appearing as part of
the celebration the next day.

"We look forward to this being the first of many world-class developments
undertaken together in Istanbul and throughout Turkey," Mr. Trump said in a
statement issued during the visit.

[Video: Donald and Ivanka Trump visited Istanbul in 2012 after the completion of
Trump Towers Istanbul.  Watch on YouTube.]

Beyond real estate, there is the Trump Organization's 2013 partnership with
Dorya International, a luxury furniture maker with a factory in Manisa Province,
near the city of Izmir, to build pieces sold under the Trump Home Collection.

But the presidential campaign demonstrated how the goals of his business and
politics ventures can come into direct conflict, particularly once Mr. Trump in
December proposed barring Muslims from entering the United States, implying that
all Muslims might pose a terrorist threat.

"We regret and condemn Trump's discriminatory remarks," Bulent Kural, the
manager of the Trump Towers Mall, wrote in an email to a reporter at the time,
as he announced that the mall was considering removing Mr. Trump's name. "Such
statements bear no value and are products of a mind that does not understand
Islam, a peace religion, at all. Our reaction has been directly expressed to the
Trump family. We are reviewing the legal dimension of our relation with the
Trump brand."

Mr. Erdogan weighed in on the issue, too, saying, "The ones who put that brand
on their building should immediately remove it."

Mr. Trump's next move helped re-establish his standing. After a failed coup in
Turkey in July, he defended Mr. Erdogan's crackdown on dissidents, saying in an
interview with The Times that the United States has to "fix our own mess" before
trying to alter the behavior of other nations.

"I don't think we have a right to lecture," Mr. Trump said in the
interview."Look at what is happening in our country," he added, referring to
violence in the United States. "How are we going to lecture when people are
shooting policemen in cold blood?"

In between his two remarks - one infuriating the president of Turkey, the other
comforting him - the calls for the renaming of the Trump Towers Mall ended. But
much more is at stake in relations between the United States and Turkey than a
shopping mall and two skyscrapers.

Turkey is a key player in United States efforts to combat the Islamic State in
the Middle East, and sits next door to Syria as the United States has armed
rebel groups in an attempt to remove Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, from
power.

The recent postelection telephone call between Mr. Trump and Mr. Erdogan
suggests that business and political roles will continue to be mixed.

According to a Turkish journalist, Amberin Zaman, writing in the independent
online news outlet Diken, Mr. Trump told the Turkish leader that he and his
daughter - who participated in the call - admired both Mr. Erdogan and Mehmet
Ali Yalcindag, Mr. Trump's business associate in the towers, whom he called "a
close friend."

Ms. Zaman, a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, said no
government officials had disputed her account of the conversation. "I'm of the
opinion they were quite happy for this to be published," she said. A spokeswoman
for Mr. Trump declined to comment about the call.

Jennifer Harris, who served on the staff of the National Intelligence Council
and on the State Department's policy planning staff, said the twin hats that Mr.
Trump and his family would be wearing in Turkey would almost certainly
complicate the jobs of American diplomats there.

"It makes me wonder if the Trump administration will use the power of the state
to help political or business allies and hurt political adversaries and business
rivals," she said.

THE PHILIPPINES

What Stance Toward Duterte?

President Duterte's antidrug campaign has led to the summary deaths of thousands
of suspected criminals at the hands of police and vigilantes since he took
office June 30. The killing has been condemned by human rights activists - and
the Obama administration.

In August, Elizabeth Trudeau, a State Department spokeswoman, said the United
States was "very deeply concerned" about reports of "extrajudicial killings by
or at the behest of government authorities of individuals who are suspected to
have been in drug activity in the Philippines." She added, "We have also made
our concerns known."

The question now, former State Department officials say, is just what kind of a
stand the Trump administration will take as Mr. Trump and his family balance
their personal and financial ties with foreign policy demands.

Mr. Antonio first met Mr. Trump casually in the 1990s and has been his business
partner in the Philippines for five years. President Duterte named him special
envoy to the United States as the Philippines angrily pushed back at President
Obama for criticizing his deadly campaign. At the time of the appointment, Mrs.
Clinton was leading in the polls in the United States presidential election.

Mr. Duterte has made clear that he does not appreciate American meddling in his
country's domestic affairs.

"I am a president of a sovereign state, and we have long ceased to be a colony,"
Mr. Duterte told reporters in early September, before a scheduled meeting in
Laos with Mr. Obama that never took place. "I do not have any master except the
Filipino people, nobody but nobody."

Mr. Duterte handpicked Mr. Antonio as his intermediary with the United States,
said his press secretary, Ernesto Abella, because of his business success, his
previous experience as a special envoy to China and the Philippine president's
"deep intuition about people." The appointment will be advantageous for the
Philippines, Mr. Abella added, because Mr. Trump already knows Mr. Antonio.

Even before Mr. Trump has been sworn in, Mr. Antonio flew to New York and
visited Trump Tower, where he met with Mr. Trump's children, who are executives
at the Trump Organization - which oversees the president-elect's real estate
ventures. This was a business trip, not a diplomatic one, Robbie Antonio, Mr.
Antonio's son and the managing director of the family business, said in an
interview.

The two families are considering new ventures as they finish work on the Trump
Tower in Makati City, a financial center within metropolitan Manila that is one
of the country's wealthiest enclaves and home to many of the nation's elite.

The $150 million tower - one of the tallest in the Philippines - is on the
gritty side of Makati about two blocks from Manila's most notorious red-light
district, where it is common to see prostitutes soliciting business and people
sleeping on sidewalks. Completion, originally scheduled for this year, is now
expected in 2017. About 240 of the 260 units have been sold, said Kristina
Garcia, the director for investor relations.

"We are bringing Trump to the Philippines because we believe that Trump
exemplifies the best quality of real estate anywhere in the world," Mr. Antonio
said in a 2011 video promoting the project - in which Mr. Antonio is identified
as "ambassador" and Mr. Trump also appears. "It also exemplifies luxury and it
exemplifies exclusivity."

In the interview at the celebration in Manila on Thursday evening, Robbie
Antonio said he had little doubt of his father's priorities: He will put the
Philippines' interests above those of his company. "It is for the good of the
country now," he said.

But Mr. Fuchs, who helped oversee United States relations with the Philippines
as the deputy assistant secretary of state until early this year, said he was
deeply troubled by Mr. Trump's overlapping priorities, particularly given the
long list of globally significant issues in play with the Philippines. These
include planned joint military exercises in the South China Sea, the fight
against militant Islamic groups based in the country's southern islands, and the
human rights abuses taking place.

"What we already have is a blurring of the lines between official and business
activities," Mr. Fuchs said. "The biggest gray area may not be a President Trump
himself advocating for favors for the Trump Organization. It's the diplomats and
career officers who will feel the need to perhaps not do things that will harm
the Trump Organization's interests. It is seriously disturbing."

IRELAND and SCOTLAND

Over a Tiny Snail, Big Concerns

The vertigo angustior snail is only two millimeters long. But it punches above
its weight.

The endangered little snail has helped stall Mr. Trump's plans to build a sea
wall to protect the coastline along his Trump International Golf Links course on
the west coast of Ireland, in County Clare.

Environmentalists, as well as surfers, list a host of concerns about the
proposed wall, particularly its potential impact on sand dunes. Along with the
snails, a patch of the dunes near the course is protected by European Union
rules. But Mr. Trump's organization has said the golf resort development might
be dead in the water without the sea wall, and many locals welcome the business
and the jobs it brings.

The battle is likely to be decided next year in front of a national planning
board, in the weeks or months after Mr. Trump is inaugurated on Jan. 20, several
people said.

The planning board was overhauled in the 1980s to insulate it from political
meddling, and it now has the confidence of environmentalists. But there is
little precedent for the Trump situation, which could involve a public hearing.

"They can be long, they can be lively, and a lot of things could be aired," said
Sean O'Leary, the executive director of the Irish Planning Institute, which
represents the majority of the country's professional planners.

He noted that the national planning board had considered a development proposed
by a politician before, but that was a holiday home that the Irish president
wanted to build.

"The scale is slightly different," he said.

Local officials have said the Trump Organization needs to resubmit its
application by the end of the year. In a statement, the Trump Organization said
it was "considering all potential coastal protection options at present" and
would be in contact with the local authority before Christmas. The snail, the
statement said, "is thriving on the site."

"Its only material threat is that presented by coastal erosion," it added.

[Video: A video by the Trump Organization advertising its golf course in
Scotland.  Watch on YouTube.]

Certainly, Mr. Trump's golf courses in Scotland and Ireland have remained at the
fore in the president-elect's mind, even in recent days. Shortly after his
election, he urged a group of "Brexit" campaignersled by Nigel Farage, the head
of the U.K. Independence Party, to fight against wind farms in Britain. Wind
farms have been a favorite target of Mr. Trump's in both Britain and Ireland,
where he has railed against proposed installations as a potential blight on the
views from his resorts.

After a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump initially denied that the matter had been
raised with Mr. Farage's group, Mr. Trump conceded during his interview with The
Times this past week that "I might have brought it up."

Tony Lowes, an activist who runs a group called Friends of the Irish
Environment, said Mr. Trump had once called him because Mr. Lowes's group also
happened to oppose a proposed wind farm near Mr. Trump's Irish course on
environmental grounds.

"He certainly hates wind farms, that's for sure," Mr. Lowes said about the call.

His group decided against working with Mr. Trump, and is now a leading opponent
of his planned sea wall.

"The dune system will not be able to develop naturally," Mr. Lowes said. "It
will be starved of the sand it needs to develop and evolve and it will die." He
added, "The whole system there is alive and mobile and moving, and the wall is
intended to stop that."

Mr. Trump's representatives have advanced a number of rationales for the sea
wall, with the most straightforward being that they simply want to buffer the
land from a continuing erosion problem. The proposal has previouslyattracted
attention because an environmental-impact statement submitted by Mr. Trump's
team highlighted the risks of climate change and its influence on "coastal
erosion rates." That was a noteworthy claim, since Mr. Trump has called global
warming a hoax perpetrated "by and for the Chinese."

The Irish government has zealously courted Mr. Trump. When he visited the course
in 2014, he was greeted on the airport tarmac in Shannon with a red carpet, a
harpist, a violinist and a singer whose voice cut through the runway clamor.

Malachy Clerkin of The Irish Times called it "a preposterous welcome" and "the
worst kind of forelock-tugging."

Many locals, however, support Mr. Trump's development. Hugh McNally, the owner
ofMorrissey's Bar in Doonbeg Village, about two miles from the course, said the
issue had been "sensationalized by the media" because of the Trump connection.

"I'll give you an example," he said. Roche, the Swiss pharmaceutical company,
announced last year that it wouldclose a plant in nearby Clarecastle, causing
the loss of more than 200 jobs. "If someone told them you'd save those jobs by
building any wall, everyone would do it," he said. "The only reason people are
objecting here is because of Trump."

THE WORLD

A Transition and a Business Plan

Mr. Trump's family appears to have been preparing for the transition to the Oval
Office and ways to capitalize on it both in the United States and around the
globe.

In April, even before Mr. Trump had secured the Republican nomination, his
business moved to trademark the nameAmerican Idea for use in branding hotels,
spas and concierge services, according to the United States Patent and Trademark
Office. It was one of more than two dozen trademark applications that Mr. Trump
and members of his family filed in the United States and around the world while
he was running for president.

The applications offer a glimpse of where the Trumps may intend to focus their
business endeavors. Last month, representatives of the Trump Organization in
Indonesia, where Mr. Trump has been pursuing two hotel deals, filed trademark
registrations for use of the Trump name in connection with hotel management.
Similar filings have been made in Mexico, Canada and the European Union.

Ivanka Trump has filed at least 25 trademark registrations for her brand of
clothing, cosmetics and jewelry in the United States, Canada, the European Union
and Mexico since the beginning of the year, most recently in October. Mr.
Trump's wife, Melania, filed an American trademark application for a line of
jewelry in August.

As he prepares for the presidency, Mr. Trump has made at least one concession so
far, he said in the interview with The Times this past week.

"In theory, I can be president of the United States and run my business 100
percent, sign checks on my business," Mr. Trump said, before later adding, "but
I am phasing that out now, and handing that to Eric Trump and Don Trump and
Ivanka Trump for the most part, and some of my executives, so that's happening
right now."

Richard C. Paddock reported from Manila, Eric Lipton from Washington, Ellen
Barry from New Delhi, Rod Nordland from Istanbul, Danny Hakim from London and
Simon Romero from Rio de Janeiro. Reporting was contributed by Mike McIntire
from New York, Safak Timur from Istanbul, Sinead O'Shea from Ireland and
Suhasini Raj from New Delhi. Karen Yourish and Gregor Aisch contributed
research.

PHOTOS: Trump Tower Mumbai, rising last week. Donald J. Trump's partner in the
venture has ties to India's governing party. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASMITA PARELKAR FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); BRAZIL: The Trump Hotel Rio de Janeiro, a branding
venture, is officially open but unfinished and figures in a government
investigation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIANNE MILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); TURKEY:
Donald J. Trump, Ivanka Trump and Mehmet Ali Yalcindag, one of Mr. Trump's
business associates in Turkey, at the Trump Towers Istanbul. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE
TRUMP ORGANIZATION, VIA PR NEWSWIRE; MONIQUE JAQUES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A24); INDIA: Trump Tower Mumbai is one of five Trump Organization projects in a
country where connections between developers and officials are common.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASMITA PARELKAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); PHILIPPINES: Donald
Trump Jr., left, and Eric Trump in 2012 with Jose E. B. Antonio, the Trumps'
partner in Trump Tower in the Makati City district of Manila. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
PAT ROQUE/ASSOCIATED PRESS; HANNAH REYES MORALES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25);
IRELAND: Bales of grass prevent erosion near the Trump International Golf Links
in County Clare, where the Trump Organization's plan to build a sea wall has
raised environmental concerns. A red carpet was out for Donald J. Trump when he
arrived for a visit in 2014. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAULO NUNES DOS SANTOS FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES; NIALL CARSON/PA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A26)
 MAP: The Trump Brand Around the World: Donald J. Trump has business interests
in at least 20 countries, in addition to extensive hotel and real estate
holdings in the United States, according to an analysis of his financial
disclosure report. Each dot represents a city where he has at least one
enterprise. (A25)

Related Articles


     ·    Donald Trump's Business Dealings Test a Constitutional Limit
     ·    Thin Line Splits Donald Trump's Politics and Businesses
     ·    Donald Trump Meeting Suggests He Is Keeping Up His Business Ties
     ·    Indian Business Partners Hope to Exploit Their Ties to Donald Trump


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             720 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

What Unions Got Wrong About Trump;
News Analysis

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 1381 words



HIGHLIGHT: Working-class whites delivered three Rust Belt states to the
president-elect.


For the nation's labor unions, the day after Election Day was going to be a
victory lap. They planned to boast to the world that their vaunted
get-out-the-vote operation had delivered the White House to Hillary Clinton by
winning three crucial Rust Belt states for her: Michigan, Pennsylvania and
Wisconsin. But the unions, to their shock and horror, failed to deliver those
states - or victory - to Mrs. Clinton.

Now union leaders face a huge, embarrassing question: Why, after unions spent
more than $100 million to defeat Donald J. Trump, did Mrs. Clinton win only
narrowly among voters from union households, 51 percent to 43 percent, according
to exit polls? In a further indication that union leaders were not on the same
wavelength as the working-class whites who tipped the election to Mr. Trump,
Mrs. Clinton lost among union households in Ohio, 49 percent to 44 percent.

"We underestimated the amount of anger and frustration among working people and
especially white workers, both male and female, about their economic status,"
said Lee Saunders, president of the American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees and chairman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s political committee.

Like many inside the Washington Beltway, union leaders generally thought things
weren't so bad - the unemployment rate has dropped to 4.9 percent, and median
household income jumped by a record 5.2 percent last year. But many union
officials didn't adequately hear the anger and pain felt by many working-class
whites: that they were stuck economically, that Washington wasn't addressing
their problems, like disappearing factories and good jobs.

One official with the United Steelworkers said his Pittsburgh-based union had
urged members to back Mrs. Clinton, but many preferred Mr. Trump, largely
because of his tough talk on trade with Mexico and China. Many lapped up his
promises to bring back manufacturing jobs, hinting at a return (an improbable
one) to the 1950s and '60s, when manufacturing boomed and unions were mighty.
(Mr. Trump's G.O.P. allies are spoiling, however, to further hobble labor
unions, which are far weaker than in the '60s.)

Many steelworkers, the official explained, disliked Mrs. Clinton because of her
ties to Wall Street, because her husband had championed Nafta and because she
had supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership before coming out against the trade
pact during the campaign.

Leo Gerard, the steelworkers' president, sent a letter to his union's 600,000
members, acknowledging that its ranks "were divided this election season." While
the economy has grown, he wrote, "the growth has failed to stimulate the
manufacturing sector because of our nation's failed trade policies." Maintaining
that Mr. Trump had appropriated his union's message, he wrote, "Trump used our
own words to speak to these problems, and to the real suffering, fears and
anxieties that so many feel."

Most labor leaders viewed Mr. Trump far more harshly than his union backers did;
they often attacked him as a con artist and a threat to unions and workers. Mrs.
Clinton would have prevailed had she adopted a more muscular pro-worker message,
union leaders lament, more like Bernie Sanders's message attacking trade deals
and inequality.

With Mr. Trump's victory and with Republicans now controlling both houses of
Congress, unions are expecting a series of stinging blows. Even as Mr. Trump
talks of spending $1 trillion to improve infrastructure, many Republicans are
eager to repeal an 85-year-old law requiring that contractors pay union-level
wages on federal projects. Congressional Republicans are likely to take up
nationwide "right-to-work" legislation, which would sap union treasuries by
barring any requirement that workers pay union dues or fees. And even if Senate
Democrats manage to block such a law, Republican gains in Kentucky and Missouri
mean those states are likely to enact their own right-to-work laws.

Mr. Trump will most likely scrap most of Mr. Obama's executive orders on labor,
including ones requiring federal contractors to disclose labor law violations,
provide paid sick leave and pay a $10.10 minimum wage. He may also erase a
regulation that lets four million additional workers qualify for overtime pay.
(Last Tuesday, a federal judge in Texas suspended that regulation.) And the
National Labor Relations Board under Mr. Trump will no doubt overturn numerous
union-friendly moves by the Obama board, among them ones speeding up
unionization elections and giving graduate research and teaching assistants at
private universities the right to unionize.

Whoever Mr. Trump names to the Supreme Court to fill Antonin Scalia's seat will
help to re-establish a conservative majority, boding ill for labor. In a closely
watched case, a California public-school teacher asked the court to rule that
any requirement that she pay union fees violated her First Amendment freedom of
speech. Last March, the court deadlocked, 4-4, in that case, but with a Trump
appointee the court will probably rule that government employees can't be
required to pay any fees to support the union that represents them. That would
be a sharp blow to the nation's public-employee unions and their treasuries.

Just 11.1 percent of American workers belong to unions, half the level when
Ronald Reagan became president and down from 35 percent in the 1950s. However,
businesses and Republicans remain wary of labor's power. "Unions are a small
minority of the work force, but they still have a strong war chest that can be
used for political purposes," said Randel K. Johnson, a senior vice president at
the United States Chamber of Commerce.

Yet with each new step weakening unions, organized labor will become less of
what John Kenneth Galbraith called a "countervailing power" to balance corporate
might. Labor won't be able to put up as big a fight to raise the minimum wage or
prevent cuts in Medicare and tax cuts for the rich.

Jacob S. Hacker, a political-science professor at Yale, said the shrunken
movement, which represents just 6.7 percent of private-sector workers, faces "an
existential crisis."

"There's an irony here," he said. "Unions are probably the most consistent voice
for the broad middle class of any organization today, yet the voice of the
middle class was seen as an important part of Donald Trump's victory. The
further decline of labor is going to hurt many members of the middle class."

Unions are brainstorming how to weather a Trump presidency. Some will no doubt
work with Mr. Trump on rebuilding infrastructure and overhauling trade
agreements, while other unions will do battle with him - on his plans to repeal
Obamacare, deport millions of immigrants and much more.

Mary Kay Henry, president of the Service Employees International Union, said
that with progressive groups on the defensive, unions would team up increasingly
with embattled women's, environmental and immigrant groups. She said unions
needed to continue fighting, no matter who was president. "Our strong belief is
collective action is the way for us to win wage increases and create good jobs,"
she said.

With the climate in Washington becoming more hostile to unions, worker advocates
might focus on more winnable local battles, having just won statewide
referendums to raise the minimum wage to $12 in Arizona, Colorado and Maine and
$13.50 in Washington. And with traditional unions in the Republican line of
fire, there will be newfangled efforts to lift wages and working conditions,
like a nonunion drivers guild for thousands of Uber drivers in New York. Another
innovative effort, the Fight for 15, is planning protests in 340 citieson
Tuesday to try to win a $15 wage for everyone from McDonald's workers to airport
baggage handlers.

As unions grow weaker, many workers will inevitably continue to search for new
ways to band together to make their voices heard.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Steven Greenhouse, a former labor and workplace reporter for The New York Times,
is the author of "The Big Squeeze: Tough Times for the American Worker."

PHOTO: Donald J. Trump at a campaign event in Canton, Ohio, in September. He
carried the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             721 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Anger Rooms: A Smashing New Way to Relieve Stress;
Prototype

BYLINE: CLAIRE MARTIN

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1115 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Anger Room in Dallas and other businesses that let people break
things to release their rage have gained customers, especially during the
election season.


When she was a teenager on the South Side of Chicago in the late 1990s, Donna
Alexander fantasized about setting up a space where stressed-out people could
relieve their tension in a safe, nonviolent way - by smashing mannequins,
televisions, furniture and other objects. She was confident in her idea, but she
wasn't sure how to turn it into a business.

Finally, in the fall of 2008, and by then living in Dallas, Ms. Alexander began
an experiment. She invited current and past co-workers to her garage to
pulverize items she had collected from the curbs in her neighborhood. "I would
play music on my laptop and just let them have at it," she says. She charged $5.
Soon, word of the stress-relief sessions spread throughout Dallas.

"I started getting strangers at my door asking if my house was the place to
break stuff," Ms. Alexander said. "When that happened, I knew I had a business."

Over the next few years while she looked for a suitable location for the
company, Ms. Alexander accrued a four-month waiting list. In December 2011, she
quit her job as a marketing manager for a steakhouse to officially start the
Anger Room in a 1,000-square-foot space in downtown Dallas.

The Anger Room charges $25 for five minutes of crushing printers, alarm clocks,
glass cups, vases and the like. Prices rise to about $500 for custom room
setups. The most expensive setup so far has been a faux retail store, replete
with racks of clothing.

Several other anger rooms have popped up around the world, including in Houston,
Toronto, Niagara Falls and Australia.

The American presidential election increased business at some anger rooms.
Stressed-out voters traveled all the way to Toronto from New York before and
after the election, says Steve Shew, co-founder of the Rage Room there.
Customers wrote the name of the candidate they were frustrated with on a plate
and smashed it.

At the Anger Room in Dallas, mannequins of Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton were
taking beatings before the election. Customers demolished two Clinton
mannequins, requiring replacements. But Trump attracted even more ire. "We've
gone through at least three of the male mannequins that we have to dress up as
Donald Trump," Ms. Alexander says.

Sessions in an anger room are meant to be therapeutic. But mental health
professionals question the efficacy of rampaging in a faux cubicle or whacking
airborne glasses.

"Although it's appealing to think that expressing anger can reduce stress, there
is not much evidence of that," says George M. Slavich, a clinical psychologist
and director of the Laboratory for Stress Assessment and Research at the
University of California, Los Angeles. "On the contrary, the types of
physiological and immune responses that occur during anger can actually be
harmful for health."

Mr. Slavich recommends stress-reduction techniques that can be incorporated into
daily life, such as mindfulness-based stress reduction, meditation and cognitive
behavior therapy.

Nevertheless, customers of the Anger Room have paid to re-enact a scene from the
movie "Office Space," in which the main characters, a trio of disgruntled
computer programmers, beat a printer with a baseball bat. The company can also
customize the workplace experience, recreating a customer's own office.

"You have a desk with a computer and phone, chair and a mannequin dressed up in
a suit, uniform or whatever relates to their real-life issue," Ms. Alexander
says.

Customers are provided with protective equipment that includes a helmet,
goggles, boots and gloves. And they can pick out a music soundtrack - including
classical, R&B, grunge and heavy metal - and an array of objects to swing.

"Some of our typical options are baseball bats, golf clubs, two-by-fours," Ms.
Alexander says. "We get things like metal pipes, mannequin arms and legs,
skillets, legs from tables. Sledgehammers, crowbars and things like that."
Off-limits are sharp objects and those that use ammunition.

The Anger Room accepts donations for its rooms from residents and businesses in
the Dallas-Fort Worth area. Its four employees also go out on bulk trash pickup
days looking for crushable items. The employees build the rooms, filling them
with the breakables, and do the postwreckage cleanup.

Customers have included executives at large corporations, including Hilton and
Microsoft, Ms. Alexander says. In the first year, the Anger Room's revenue was
$170,000. Since then, she has received about 2,500 inquiries from other aspiring
anger-room entrepreneurs, and she is in the process of drafting a licensing
agreement for franchisees.

At the Rage Room in Toronto, 45 minutes of destruction costs $19.99 and includes
video downloads of the sessions. Customers bring their own music.

The Rage Room's "date night package" is its most popular offering, Mr. Shew
says. And a favorite activity for couples is for one person to throw a cup in
the air for their date to smash.

"People really love that," Mr. Shew says. "I guess because it has a bit of a
teamwork element to it."

The Rage Room grew out of a business called Battle Sports, a staging ground for
a sport known as archery dodge ball. After the expansion, "there was a huge,
huge uptick in website traffic," Mr. Shew said. Specifically, web visits have
jumped to 1,200 from about 400 a day. Revenue has also increased, and the
company has fielded many inquiries from prospective Rage Room franchisees. So
far, it has granted licenses to a handful of them for $1,000.

Start-up costs for such a business are modest, Mr. Shew says. "All you're doing
is just setting up the room, reinforcing the walls, giving them a bat and
crowbar, getting some smashing items and they just go in there," he says. Add to
that providing protective gear, obtaining insurance and finding a suitable spot
for the business.

In the first several years, Ms. Alexander struggled to find a permanent space.
The company's first location was near Texas Instruments, which became a source
of breakables. But after the first year, the business outgrew the space. Over
the next four years, it moved three times.

Mr. Shew concurs that finding an appropriate space for an anger room is a
challenge. Retail districts are not well suited to it, he says. "We find that
most people have an easier time with more of the industrial warehouse areas."

Another early obstacle for both the Anger Room and the Rage Room was obtaining
insurance. Since it's a new concept, Ms. Alexander says her insurer "literally
had to create a category for my business."

PHOTOS: Diane Casanova, top, during a recent session at the Anger Room in
Dallas. Above, some tools of destruction. Below, the aftermath of a session.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY COOPER NEILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             722 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Why I Left White Nationalism;
Opinion

BYLINE: R. DEREK BLACK

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 1428 words



HIGHLIGHT: I grew up in a family that embraced extreme views. I've moved on. The
country can, too.


I could easily have spent the night of Nov. 8 elated, surrounded by friends and
family, thinking: "We did it. We rejected a multicultural and globalist society.
We defied the elites, rejected political correctness, and made a statement
millions of Americans have wanted to shout for decades."

I'd be planning with other white nationalists what comes next, and assessing
just how much influence our ideology would have on this administration. That's
who I was a few years ago.

Things look very different for me now. I am far away from the community that I
grew up in, and that I once hoped could lead our country to a moment like this.

I was born into a prominent white nationalist family - David Duke is my
godfather, and my dad started Stormfront, the first major white nationalist
website - and I was once considered the bright future of the movement.

In 2008, at age 19, I ran for and won a Palm Beach County Republican committee
seat a few months before Barack Obama was elected president. I received national
media attention and for a while couldn't go out without being congratulated for
"telling them what's what."

I grew up in West Palm Beach across the water from Donald J. Trump's Mar-a-Lago
estate, and he was always a loud presence in the neighborhood. I would drive a
pickup truck with a Confederate flag sticker past his driveway each morning on
my way to the beach and my family would walk out into the front yard to watch
his fireworks on New Year's Eve.

It surprises me now how often Mr. Trump and my 19-year-old self would have
agreed on our platforms: tariffs to bring back factory jobs, increased policing
of black communities, deporting illegal workers and the belief that American
culture was threatened. I looked at my white friends and family who felt
dispossessed, at the untapped political support for anyone - even a kid like me
- who wasn't afraid to talk about threats to our people from outsiders, and I
knew not only that white nationalism was right, but that it could win.

Several years ago, I began attending a liberal college where my presence
prompted huge controversy. Through many talks with devoted and diverse people
there - people who chose to invite me into their dorms and conversations rather
than ostracize me - I began to realize the damage I had done. Ever since, I have
been trying to make up for it.

For a while after I left the white nationalist movement, I thought my upbringing
made me exaggerate the likelihood of a larger political reaction to demographic
change. Then Mr. Trump gave his Mexican "rapists" speech and I spent the rest of
the election wondering how much my movement had set the stage for his. Now I see
the anger I was raised with rocking the nation.

People have approached me looking for a way to change the minds of Trump voters,
but I can't offer any magic technique. That kind of persuasion happens in
person-to-person interactions and it requires a lot of honest listening on both
sides. For me, the conversations that led me to change my views started because
I couldn't understand why anyone would fear me. I thought I was only doing what
was right and defending those I loved.

I think the "Hamilton" cast modeled well one way to make that same connection
when they appealed to Vice President-elect Mike Pence from the stage: "We, sir -
we - are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new
administration will not protect us." Afterward, the actor Brandon Victor Dixon
explained, "I hope he thinks of us every time he has to deal with an issue or
talk about a bill or present anything." I'm sure Mr. Pence believes his policies
are just. But now he has heard from individuals who are worried about those
policies. That might open him to new conversations.

I never would have begun my own conversations without first experiencing clear
and passionate outrage to what I believed from those I interacted with. Now is
the time for me to pass on that outrage by clearly and unremittingly denouncing
the people who used a wave of white anger to take the White House.

Mr. Trump's comments during the campaign echoed how I also tapped into
less-than-explicit white nationalist ideology to reach relatively moderate white
Americans. I went door-to-door in 2008 talking about how Hispanic immigration
was overwhelming "American" culture, how black neighborhoods were hotbeds of
crime, and how P.C. culture didn't let us talk about any of it. I won that small
election with 60 percent of the vote.

A substantial portion of the American public has made clear that it feels
betrayed by the establishment, and so it elected a president who denounces all
Muslims as potential conspirators in terrorism; who sees black communities as
crime-ridden; who taps into white American mistrust of foreigners, particularly
of Hispanics; and who promises the harshest form of immigration control. If we
thought Mr. Trump himself might backtrack on some of this, we are now watching
him fill a cabinet with people able to make that campaign rhetoric into real
policy.

Much has been made of the incoherence of Mr. Trump's proposals, but what really
matters is who does - and doesn't - need to fear them. None of the ideas that
Mr. Trump has put forward would endanger me, and I once enthusiastically
advocated for most of what he says. No proposal to put more cops in black
neighborhoods to stop and frisk residents would cause me to be harassed. A ban
on Muslim immigration doesn't implicate all people who look like me in
terrorism. Overturning Roe v. Wade will not force me to make a dangerous choice
about my health, nor will a man who personifies sexual assault without penalty
make me any less safe. When the most powerful demographic in the United States
came together to assert that making America great again meant asserting their
supremacy, they were asserting my supremacy.

The wave of violence and vile language that has risen since the election is only
one immediate piece of evidence that this campaign's reckless assertion of white
identity comes at a huge cost. More and more people are being forced to
recognize now what I learned early: Our country is susceptible to some of our
worst instincts when the message is packaged correctly.

No checks and balances can redeem what we've unleashed. The reality is that half
of the voters chose white supremacy, though saying that makes me a hypocrite. I
was a much more extreme partisan than a vast majority of Trump voters and I
never would have recognized that label.

The motivations that led to this choice are more complex. I have no doubt many
of his supporters voted thinking he'd soften his rhetoric, that his words didn't
really matter. The words were not disqualifying for them because they don't see,
or refuse to see, what the message of hate will reap.

Most of Mr. Trump's supporters did not intend to attack our most vulnerable
citizens. But with him in office we have a duty to protect those who are
threatened by this administration and to win over those who don't recognize the
impact of their vote. Even those on the furthest extreme of the white
nationalist spectrum don't recognize themselves doing harm - I know that because
it was easy for me, too, to deny it.

That is the opening for those of us who disagree with Mr. Trump. It's now our
job to argue constantly that what voters did in elevating this man to the White
House constitutes the greatest assault on our own people in a generation, and to
offer another option.

There are millions of Americans who don't understand why anyone might worry
about the effects of this election. They see it as "feelings" versus their own
real concerns. Those of us on the other side need to be clear that Mr. Trump's
callous disregard for people outside his demographic is intolerable, and will be
destructive to the entire nation.

If I had not changed, I would have been jubilant after this election and more
certain than ever that anxiety from a shrinking white majority would result in
the election of more people who tap into this simple narrative. Now I'm
convinced this doesn't have to be our destiny.

Mr. Trump's victory must make all Americans acknowledge that the choice of
embracing or rejecting multiculturalism is not abstract. I know this better than
most, because I've followed both paths. It is the choice of embracing or
rejecting our own people.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

R. Derek Black is a graduate student in history, focusing on the early Middle
Ages.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASU HU) (SR6-SR7)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             723 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Hillary Clinton's Team to Join Wisconsin Recount Pushed by Jill Stein

BYLINE: DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1037 words



HIGHLIGHT: The campaign also said it would participate in potential recounts in
Pennsylvania and Michigan, though it saw no "actionable evidence" of vote
hacking.


WASHINGTON - Nearly three weeks after Election Day, Hillary Clinton's campaign
said on Saturday that it would participate in a recount process in Wisconsin
incited by a third-party candidate and would join any potential recounts in two
other closely contested states, Pennsylvania and Michigan.

The Clinton campaign held out little hope of success in any of the three states,
and said it had seen no "actionable evidence" of vote hacking that might taint
the results or otherwise provide new grounds for challenging Donald J. Trump's
victory. But it suggested it was going along with the recount effort to assure
supporters that it was doing everything possible to verify that hacking by
Russia or other irregularities had not affected the results.

In a post on Medium, Marc Elias, the Clinton team's general counsel, said the
campaign would take part in the Wisconsin recount being set off by Jill Stein,
the Green Party candidate, and would also participate if Ms. Stein made good on
her plans to seek recounts in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Mrs. Clinton lost those
three states by a total of little more than 100,000 votes, sealing her Electoral
College defeat by Mr. Trump.

The Clinton campaign had assailed Mr. Trump during the election for refusing to
say he would abide by the results if he lost. On Saturday, Mr. Trump responded
to the campaign's decision to join the recount with a statement calling the
effort "ridiculous" and "a scam by the Green Party."

He suggested that most of the money raised would not be spent on the recount.
"The results of this election should be respected instead of being challenged
and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is doing," Mr. Trump said.

In Wisconsin, Mr. Trump leads by 22,177 votes. In Michigan, he has a lead of
10,704 votes, and in Pennsylvania, his advantage is 70,638 votes.

Mr. Elias suggested in his essay that the Clinton campaign was joining the
recount effort with little expectation that it would change the result. But many
of the campaign's supporters, picking up on its frequent complaints of Russian
interference in the election, have enthusiastically backed Ms. Stein's efforts,
putting pressure on the Clinton team to show that it is exploring all options.

Mr. Elias used his essay to describe an intensive behind-the-scenes effort by
the campaign to look for signs of Russian hacking activity or other
irregularities in the vote count.

Ms. Stein filed for a recount in Wisconsin on Friday afternoon, about an hour
before the deadline. She has raised more than $5 million for the effort, which
will now turn to Michigan and Pennsylvania, where there are deadlines in the
coming week.

In his post, Mr. Elias sounded less enthusiastic than the recount's many
supporters. "Because we had not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or
outside attempts to alter the voting technology," he wrote, "we had not planned
to exercise this option ourselves."

He added, "Now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to
participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to
all sides."

If Ms. Stein pursues additional recounts, "we will take the same approach in
those states as well," he wrote. But he noted that the "number of votes
separating Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in the closest of these states -
Michigan - well exceeds the largest margin ever overcome in a recount."

The Clinton campaign will not contribute financially to the effort, which has
been funded by small contributions. But it will pay to have its own lawyers
present at the recount, campaign officials said.

The Obama administration issued a statement to The New York Times on Friday in
response to questions about intelligence findings related to Russian
interference in the election. In the statement, it said it had concluded that
the election was free of interference.

The administration issued a second statement on Saturday saying that "the
federal government did not observe any increased level of malicious
cyberactivity aimed at disrupting our electoral process on Election Day."

Mrs. Clinton conceded the race to Mr. Trump early on Nov. 9, when it became
clear that he would have a large margin of victory in the Electoral College. But
as her lead in the popular vote has grown - it now exceeds two million votes -
her base has increasingly pressured her to challenge the results.

That has been fueled in part by how aggressively the Clinton campaign spread the
word of Russian involvement in the theft of emails from the Democratic National
Committee and from the personal account of John D. Podesta, the campaign's
chairman. The campaign also charged that the Russians were behind fake news
about Mrs. Clinton's health, among other stories - a claim supported to some
extent by recent studies.

Some critics saw those accusations as an effort to shift the discussion from
mistakes the Clinton campaign had made in taking on Mr. Trump.

Mr. Elias's post offered a revealing look at how much time and energy the
campaign had spent in the past two weeks looking for evidence of Russian hacking
or other irregularities, and how it had tried to keep those efforts secret.

"Since the day after the election, we have had lawyers and data scientists and
analysts combing over the results to spot anomalies that would suggest a hacked
result," Mr. Elias wrote.

"Most of those discussions have remained private, while at least one has
unfortunately been the subject of leaks," he wrote, a reference to conversations
between Mr. Podesta and a group of experts that included J. Alex Halderman, a
computer scientist with deep experience in the vulnerabilities of voting
systems.

Mr. Halderman recently put his own post on Medium, describing his suspicions and
the case for recounts. But even he doubted that the election result would
change.

Maggie Haberman and Amy Chozick contributed reporting from New York.

PHOTO: A polling site on Nov. 8 in Altoona, Wis. Jill Stein filed for a recount
in Wisconsin and plans to file in Michigan and Pennsylvania. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MARISA WOJCIK/THE EAU CLAIRE LEADER-TELEGRAM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

Related Articles


     ·    U.S. Officials Defend Integrity of Vote, Despite Hacking Fears
     ·    U.S. Statement on Reliability of Election Results


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             724 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Miami's Cuban Exiles Celebrate Castro's Death

BYLINE: LIZETTE ALVAREZ

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1451 words



HIGHLIGHT: For many Cuban-Americans, still bitter over the revolution that tore
their families from their homes, it was a celebration long in coming.


MIAMI - It did not matter that it was the middle of the night, or that it began
to drizzle. When this city's Cuban-American residents heard the news, they
sprinted to Little Havana. They banged pots and pans. They sang the Cuban
national anthem and waved the Cuban flag. They danced and hugged, laughed and
cried, shouted and rejoiced.

The seemingly eternal vigil for the death ofFidel Castro, a man who had
profoundly changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people here - dividing
their families, taking their property, imprisoning and sometimes shooting their
friends and relatives, wrenching them from their homes and their country - was
over. Finally.

"I owe this to my dad - this going out and celebrating," said Isabel De Lara,
67, a former banker who came to Calle Ocho - Eighth Street - to join in the
jubilation. She wished her father, who is dead, could have joined her.

More than five decades had passed since Ms. De Lara stepped off a plane alone,
from Cuba, sent here at age 12 by parents who feared for her future after the
Castro revolution. For her and so many others, Mr. Castro's death was a
watershed, for he embodied the revolution and the heartbreak that followed.

"Him dying represents the end of something awful that happened to us," she said.
"It's actually him - not anybody else - who caused this. It's because of him
that we lost our opportunity to have a life in our country."

Waves of other Cubans also came, transforming not just their own lives but the
city itself, gradually turning it into the unofficial bilingual capital of Latin
America. With the goal of ousting Mr. Castro and establishing democracy in Cuba,
early exiles built a degree of political and economic clout that outstripped
their relatively small numbers.

Focusing first on local politics and business in the 1970s and 1980s, the exiles
and their children, led by the powerful Cuban American National Foundation,
catapulted into national politics and influence. They gained the power to tilt
presidential elections toward Republicans and sway American foreign policy
against appeasement with Mr. Castro.

"It was important to take the struggle outside of Eighth Street to Washington,"
said Jorge Mas Santos, the son of Jorge Mas Canosa, the man who spearheaded the
foundation and was seen as the leader of Miami's exile community.

That influence remains. The American trade embargo on Cuba is still in force,
requiring the vote of a Congress that is reluctant to remove it. And this year's
presidential campaign saw two Americans of Cuban descent - Senators Marco Rubio
and Ted Cruz - run for the office.

But in the last decade, the pro-embargo, hard-line grip on the minds and votes
of people in Miami and elsewhere has weakened, creating divisions among
Cuban-Americans over how deeply to engage with Cuba and its people.

With Mr. Castro's death, some hard-liners are pushing for retrenchment and hope
that President-elect Donald J. Trump will crack down now that the government has
lost its father figure. Others say that this is the time to flood the zone with
more people, ideas and goods. Cuba's president, Raúl Castro, has opened the
window slightly to economic reform, travel and American influence. Now that his
older brother is gone, they argue, he will be freer to make changes.

But the oldest and most vehement exiles - the historicos, as they are called -
are dying off in large numbers. Their children, while still passionately opposed
to Mr. Castro, are open to closer ties with the Cuban people as a way of stoking
change. (Even Mr. Mas Santos is part of this group.) And their grandchildren
know far less about Cuba and Mr. Castro; many are more intrigued than outraged.
At the same time, recent arrivals, while deeply disenchanted with the Cuban
government, want to see and help their relatives on the island, above all else.

Those shifts in attitude have been translated in Washington. Two years ago,
President Obama surprised Cuban-Americans by announcing a series of changes. He
re-established diplomatic ties and made it easier for Americans to visit and
send money and goods, and also for American businesses to establish a foothold.

"We have moved from a politics of passion to a politics of realism," said Andy
Gomez, a political analyst who was a senior fellow in Cuban studies at the
University of Miami. "We are going to be passionate for the next 72 hours. But
the realism is that the transition has to come within the island. The leadership
has to come from within the island. I don't think anyone in South Florida thinks
they will be president of Cuba, and if they do they are fools."

But Saturday was mostly a day to celebrate. Overnight, thousands, including Ms.
De Lara, joined an impromptu conga line of catharsis in front of Versailles
Restaurant on Eighth Street, the unofficial headquarters of Miami's Cuban
exiles.

So many people showed up, including scores of young people, that the police, at
the mayor's request, closed off several blocks to accommodate the celebration.

Erick and Janette Revuelta stood outside Versailles toasting Mr. Castro's death
with small cups of Cuban coffee. They had come from the St. Augustine, Fla.,
area to celebrate Thanksgiving with family.

Mr. Revuelta, 38, came to America by raft when he was 16, along with his father
and two brothers, in 1994, just before President Bill Clinton signed the
agreement with Cuba that allowed refugees to stay only if they reached dry land,
the so-called "wet foot, dry foot" policy. His mother immigrated several years
later.

Mr. Revuelta also came to Calle Ocho when rumors of Mr. Castro's death
previously spread. "I was here last time he died," he said. "It's been a long
time coming."

Antonio Rodgriguez, 73, left the island in 1960, shortly after he was imprisoned
for three months after speaking against the government. He took a dimmer view.

"He died, but his brother is still there, the government is still there, it's
still the oppressive government," Mr. Rodgriguez said.

Vivian Garcia-Montes Castellá, 75, was 19 when she came to the United States
from Havana, thinking her stay would be temporary. In the early hours of
Saturday, she wept after hearing the news, changed out of her pajamas and joined
the caravan to Little Havana. She danced in the middle of the street, hugging
strangers, as car horns blared.

But there was an overlay of sadness. Ms. Castellá knew so many people who had
waited for this day their entire lives, and many of them had died before it
came. "There was such sadness to think of all the people, and what everyone went
through, and the people who aren't here today to celebrate and witness this,"
she said. "My brother who was in the Bay of Pigs, he couldn't enjoy it the way I
am. The people they killed. The people who drowned on the way over here."

In Miami, the post-Castro convulsion had long been talked about, rumored and
planned for. Once, the city and county had a contingency plan to address a
possible mass exodus of Cubans from the island to Miami; that is no longer
anticipated. But many schools have a Castro-is-dead plan. And police departments
were prepared for what to do - in Miami, this meant letting the people
celebrate.

The fact that Mr. Castro's death came during a long holiday weekend made the
news more manageable in many ways.

Luis Lasa, 67, a retired banker, watched events unfold on television from his
home, but it felt no less emotional. It was a lifetime ago that his father, an
executive for an American company in Cuba, got a call from a military office on
Oct. 25, 1960, warning him to leave the country. He left that night, and the
family followed the next day. Mr. Lasa was 10 years old.

"They destroyed our families, they destroyed our traditions," said Mr. Lasa, who
lost a cousin in the bungled Bay of Pigs invasion. "Forget the property that we
lost. We had been in Cuba 250 years. We lost so much there."

On Saturday, for so many exiles, it finally became easier to look forward and
not back. Fidel Castro, even in his old age, remained the symbol of the
revolution. Raúl Castro ruled, but always in his older brother's shadow, exiles
said.

Without Fidel Castro, Cuba can exhale. Even though change may not come quickly,
there is a strong possibility it will come.

"This is the beginning of the end," Mr. Lasa said.

Neil Reisner and Frances Robles contributed reporting.

PHOTO: Cuban-Americans celebrated together in the Little Havana neighborhood of
Miami on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT MCINTYRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

Related Articles


     ·    Fidel Castro, Cuban Revolutionary Who Defied U.S., Dies at 90
     ·    An Unimaginable Day Arrives in Miami
     ·    In Havana, Castro's Death Lays Bare a Generation Gap
     ·    Rumor Fatigue Sets In at False Alarms of Castro's Death


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             725 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

The Soldier Donald Trump Called a Traitor;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 492 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president-elect's campaign crusade against Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl
makes it unlikely that the former Taliban hostage can get a fair trial.


The case of Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, an American soldier who, after leaving his post,
was held hostage by the Taliban for five years, became a recurring theme of
Donald Trump's unruly campaign speeches.

In August 2015, Mr. Trump fired up a New Hampshire crowd by calling Sergeant
Bergdahl "a dirty rotten traitor." He proceeded to falsely claim that "six young
beautiful people were killed trying to find him." Then he dismissed arguments
that the former hostage's "psychological problems" may have led him to walk off
a base in Afghanistan in 2009. "In the old days," Mr. Trump said, pantomiming an
execution by pretending to fire a rifle twice. "Bing bong."

Those remarks are certain to loom large over Sergeant Bergdahl's court-martial,
which is scheduled to start in April. Sergeant Bergdahl is charged with
desertion and misbehavior in front of the enemy; a guilty verdict could result
in a sentence anywhere from no jail time to life. But how can he get a fair
trial in the military justice system when the next commander in chief has
proclaimed his guilt and accused him of treason?

The short answer is he can't. Eugene Fidell, Mr. Bergdahl's lawyer, says he
intends to submit a motion the day Mr. Trump takes office, cataloging the
roughly 40 times Mr. Trump made disparaging remarks about his client, and
seeking to have the case dismissed.

"There is no precedent for a candidate running for high office to go after a
single individual like this," Mr. Fidell said in an interview. "Because he is at
the pinnacle of the chain of command, what he says not only has direct and
indirect legal consequences but symbolic potency."

Mr. Trump recognized early on that the Bergdahl case had become a flash point
for many voters who had contempt for the Obama administration. In one of the
most thorny national security decisions of his administration, President Obama
released five Afghan detainees held at Guantánamo Bay in exchange for Sergeant
Bergdahl. The negotiations and the swap stunned members of Congress, who are
required by law to be notified before any detainee is released from Guantánamo.

While Sergeant Bergdahl initially came home to a hero's welcome, the terms and
secrecy of the exchange, which angered Republicans and some members of the
military, soon turned the soldier into a political pawn.

There is an alternative to a potentially drawn out legal fight over Mr. Trump's
incendiary remarks in the Bergdahl case. Mr. Obama could issue a pardon before
he leaves office. That would put to rest a prosecution that was questionable
from the outset because Sergeant Bergdahl had pre-existing mental health
problems when the Army granted him a waiver to enlist. He emerged from captivity
deeply traumatized after five years of being subjected to physical and
psychological torture. It is time to let him rebuild his life.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for theOpinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             726 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

The Election and the Market Rally

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 388 words



HIGHLIGHT: Readers comment on "You Can't See the Future in a Stock Surge" (Nov.
20).


"You Can't See the Future in a Stock Surge," by Sendhil Mullainathan of Harvard
(The Upshot, Economic View, Nov. 20), said the market rally that followed the
presidential election was not necessarily an indicator of how the economy would
perform under Donald J. Trump.

The article attracted 26 comments. The following have been edited and condensed.

Good news, yes, but stocks are not "surging." They're making up ground lost in a
shaky summer and fall, and simply resuming the steady year-on-year increase
we've seen throughout President Obama's second term. So I wouldn't be so quick
to call this a referendum on anything beyond campaign fatigue.

Lorem Ipsum, Dallas-Fort Worth

The past has shown us that G.O.P.-sponsored deregulation has ended in scandal
and recessions: the savings and loan debacle in the '80s, and the Great
Recession. Get ready.

DTOM, California

Business knew what to expect from Hillary Clinton, so the pricing was put in
place. It knew increased regulation and taxation would be there, and it knew
that continued outsourcing and shutting down of American factories and a
stripping of the American worker would continue.

With Mr. Trump there are higher risks and higher rewards, which is what business
sees.

Alan Tegel, Whitesboro, Tex.

If history is any guide, asset prices will continue to rise for another eight
years before the bubble bursts. 401(k)'s will be wiped out, real estate prices
will drop precipitously, and banks will be bailed out, again. Everyone will
wonder why they never saw it coming.

WmC, Bokeelia, Fla.

This signals the full confidence of those at the highest levels of wealth that
this "president" will gut the regulatory structures throughout the economy - in
the financial markets, in industry and in corporate America.

Cathy, Massachusetts

Stock prices may well have risen because of the expectation that capital will
garner an even greater portion of national income. Labor is weak, and may be
getting weaker.

Dismayed, Boston

It was reported that drug company stocks rose on the expectation that those
companies will now be able to charge higher prices for prescription meds. Those
older voters who voted for Mr. Trump are going to feel the impact of their vote
very quickly and (literally) right where it hurts most.

DR, New England

Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             727 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 26, 2016 Saturday 00:00 EST

Election Therapy From My Basket of Deplorables;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: MAUREEN DOWD

SECTION: OPINION; sunday

LENGTH: 922 words



HIGHLIGHT: I had an unyielding week, scolded by Donald Trump at The Times and my
conservative family at Thanksgiving.


WASHINGTON - First I had to deal with the president-elect scolding.

During his interview with The New York Times on Tuesday, Donald Trump chided me
twice for being too tough on him.

Sitting next to our publisher, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., Trump invited everyone
around the table to call him if they saw anything "where you feel that I'm
wrong."

"You can call me, Arthur can call me, I would love to hear," he said. "The only
one who can't call me is Maureen. She treats me too rough."

Then I had to go home for Thanksgiving and deal with my family scolding me about
the media misreading the country. I went cold turkey to eat hot turkey: no
therapy dog, no weaving therapy, no yoga, no acupuncture, no meditation, no
cry-in.

The minute I saw my sister's Trump champagne and a Cersei figurine as the
centerpiece - my brother, Kevin, nicknamed Hillary "Cersei" during this year's
brutal game of thrones - I knew I wasn't in a safe space.

My little basket of deplorables, as I call my conservative family, gloated with
Trump toasts galore, and Kevin presented me with his annual holiday column with
an extra flourish.

My colleague Paul Krugman tweeted Friday that "affluent, educated suburbanites"
who voted for Trump are "fools." What else is there to say, he asked.

Well, here is what Kevin, an affluent, educated suburbanite, has to say in his
column, titled an "Election Therapy Guide for Liberals":

Donald Trump pulled off one of the greatest political feats in modern history by
defeating Hillary Clinton and the vaunted Clinton machine.

The election was a complete repudiation of Barack Obama: his fantasy world of
political correctness, the politicization of the Justice Department and the
I.R.S., an out-of-control E.P.A., his neutering of the military, his nonsupport
of the police and his fixation on things like transgender bathrooms. Since he
became president, his party has lost 63 House seats, 10 Senate seats and 14
governorships.

The country had signaled strongly in the last two midterms that they were not
happy. The Dems' answer was to give them more of the same from a person they did
not like or trust.

Preaching - and pandering - with a message of inclusion, the Democrats have
instead become a party where incivility and bad manners are taken for granted,
rudeness is routine, religion is mocked and there is absolutely no respect for a
differing opinion. This did not go down well in the Midwest, where Trump flipped
three blue states and 44 electoral votes.

The rudeness reached its peak when Vice President-elect Mike Pence was booed by
attendees of "Hamilton" and then pompously lectured by the cast. This may play
well with the New York theater crowd but is considered boorish and unacceptable
by those of us taught to respect the office of the president and vice president,
if not the occupants.

Here is a short primer for the young protesters. If your preferred candidate
loses, there is no need for mass hysteria, canceled midterms, safe spaces,
crying rooms or group primal screams. You might understand this better if you
had not received participation trophies, undeserved grades to protect your
feelings or even if you had a proper understanding of civics. The Democrats are
now crying that Hillary had more popular votes. That can be her participation
trophy.

If any of my sons had told me they were too distraught over a national election
to take an exam, I would have brought them home the next day, fearful of the
instruction they were receiving. Not one of the top 50 colleges mandate one
semester of Western Civilization. Maybe they should rethink that.

Mr. Trump received over 62 million votes, not all of them cast by homophobes,
Islamaphobes, racists, sexists, misogynists or any other "ists." I would caution
Trump deniers that all of the crying and whining is not good preparation for the
coming storm. The liberal media, both print and electronic, has lost all
credibility. I am reasonably sure that none of the mainstream print media had
stories prepared for a Trump victory. I watched the networks and cable stations
in their midnight meltdown - embodied by Rachel Maddow explaining to viewers
that they were not having a "terrible, terrible dream" and that they had not
died and "gone to hell."

The media's criticism of Trump's high-level picks as "not diverse enough" or
"too white and male" - a day before he named two women and offered a cabinet
position to an African-American - magnified this fact.

Here is a final word to my Democratic friends. The election is over. There will
not be a do-over. So let me bid farewell to Al Sharpton, Ben Rhodes and the
Clintons. Note to Cher, Barbra, Amy Schumer and Lena Dunham: Your plane is
waiting. And to Jon Stewart, who talked about moving to another planet: Your
spaceship is waiting. To Bruce Springsteen, Jay Z, Beyoncé and Katy Perry,
thanks for the free concerts. And finally, to all the foreign countries that
contributed to the Clinton Foundation, there will not be a payoff or a rebate.

As Eddie Murphy so eloquently stated in the movie "48 Hrs.": "There's a new
sheriff in town." And he is going to be here for 1,461 days. Merry Christmas.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

PHOTO: Her game of thrones over, Cersei - as Kevin Dowd nicknamed Hillary
Clinton - stood guard over the Dowd family Thanksgiving, where Trump champagne
also held court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN DOWD)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             728 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 27, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Fidel Castro, Formula One, François Fillon: Your Monday Briefing;
Europe Edition

BYLINE: PATRICK BOEHLER

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1094 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

A recount effort in the United States presidential election that began in
Wisconsin may extend this week to two more states narrowly lost by Hillary
Clinton.

President-elect Donald J. Trump dismissed the effort as a "scam" and unleashed a
daylong storm of Twitter posts, including asserting without evidence that his
shortfall in the popular vote was because of "millions of people" voting
illegally.

The Twitter outburst also came as Mr. Trump is laboring to fill crucial
positions in his cabinet. An adviser assailed Mitt Romney, one the top
candidates for secretary of state, as having gone "out of his way to hurt" the
president-elect in the primaries.

_____

Mr. Trump's business dealings around the globe are raising widespread concerns
over conflicts of interest. One example is a postelection telephone call with
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, in which the president-elect praised
his business associate in the Trump Towers in Istanbul, above.

In Scotland, Mr. Trump built a wall on the border of his golf course, blocking
the sea view of local residents, and then sent them the bill.

_____

François Fillon, a conservative government veteran who called for economic
sacrifice, major changes in the workplace and a crackdown on immigration and
Islam, won a runoff to represent France's center-right Republican Party in
April's presidential contest.

The outcome paved the way for a likely face-off with the country's far-right
party.

_____

The Cuban government is rolling out plans for a nine-day period of "Duelo
Nacional," or national pain, after the death of Fidel Castro, 90.

The country, which defied the United States for nearly half a century before
hostilities eased, remains firmly in the grip of his brother, Raúl Castro.

The capital, Havana, has been quiet, but Cuban exiles celebrated in Miami. Mr.
Castro's ashes will be interred on Sunday.

_____

In Tbilisi, Georgia, a two-room apartment shared by a computer science student
and his younger brother is an unlikely offshore outpost of America's fake news
industry.

"I did not write to make Trump win," the student said. "I just wanted to get
viewers and make some money."

_____

Business

Swiss voters rejected a proposal to phase out nuclear power by 2029.

American retailers have geared up for Cyber Monday, the last day of deals in
what has become an annual shopping weekend. Sales rose 18 percent over last
year, to $5.3 billion. Visits to brick-and-mortar stores dipped.

The European Court of Justice will hear arguments on Tuesday that will most
likely determine how Uber can operate across the European Union.

Our business columnist tracked the fortune of J. K. Rowling, the "Harry Potter"
author. He estimates Ms. Rowling's net worth at $1.2 billion, noting that she
pays taxes and gives generously to charity.

A start-up thinks it may have found the secret to growing truffles.

Here's a snapshot of global markets.

In the News

In Montenegro, a detained mercenary is slowly spilling his guts on a purported
plot orchestrated by two Russians to kill the prime minister and install a new
government hostile to NATO. [The New York Times]

Viktor F. Yanukovych, the former president of Ukraine, said that he regretted
not ordering troops to disperse the mass protests that forced him into exile in
Russia. [The New York Times]

The U.K. Independence Party is expected to announce its new leader today. [The
Financial Times]

The Vatican is seeking a grand compromise with China's Communist leaders to heal
a decades-old rift that has divided generations of Chinese Catholics. [The New
York Times]

A Moroccan state broadcaster instructed women on ways to hide signs of domestic
violence with makeup. [The Guardian]

U.S. officials say they will close a protest camp that has drawn thousands of
Native Americans opposed to an oil pipeline in North Dakota. [The New York
Times]

"I see the anger I was raised with rocking the nation." A young American who
renounced white nationalism considers the wave of white rage that aligned behind
Donald J. Trump as he ascended to the White House. [The New York Times]

Noteworthy

A weekslong chess battle between Sergey Karjakin of Russia and the defending
world champion, Magnus Carlsen of Norway, could end today.

Simmering Cold War tensions have given the match weightier geopolitical
overtones. A Russian spokesman said that President Vladimir V. Putin receives
constant updates.

Anger rooms let customers smash objects to release their rage. Sessions are
meant to be therapeutic, but mental health professionals question the efficacy
of rampaging in a faux cubicle.

Nico Rosberg, driving for Mercedes, became the second son of a Formula One world
champion to win the title himself.

"Hero of the Empire," an account of Winston Churchill's time in South Africa,
and "Iza's Ballad," a meditative Hungarian novel, are among our 100 Notable
Books of 2016. Here's the full list.

And just look at these trees in Lapland, Finland's northernmost region. They are
so coated in frosty rime that they could be mistaken for towers of shaving foam.

Back Story

That banana you might be having for breakfast is probably a Cavendish, the most
widely available variety of one of the world's most popular fruits.

But a deadly fungus is on the march, and the Cavendish's lack of genetic
diversity is raising fears of a possible "bananapocalypse."

The killer, a strain of Panama disease called Tropical Race 4, has spread to
China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Taiwan and the Northern Territory of Australia, and
has recently been found in Africa and the Middle East.

With its yellow peel and seedless fruit, the Cavendish makes up 95 percent of
bananas sold worldwide, according to the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization.

The previous dominant variety, the Gros Michel, was devastated by another form
of the fungus in the 1950s. Growers turned to the Cavendish, whose strength lies
more in disease resistance than flavor. (One expert said it "had been considered
something close to junk.")

The Cavendish is thought to have arrived in England in the 1800s from Mauritius,
taking its name from the family in whose greenhouse it was cultivated.
Missionaries eventually carried it to the Pacific islands.

One scientist sees a silver lining in newly urgent efforts to save the seeds
from wild bananas. "Race 4 is a threat," he says, "but it's also an opportunity
to start growing more diversity."

Remy Tumin contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             729 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 27, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

François Fillon Wins Center-Right Nomination for French Presidency

BYLINE: ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 987 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Fillon, a former prime minister who pledged to limit immigration
and control Islam, handily defeated Alain Juppé in a Republican Party runoff.


PARIS - French voters chose a socially conservative, budget-cutting former prime
minister on Sunday to lead the center-right Republican Party in next year's
presidential election. Once again, the outcome upset pollsters' initial
predictions, and it paved the way for a likely face-off with the country's
far-right party in 2017.

François Fillon, 62, a sober, dark-suited government veteran who called for
economic sacrifice, major changes in the French workplace and a crackdown on
immigration and Islam, won about 67 percent of the vote in the primary contest
on Sunday, crushing his more centrist opponent, Alain Juppé, who is also a
former prime minister.

French presidential elections are usually decided in two rounds, with the first
round winnowing the field to two candidates. Having won his party's primary, Mr.
Fillon is widely expected to be one of those two finalists in the general
election in the spring.

It now seems increasingly unlikely that the current governing party, the
Socialists, will produce the other. The French left is weak and in disarray
after five years in which high unemployment rates and slow economic growth have
barely budged. President François Hollande has not said whether he will run for
another term, and many in his party hope he does not.

Instead, the second contender is widely expected to be Marine Le Pen of the
far-right National Front. Her party has never been able to attract the backing
of more than about one-third of France's electorate, and for now at least, few
analysts predict that it can win the presidency next year. But the xenophobic,
anti-immigrant party has received a new lift from the triumph of President-elect
Donald J. Trump in the United States.

Mr. Fillon, with his themes of restoring France's identity and national
greatness and his tough language on immigrants and Islam, has been making a
clear play for Ms. Le Pen's voters.

His promise to slash 500,000 government jobs and cut the budget by more than 100
billion euros (about $106 billion) could leave him vulnerable against Ms. Le
Pen, who promises to safeguard France's substantial safety net of government
protections and spending. Mr. Fillon told supporters during the campaign that he
was going to "break down the house," but many in France don't want the house
broken.

Promises of top-to-bottom economic overhaul have generally brought thousands of
demonstrators into the streets. Unions are already sounding warnings about Mr.
Fillon's plans to reduce the state's role in the economy, and the National Front
has heaped scorn on his proposals.

In his victory speech on Sunday night, Mr. Fillon emphasized traditional French
rightist themes of restoring "authority" and "French values," as he did
throughout the campaign, when commentators largely dismissed his chances.

"In our country, there is an immense need for respect and pride," Mr. Fillon
told cheering supporters in Paris. "There is also a demand for the authority of
the state, and for exemplary behavior from those who govern it. In my conduct,
the voters of the right and the center have found the French values to which
they are so much attached."

His opponent, Mr. Juppé, campaigned on a "unity" theme that led many on the
right to suggest that he was a leftist in disguise. The notes Mr. Fillon sounded
were darker.

With many of his fellow citizens uneasy over immigration, terrorist attacks and
the integration of Muslims, Mr. Fillon vowed to restore a more traditional
France by strictly regulating Islam and limiting immigration, and promised an
alliance with Russia to crush what he called "totalitarian" Islamists.
Commentators have noted Mr. Fillon's close relations with Vladimir V. Putin,
Russia's president.

Mr. Fillon served as an overshadowed prime minister when Nicolas Sarkozy was
president from 2007-12. In the first round of voting on Nov. 20, he crushed his
former boss, who had regularly humiliated him.

A Catholic from conservative, rural western France, Mr. Fillon entered
Parliament in 1981; at 27, he was the house's youngest member. Catholic voters
who appreciated his positions against abortion and same-sex marriage supported
him heavily in the presidential race, even though he has promised not to
interfere with legal guarantees of either.

Mr. Fillon still sits in the National Assembly and lives in a medieval manor
house near Le Mans with his family; he has five children. During the campaign,
he spoke often of France's identity and of instilling the country's "national
epic" in its schools.

"France can't tolerate its slippage," Mr. Fillon told supporters on Sunday
night. "France wants truth and action. This past presidential term has been
pathetic. We've got to end it and start afresh, as we haven't done in over 30
years."

Mr. Fillon has promised to rewrite France's 3,000-page labor code, reduce taxes
on companies and the rich, raise the retirement age to 65, and lengthen the
35-hour standard workweek. He called his program "more radical, maybe more
difficult," in a televised debate with Mr. Juppé last week.

"I could have said more agreeable things," Mr. Fillon said. "But the only way to
keep one's promises is to have a very precise program."

His supporters do not appear to be scared by these promises, at least for now.
"He's an upright man," said Roselyne Duchaine, 81, a retiree in Paris's 17th
arrondissement who said she had voted for Mr. Fillon on Sunday.

Another voter, Thierry Roland, 68, said: "Fillon has the rigor. He shows his
hand."

Benoît Morenne contributed reporting.

PHOTO: François Fillon, a former prime minister, in Paris on Sunday, when he
handily defeated Alain Juppé in a primary runoff. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE
WOJAZER/REUTERS)

Related Articles


     ·    A Candidate Rises on Vows to Control Islam and Immigration. This Time
          in France.
     ·    Nicolas Sarkozy Is Out as François Fillon Takes Surprise Lead in
          French Primary
     ·    After Trump Win, Parallel Path Is Seen for Marine Le Pen of France's
          Far Right


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             730 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 27, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Fidel Castro, François Fillon, Narendra Modi: Your Monday Briefing;
Asia Pacific Edition

BYLINE: ANDREA KANNAPELL and ZACH MONTAGUE

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1142 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

A recount effort in the United States presidential election that began in
Wisconsin may extend this week to two more states narrowly lost by Hillary
Clinton.

President-elect Donald J. Trump dismissed the effort as a "scam" and unleashed a
daylong storm of Twitter posts, including asserting without evidence that his
shortfall in the popular vote was due to "millions of people" voting illegally.

A Trump adviser assailed Mitt Romney, one the top candidates for secretary of
state, as having gone "out of his way to hurt" Mr. Trump in the primaries.

_____

Mr. Trump's business dealings around the globe are raising widespread concerns
over conflicts of interest. One example: his business partnership with a
real-estate developer named as the Philippines' special envoy to the United
States.

Well-placed American officials say the president-elect's focus on China may be
shifting from a trade war to the need for help in addressing North Korea's
expanding nuclear arsenal. Experts say the North's capacity already threatens
America's regional allies, Japan and South Korea.

_____

The Cuban government is rolling out plans for a nine-day period of "Duelo
Nacional," or national pain, after the death of Fidel Castro, 90.

The country, which defied the United States for nearly half a century before
hostilities eased, remains firmly in the grip of his brother, Raúl Castro.

The capital, Havana, has been quiet, but Cuban exiles celebrated in Miami.

_____

The Vatican has built momentum in talks with Beijing to ease tensions dating
back to 1949, when the ascendant Communist Party expelled Catholic missionaries
from China.

Some fear that the pope's eagerness to reach a deal could play into the hands of
China's hard-line president, Xi Jinping.

_____

South Korea's political crisis escalated after a weekend protest against
President Park Geun-hye that appeared to be the largest yet. Ms. Park, whose
approval ratings have fallen into the low single digits, stayed holed up in her
official residence and through a spokesman denied charges against her in the
influence-peddling scandal that inspired the protests.

A looming impeachment vote is expected between this Friday and next.

_____

Business

American shoppers took advantage of post-Thanksgiving deals, pushing so-called
Black Friday sales up 18 percent over last year, to $5.3 billion, according to
industry analysts. But visits to brick-and-mortar stores dipped.

The animated Disney film "Moana" took in more than $81 million at domestic
theaters over the five-day holiday weekend and an additional $16.3 million in
limited overseas release, including in China.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to the radio to soothe Indians distressed by
his ban on large banknotes, pledging that the difficulties caused by the ban
would ease soon.

A California startup thinks it may have found the secret to growing truffles.

Here's a snapshot of global markets.

In the News

Days before the Australian government will report to Unesco on the health of the
Great Barrier Reef, reports emerged that record coral bleaching damage may be
worse than initially thought. [The Brisbane Times]

François Fillon won a runoff to represent France's center-right Republican Party
in next year's presidential contest, paving the way for a likely faceoff with
the far right. [The New York Times]

China's government has pledged to expand land use rights for homeowners, giving
residents more control over properties they buy. [South China Morning Post]

The Philippine Army said it had killed 11 Maute extremists who had raised the
black flag of the Islamic State in the country's south. [Rappler]

The Israeli military said it killed four militants linked to the Islamic State
after they attacked Israeli forces in the Golan Heights. [The New York Times]

U.S. officials say they will close a protest camp that has drawn thousands of
Native Americans opposed to an oil pipeline. [The New York Times]

A computer science student in the nation of Georgia says he was just looking for
ad dollars when he started purveying the kind of fake news that played a role in
the U.S. election. [The New York Times]

"I see the anger I was raised with rocking the nation." A young American who
renounced white nationalism considers the wave of white rage that aligned behind
Donald J. Trump as he ascended to the White House. [The New York Times]

Noteworthy

A weeks-long chess battle that could end today pits Sergey Karjakin of Russia
against the defending world champion, Magnus Carlsen of Norway, pictured above.

Simmering Cold War tensions have given the match weightier geopolitical
overtones. A Russian spokesman said that President Vladimir V. Putin receives
constant updates.

Our business columnist tracked the fortune of J.K. Rowling, the "Harry Potter"
author. He estimates her net worth at $1.2 billion, noting that she pays taxes
and gives generously to charity.

"At a time of bitter disputes over rising income inequality," he concludes, "no
one seems to resent Ms. Rowling's runaway success."

"Black Water," a novel which recalls Indonesia's turmoil in the 20th century,
and "Do Not Say We Have Nothing," which traces seven decades of Chinese
political history, are among our 100 Notable Books of 2016.

Here's the full list.

Back Story

That banana you might be having for breakfast is probably a Cavendish, the most
widely available variety of one of the world's most popular fruits.

But a deadly fungus is on the march, and the Cavendish's lack of genetic
diversity is raising fears of a possible "bananapocalypse."

The killer, a strain of Panama Disease called Tropical Race 4, has spread to
China, Taiwan, Indonesia, Malaysia and Australia's Northern Territory, and has
recently been found in Africa and the Middle East.

With its yellow peel and seedless fruit, the Cavendish makes up 95 percent of
bananas sold worldwide, according to the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization.

The previous dominant variety, the Gros Michel, was decimated by another form of
the fungus in the 1950s. Growers turned to the Cavendish, whose strength lies
more in disease resistance than flavor. (One expert said it "had been considered
something close to junk.")

The Cavendish is thought to have arrived in England in the 1800s from Mauritius,
taking its name from the family in whose greenhouse it was cultivated.
Missionaries eventually carried it to the Pacific islands.

One scientist sees a silver lining in newly urgent efforts to save the seeds
from wild bananas. "Race 4 is a threat," he says, "but it's also an opportunity
to start growing more diversity."

Remy Tumin contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of
the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             731 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 27, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Trump Claims, With No Evidence, That 'Millions of People' Voted Illegally

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR and MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1286 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president-elect made the unsubstantiated claim as part of a storm
of Twitter posts voicing anger about a three-state recount push.


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald J. Trump said on Sunday that he had fallen
short in the popular vote in the general election only because millions of
people had voted illegally, leveling the baseless claim as part of a daylong
storm of Twitter posts voicing anger about a three-state recount push.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," Mr. Trump wrote
Sunday afternoon.

The series of posts came one day after Hillary Clinton's campaign said it would
participate in a recount effort being undertaken in Wisconsin, and potentially
in similar pushes in Michigan and Pennsylvania, by Jill Stein, who was the Green
Party candidate. Mr. Trump's statements revived claims he made during the
campaign, as polls suggested he was losing to Mrs. Clinton, about a rigged and
corrupt system.

The Twitter outburst also came as Mr. Trump is laboring to fill crucial
positions in his cabinet, with his advisers enmeshed in a rift over whom he
should select as secretary of state. On Sunday morning, Kellyanne Conway, a top
adviser, extended a public campaign to undermine one contender, Mitt Romney - a
remarkable display by a member of a president-elect's team. In television
appearances, she accused Mr. Romney of having gone "out of his way to hurt" Mr.
Trump during the Republican primary contests.

Claims of wide-scale voter fraud have been advanced for years by Republicans,
though virtually no evidence of such improprieties has been discovered -
especially on the scale of "millions" that Mr. Trump claimed.

Late on Sunday, again without providing evidence, he referred in a Twitter post
to "serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California."

A day earlier, Mr. Trump's transition team ridiculed the idea that recounts were
needed. "This is a scam by the Green Party for an election that has already been
conceded," it said in a statement, "and the results of this election should be
respected instead of being challenged and abused."

That message runs counter to the one Mr. Trump sent on Sunday with his fraud
claims - if millions of people voted illegally, presumably officials across the
country would want to pursue large-scale ballot recounts and fraud
investigations.

But the Twitter posts could energize some of his supporters, who have claimed
online that Mrs. Clinton's two million-vote lead in the popular vote has been
faked. Mr. Trump at times promoted other conspiracy theories during the
campaign, including claiming that Senator Ted Cruz's father was somehow tied to
the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

Many of Mrs. Clinton's supporters have been galvanized by the notion that vote
recounts in the three states - where Mr. Trump leads by a combined total of
about 100,000 votes - could somehow overturn Mr. Trump's commanding Electoral
College victory. By announcing, three weeks after Mrs. Clinton conceded, that it
would participate in the Wisconsin recount, her team has helped reignite the
contentious atmosphere of the campaign, of which Mr. Trump's Twitter barrages
were a fixture. (By all accounts, Mr. Trump types out many, though not all, of
his own Twitter posts.)

After spending almost five days in Palm Beach, Fla., where he celebrated
Thanksgiving at his Mar-a-Lago resort, Mr. Trump made no public statements on
Sunday other than those via Twitter. He returned in the afternoon to Trump Tower
in Manhattan.

Through the day, Mr. Trump appeared fixated on the recount and his electoral
performance. In a series of midafternoon Twitter posts, not long before he
boarded his flight, Mr. Trump boasted that he could have easily won the
"so-called popular vote" if he had campaigned only in "3 or 4" states,
presumably populous ones.

"I would have won even more easily and convincingly (but smaller states are
forgotten)!" he wrote.

The afternoon messages followed a string of early-morning Twitter posts in which
Mr. Trump railed against the recount efforts. In an initial post at 7:19, he
wrote: "Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to
the victory speech and after the results were in. Nothing will change."

He went on to quote a comment by Mrs. Clinton during one of their debates, in
which she said she was horrified by Mr. Trump's refusal to say that he would
accept the outcome of the election. And he noted that in her concession speech,
she had urged people to respect the vote results.

"'We have to accept the results and look to the future, Donald Trump is going to
be our President,'" Mr. Trump wrote, quoting Mrs. Clinton.

One person who spoke with Mr. Trump over the holiday weekend said the
president-elect had appeared to be preoccupied by suggestions that a recount
might be started, even as his aides played down any concerns. Another friend
said Mr. Trump felt crossed by Mrs. Clinton, who he believed had conceded the
race and accepted the results.

In a post on Medium, Marc Elias, the Clinton team's general counsel, said the
campaign would participate in Ms. Stein's recount effort with little expectation
that it would change the result, partly out of a sense of duty to the millions
who voted for Mrs. Clinton.

"We do so fully aware that the number of votes separating Donald Trump and
Hillary Clinton in the closest of these states - Michigan - well exceeds the
largest margin ever overcome in a recount," Mr. Elias said, noting that Clinton
campaign officials had found no "actionable evidence" of hacking or attempts to
tamper with the vote.

Late Sunday night, Mr. Elias responded on Twitter to Mr. Trump's allegations,
writing, "We are getting attacked for participating in a recount that we didn't
ask for by the man who won election but thinks there was massive fraud."

In Wisconsin, Mr. Trump leads by 22,177 votes. In Michigan, he has a lead of
10,704 votes, and in Pennsylvania, his advantage is 70,638 votes.

Mr. Trump's aides echoed his concerns about the recount effort in appearances on
Sunday morning television news programs. Ms. Conway, who was his campaign
manager, said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that Mrs. Clinton and her campaign
advisers would have to decide "whether they're going to be a bunch of
crybabies."

As for the debate over Mr. Romney, Ms. Conway, echoing comments she posted last
week on Twitter, made clear that she opposed choosing Mr. Romney as secretary of
state.

"There was the 'Never Trump' movement, and then there was Gov. Mitt Romney," she
said on ABC. During the primaries, Mr. Romney called Mr. Trump a "fraud" and a
"phony."

Ms. Conway said it was important for Mr. Trump to seek to unify the Republican
Party by making gestures to those who opposed his candidacy. But, she added, "I
don't think the cost of party unity has to be the secretary of state position."

Moments after appearing on the show, Ms. Conway, who is under consideration to
be Mr. Trump's press secretary, wrote on Twitter that she had told Mr. Trump her
opinion privately, "and I'll respect his decision."

On "Meet the Press," she said people felt "betrayed" by the idea that Mr. Romney
could get a top cabinet job. "I'm not campaigning against anyone," she said.
"I'm just a concerned citizen."

"We don't even know if he voted for Donald Trump," she added.

Michael D. Shear reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.

PHOTO: President-elect Donald J. Trump and his wife, Melania, and son Barron
left Florida on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A13)
 GRAPHIC: A White House in Manhattan: The police and Secret Service have shut
down street lanes and sidewalks near President-elect Donald J. Trump's New York
home in the top three floors of Trump Tower. (Source: New York City Police)
(A13)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             732 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 27, 2016 Sunday 00:00 EST

Combative, Populist Steve Bannon Found His Man in Donald Trump

BYLINE: SCOTT SHANE

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 5240 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Bannon courted politicians who share his dark, populist worldview
of a ruling class preying on working Americans and "the Judeo-Christian West" in
a "war against Islamic fascism."


Correction Appended

When Julia Jones arrived at her office in Santa Monica at 8 a.m. - by Hollywood
screenwriter standards, the crack of dawn - she found Stephen K. Bannon already
at his desk, which was cluttered with takeout coffees. They were co-writers on a
Ronald Reagan documentary, but Mr. Bannon had pretty much taken it over. He had
been at work for hours, he told her, writing feverishly about his political
hero.

Today, with Donald J. Trump, whose election Mr. Bannon helped engineer, on the
threshold of power, the 2004 film "In the Face of Evil" has a prophetic ring.
Its trailer has an over-the-top, apocalyptic feel: lurid footage of bombs
dropping on cities alternating with grainy clips of Reagan speeches, as a choir
provides a soaring soundtrack. The message: Only one man was up to the challenge
posed by looming domestic and global threats.

"A man with a vision," the trailer says. "An outsider, a radical with extreme
views."

The Reagan presidency has been a recurring touchstone for Mr. Bannon since 1980,
when as a 26-year-old Navy officer he talked his way into Mr. Reagan's election
night celebration. It was at an early screening of "In the Face of Evil" that he
met fellow Reagan admirer Andrew Breitbart, the budding conservative media
provocateur.

Breitbart.com's scorn for Muslims, immigrants and black activists drew a fervent
following on the alt-right, an extremist fringe of message boards and online
magazines popular with white supremacists, and after Mr. Bannon took control of
the website in 2012, he built a raucous coalition of the discontented.

More quietly, Mr. Bannon systematically courted a series of politicians,
especially those who share his dark, populist worldview: at home, a corrupt
ruling class preying on working Americans; globally, "the Judeo-Christian West"
in a "war against Islamic fascism." They were views that placed him closer to
the European right than to the Republican mainstream.

He made flattering films about Michele Bachmann, the former congresswoman from
Minnesota, and Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor and vice-presidential
candidate; repeatedly pressed the television host Lou Dobbs to run for office;
and flirted with a range of Republican presidential hopefuls, including Rick
Santorum, Ben Carson and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. Finally, in Mr. Trump, Mr.
Bannon found his man.

Mr. Bannon told a colleague in multiple conversations during the presidential
campaign that he knew Mr. Trump was an "imperfect vessel" for the revolution he
had in mind. But the upstart candidate and the media entrepreneur bonded anyway.

In August 2015, Mr. Bannon told Ms. Jones in an email that he had turned
Breitbart, where employees called certain political stories "Bannon Specials,"
into "Trump Central" and joked that he was the candidate's hidden "campaign
manager." He hosted Mr. Trump for friendly radio interviews and offered tactful
coaching. This August, with the Trump campaign foundering, Mr. Bannon took over
as chief executive.

Like Reagan, Mr. Trump addressed the people he called "the forgotten men and
women of our country" - the white working and middle class. He vowed to take on
Islamic radicalism, as Reagan had faced off against communism. Echoing the
sole-savior theme of "In the Face of Evil," Mr. Trump declared of the nation's
predicament, "Only I can fix it."

Ms. Jones, for one, had no trouble seeing the parallels. "Trump," she said, "is
Steve's Reagan."

[Video:  Trailer of the 2004 documentary "In the Face of Evil," which Mr. Bannon
helped write.  Watch on YouTube.]

Mr. Trump, of course, is not Mr. Bannon's creation, and the president-elect
would not take kindly to any such implication. (Asked on Tuesday by New York
Times journalists about Mr. Bannon, Mr. Trump praised him but said, pointedly,
"I'm the one who makes the decisions.")

But Mr. Bannon understood better than any other 2016 campaign strategist how
many voters were seeking dramatic change, said Patrick Caddell, a veteran
pollster, who all but predicted a Trump victory on election eve as most pundits
were calling the race for Hillary Clinton. "He's been the forerunner
intellectually of this moment," Mr. Caddell said. "His ideology is that of the
outsider and the insurgent."

To understand what to expect from the Trump administration means in part to
fathom the driven, contradictory character of Mr. Bannon, whom the
president-elect has named senior counselor and chief White House strategist.
Rarely has there been so incendiary a figure at the side of a president-elect,
thrilling Mr. Trump's more extreme supporters while unnerving ethnic and
religious minorities and many other Americans.

How did this son of Richmond, Va., who attended Harvard Business School, spent
years at Goldman Sachs and became wealthy working at the intersection of
entertainment and finance come to view the political and financial elites as his
archenemy? Why does a man who calls himself a "hard-nosed capitalist" rail
against "globalists" of "the party of Davos" and attack the Republican
establishment with special glee?

As a filmmaker, Mr. Bannon, 63, has cited both the Nazi propagandist Leni
Riefenstahl and the left-wing documentarian Michael Moore as models. In top
physical shape as a young Navy officer, and for years wearing the banker's
uniform of expensive suits, Mr. Bannon has in recent years sported flannel
shirts and cargo pants. With a paunch and a sometimes scraggly beard, Mr. Bannon
has a rugged look that Stephen Colbert described as "Robert Redford dredged from
a river."

He is an avid reader of history, fond of citing Plutarch and Plato, and his
career reflects a restless, eclectic mind. He has conceived a rap musical based
on Shakespeare's "Coriolanus" (never completed); overseen the troubled Biosphere
2 project, an experiment in the Arizona desert meant to mimic the earth's
ecosystem; acquired partial rights to "Seinfeld" before it became a megahit;
moved to Shanghai to run a company marshaling Chinese computer gamers to earn
points for Western players; and produced films on Washington corruption, Occupy
Wall Street and Phil Robertson of "Duck Dynasty."

Vociferous critics of his appointment, a diverse group that includes the
conservative talk-show host Glenn Beck and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont,
who challenged Mrs. Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination, have
variously called Mr. Bannon a racist, a sexist, an anti-Semite and an
Islamophobe. Interviews with two dozen people who know him well, however,
portray a man not easily labeled, capable of surprising both friends and
enemies, with unshakable self-confidence and striking intensity. (Mr. Bannon
turned down a request for an interview, saying he was too busy with the
presidential transition.)

Fans and foes agree that he is a "screamer," a volcanic personality who
sometimes resorts to offensive or hyperbolic language. One of his three former
wives claimed in court papers that he had said he did not want their twin
daughters to go to school with Jews who raise their children to be "whiny
brats," a claim Mr. Bannon denies. In a 2011 radio interview, he dismissed
liberal women as "a bunch of dykes that came from the Seven Sisters schools."

In a radio interview last year with Mr. Trump, Mr. Bannon complained,
inaccurately, that "two-thirds or three-quarters of the C.E.O.s in Silicon
Valley are from South Asia or from Asia." He has sometimes portrayed a grave
threat to civilization not just from violent jihadists but from "Islam." He once
suggested to a colleague that perhaps only property owners should be allowed to
vote. In an email to a Breitbart colleague in 2014, he dismissed Republican
congressional leaders with an epithet and added, "Let the grass roots turn on
the hate."

"No one has called him nice," said Patrick McSweeney, a former chairman of the
Virginia Republican Party and a Bannon admirer who has known his family for
years. "He is the least politically correct person I know. His overriding
concern is getting the mission accomplished."

Mr. Bannon encouraged clickbait incitement on Breitbart.com, and links to
Breitbart articles are often spread on Twitter and Facebook alongside Nazi
rhetoric and racial slurs. Saying he is an economic nationalist and not a white
nationalist, Mr. Bannon has dismissed such devotees as the kind of marginal
characters who turn up in every political movement, but he has only mildly
denounced the bigots among his admirers.

Some longtime associates said they had never heard him express bigoted views.
"In the 14 years I've known him, I've never heard him utter a racist or
anti-Semitic comment," said Peter Schweizer, a conservative author and the
president of the Government Accountability Institute, where Mr. Bannon was a
founder and the executive chairman.

Mr. Bannon's backers note that several of Breitbart's top editors and managers
are Jewish - as was Mr. Breitbart himself - and the site is staunchly
pro-Israel. They also point out that Mr. Bannon's longtime assistant, Wendy
Colbert, is African-American; so are Sonnie Johnson, a conservative writer he
promoted on Breitbart, and a former Goldman colleague who has been a close
friend for three decades and considers Mr. Bannon family, but who asked not to
be named to avoid a flood of media attention.

Mary Beth Meredith, Mr. Bannon's sister, said accusations of personal bigotry
against him were "absolutely absurd." "We have interfaith marriages in our own
family," she said. "We have interracial marriages - our family is a microcosm of
the U.S."

Where some perceive racism and nativism, others see a different -ism:
opportunism. Whatever may be in his heart, they say, Mr. Bannon was happy to
draw a white nationalist following to Breitbart, while denying that was his
intent.

Ben Shapiro, a former Breitbart editor who has been sharply critical of Mr.
Bannon, called him "a manipulator" who had "mainstreamed" far-right extremists
for cynical political purposes.

Ms. Jones, Mr. Bannon's former film collaborator, who describes herself as very
liberal, said, "Steve's not a racist."

But, she added, "he's using the alt-right - using them for power."

'Son of the South'

Robin Mickle, a fellow Navy officer of Mr. Bannon's aboard the destroyer Paul F.
Foster, remembers that he and some of his idealistic mates were struck by
something Mr. Bannon told them in 1978.

"He said he joined the Navy so it would look good on his résumé because he
wanted to go into politics someday," said Mr. Mickle, a retired defense
contractor.

Another officer, Sonny Masso, who would stay in the Navy and eventually make
admiral, recalls a devoted reader of The Wall Street Journal who picked stocks
to buy through a San Diego broker and had an astonishing ability to retain
information.

He was fit, too. "He'd run five miles at lunch and he had a 32-inch waist," Mr.
Masso said. "Very preppy when we were out of uniform - polo shirts with
alligators on them, and penny loafers with no socks."

Mr. Bannon was the middle child of five in an Irish Catholic family from a leafy
North Richmond neighborhood. His father, Martin, 95, to whom he remains very
close, was a telephone lineman who had worked his way into middle management at
the phone company.

Steve and his two brothers went to Benedictine High School, an all-male Catholic
military school in Richmond where the boys wore uniforms, kept their hair short
and were called cadets. "It was a very conservative world," said John Pudner, a
Benedictine graduate who knows Mr. Bannon and runs Take Back Our Republic, an
advocacy group based in Alabama.

Steve was bit of a brawler as a boy, said his older brother Mike Bannon. "He was
a fighter. He was a guy that believed what he believed." On occasion, Steve
summoned Mike to the neighborhood pool for reinforcement. "He'd get in little
scrapes and come back and get me, and I'd say, 'I wished it wasn't eight guys we
were fighting. If it was two or three, I wouldn't mind.'"

Mike Bannon, eager to rebut charges of racism against his brother, said the boys
took two buses to get to Benedictine, and their parents instructed them to give
up their seats if a woman boarded: "It didn't make any difference if they were
black or white or Indian or Jewish or anything else," he said.

Their mother, Doris, who died many years ago, loved to tell them about sneaking
Jewish friends into her neighborhood pool in Baltimore - past a sign that said
"No Jews Allowed." She later worked on campaigns for Douglas Wilder, a Democrat
who became the first African-American governor of Virginia.

For Mike Bannon, his brother Steve is "a son of the South" who has never shifted
his principles or his character. "He knew who he was in fourth grade and he's
never changed much over the years," he said. "He's very comfortable in his own
skin."

At Virginia Tech, Steve Bannon got his first taste of politics, winning the
Student Government Association presidency in a 1975 race that grew quite heated
after he challenged the status quo. An opponent, Gary Clisham, told the student
newspaper that Mr. Bannon had "immense charisma" but predicted that he would get
nothing done.

After graduation, Mr. Bannon joined the Navy, attended Officer Candidate School
and served two deployments aboard the Foster, a destroyer that took him all over
Asia and into the Persian Gulf. His basketball style - running the length of the
court without passing - earned him a sarcastic nickname, Coast-to-Coast, said
Mr. Masso, his shipmate. Still, he said, Mr. Bannon was popular with the sailors
he led in the engineering department, nearly 50 men, the majority of them
African-American, Hispanic or Asian.

Though his family had Democratic roots, Mr. Bannon, like most of his fellow
officers, was scornful of President Jimmy Carter and entranced by Ronald Reagan.
At Mr. Masso's condo, while they watched the two candidates' debate on
television in 1980, Mr. Bannon could hardly contain his excitement.

"He was pacing my living room, and whenever there was a point-counterpoint, he'd
say, 'Yeah!' like we were watching a boxing match," Mr. Masso said. When Mr.
Bannon heard later that the Reagan election night party was planned for a Los
Angeles hotel, the Century Plaza, he worked the phones to try for tickets.

When he got the brushoff, Mr. Masso said, Mr. Bannon said, "Hey, listen pal, we
just got back from the Persian Gulf." Soon, he had Reagan aide Lyn Nofziger on
the phone saying, "The governor would be honored to have you there." It was 4
a.m. when their group left the victory celebration to return to the ship, Mr.
Masso said.

Both men went on to take Pentagon jobs, and Mr. Bannon earned a master's degree
in international relations at Georgetown at the same time. Mr. Masso thought his
friend might try to get into politics, but he was accepted at Harvard Business
School, and he left the Navy in 1983 to begin a new life.

'Working 100 Hours a Week'

Friends at Harvard and later at Goldman Sachs were aware of Mr. Bannon's
conservative views, but politics was rarely discussed. "He was in mergers and
acquisitions, I was in corporate finance, and we were both working 100 hours a
week," said Scot Vorse, who met Mr. Bannon on their first day at Harvard and
joined Goldman at the same time.

After less than four years, Mr. Bannon left Goldman to start his own firm,
Bannon & Co., which Mr. Vorse soon joined. As head of a scrappy start-up going
up against financial behemoths to get Hollywood deals, Mr. Bannon showed the
fierce competitiveness that would later drive his politics.

"We were the underdog," Mr. Vorse said. "We were competing for the business of
the biggest entertainment companies in the world, and we did well." Mr. Vorse
said Bannon & Co. represented the Saudi businessman Prince Alwaleed bin Talal;
the Italian media tycoon and later the prime minister Silvio Berlusconi;
Samsung; Westinghouse; and other big players.

Mr. Vorse was the detail man, he said. Mr. Bannon "was the visionary, seeing
things before anyone else. He was the rainmaker. He was a leader."

Even as they became successful, Mr. Bannon was not a lavish spender. "He was
driving an eight-year-old Celica convertible," he said.

In fact, Mr. Bannon appears to have gone through some lean moments in the 1990s
- court records show five federal and four state tax liens for amounts from
$10,993 to $136,610. Ms. Jones, his film collaborator, said that when Mr. Bannon
and his second wife, Mary Louise Piccard, separated, he lived for a time in a
spare room at the home of his first wife, Cathleen Houff Jordan. Ms. Piccard had
accused Mr. Bannon of grabbing her wrist and neck during an argument, an
allegation he denied.

But in 1993, as part of the sale of Castle Rock Entertainment to Turner
Broadcasting System, he acquired a share of the royalties from "Seinfeld," a
move that would prove extremely lucrative as the show became a cultural force.

In 1998, Bannon & Co. was acquired by Société Générale, and Mr. Bannon ran a
series of companies working at the intersection of entertainment and finance.

"Very intense, very passionate," said Trevor Drinkwater, who worked with him in
film distribution from 2004 to 2010. "I was impressed that while he was very
right wing, he had a lot of liberal friends." He saw Mr. Bannon's dress evolve
toward the casual, "the flannel shirt over the polo shirt."

Through films, Mr. Bannon was turning his attention back to politics. Tim
Watkins, his co-director on the Reagan documentary, said Mr. Bannon worked from
7 a.m. to 2 a.m. "I've never known him to, say, go to a ballgame," he said. But
Mr. Watkins found his collaborator's combativeness wearying.

"Steve thinks everything has to be a fight," he said. Once, an argument broke
out when he told Mr. Bannon that the rough cut of the film, at two hours and 10
minutes, should be trimmed further. Angry, Mr. Bannon "actually flipped over the
table," Mr. Watkins said.

At first, he recalled, before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, they
intended to make a standard biopic. But the attacks "changed the film
radically," Mr. Watkins said. Mr. Reagan's Cold War battles merged with the
coda, which showed the hijacked airliners hitting the World Trade Center and
people jumping to their deaths.

"Steve crafted a lot of the big ideas," Mr. Watkins said, notably that "life is
a battle of good and evil, and history repeats itself."

Lou Cannon, a Reagan biographer, rejects comparisons of Mr. Reagan and Mr.
Trump. He notes that Mr. Reagan had been governor of California before becoming
president, never demonized opponents and signed a law giving amnesty to three
million undocumented immigrants. Nonetheless, Mr. Watkins sees striking
similarities and is sure Mr. Bannon does, too. In the Reagan memorabilia he
accumulated while working on the film, Mr. Watkins said, he recently found some
lapel stickers.

"Let's Make America Great Again," they read.

Anger at the Elite

When his eldest child, Maureen, got into West Point, Mr. Bannon was thrilled and
joked about switching his allegiance to Army from Navy. He never missed her
volleyball games, and he was at Fort Campbell, Ky., in 2011 when she returned
from a deployment to Iraq. "That was one of the greatest feelings I've had,
seeing my dad when I walked off the plane," she said.

But through his daughter's service, he saw an inequity that fueled his anger at
the privileged Americans among whom he had long worked.

At West Point, "he saw a complete, utter lack of people from the upper economic
levels of American society," said Mr. Schweizer, the conservative writer. "He
thought it was appalling, especially because the elite set so many policies that
sent these kids into war."

Mr. Bannon was put off by the George W. Bush administration's creation in 2003
of the Medicare prescription drug benefit, which he saw as a blatant giveaway to
the pharmaceutical companies. The financial collapse of 2008 and the bailouts
that followed infuriated him, including the devastating effect of the stock
market collapse on the retirement accounts of men like his father, a phone
company retiree.

Mr. Bannon often spoke to friends about his father's "honest work," contrasting
it with the paper-pushing he had seen on Wall Street. "We consider ourselves
middle class, and we think the middle class has been shafted," Mike Bannon said.
"Black, Hispanic, white, everybody. The political class has given them happy
talk but delivered nothing. I think that's what Steve's talking about."

[Video: In 2010, Mr. Bannon spoke at Tea Party gathering in New York City.
Watch on YouTube.]

By the time of a Tea Party gathering in 2010 in New York, Steve Bannon had fully
embraced a class-based diagnosis of the country's woes: "In the last 20 years,
our financial elites and the political class have taken care of themselves and
led our country to the brink of ruin," he said. By contrast, he said, the Tea
Party was backed by "the people who fight our wars, pay our taxes, run our civic
organizations, who build our cities and who hold our neighborhoods together."

Mr. Bannon honed his message as he reached out to politicians, beginning with
his films about Mrs. Bachmann and Ms. Palin. He criticized the conservative
elite, including some of his former business colleagues. "The reason I made
these films is my buddies on Wall Street said, 'These women are a bunch of
bimbos,'" he told a 2011 gathering. "I said, 'I know Governor Palin and
Congresswoman Bachmann - they're every bit as tough and smart as you guys are.'"

At times, Mr. Bannon's rants against the ruling class - in which he is at least
as unsparing of Republicans as of Democrats - strikingly echo populists on the
left. In a revealing 2014 talk via Skype to a Vatican conference, some of his
words might have come from Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts or Mr.
Sanders of Vermont.

"Not one criminal charge has ever been brought to any bank executive associated
with the 2008 crisis," Mr. Bannon fumed. "And in fact, it gets worse. No bonuses
and none of their equity was taken."

But if his scathing economic analysis sometimes seemed to dabble in Marxism, on
other subjects, including race and religion, he made no concessions to political
sensitivities. After Mr. Bannon met Mr. Breitbart at the 2004 screening of "In
the Face of Evil," the two men hit it off, bonding over their similar views and
a common irreverent streak.

Ms. Jones, the film colleague, said that in their years working together, Mr.
Bannon occasionally talked about the genetic superiority of some people and once
mused about the desirability of limiting the vote to property owners.

"I said, 'That would exclude a lot of African-Americans,'" Ms. Jones recalled.
"He said, 'Maybe that's not such a bad thing.' I said, 'But what about Wendy?'"
referring to Mr. Bannon's executive assistant. "He said, 'She's different. She's
family.'"

Mr. Bannon's African-American friend from his Goldman years said that he had
been at pains to defend him in recent years to mutual acquaintances put off
first by Breitbart's reputation and now by Mr. Bannon's association with Mr.
Trump. Most Christmas seasons over the past two decades, he said, Mr. Bannon was
"my only token white guy," or one of two or three, invited to an annual dinner
at a New York City club for nearly a score of African-American friends who work
or worked in finance.

"Now I'm getting a lot of, 'What happened to Steve?'" from concerned black
acquaintances, the friend said. He said he hoped Mr. Bannon - and more
important, Mr. Trump - would more forthrightly denounce the bigots who have
cheered them on. Still, he said, he completely rejects the accusations against
Mr. Bannon.

"Hell, no, he's not a white nationalist," the friend said.

Mr. Bannon took over as executive chairman of Breitbart News in 2012 after Mr.
Breitbart died, playing a hands-on role in assigning, approving and sometimes
dictating changes to articles, according to several former Breitbart employees.
Staff members grew polarized for or against him. Most of them spoke on the
condition of anonymity because they had signed a nondisclosure agreement.

They describe a decentralized operation overseen by Mr. Bannon in two conference
calls a day. Employees rarely had any idea where their peripatetic boss was
because he seemed to be constantly moving between homes, offices or borrowed
premises in Florida, Washington, New York and occasionally Los Angeles or
London.

Mr. Bannon's critics assert that he sometimes put his political preferences
ahead of fairness or even of the facts, directing that stories be rewritten to
his specifications and shrugging off protests that his changes might make them
inaccurate. While Breitbart did not traffic in outright racial slurs, it
specialized in inflammatory coverage of police shootings, immigration and Islam
in ways intended to prick liberal pieties.

Alex Marlow, the editor in chief of Breitbart, denied that Mr. Bannon ever
deliberately permitted an inaccurate story to run on the site. "Breitbart
represents certain values, like conservatism, populism and nationalism, and
Steve Bannon wanted our content to reflect that," Mr. Marlow said. He said the
site has 45 million readers and should not be judged by "a couple thousand
people on Twitter" who express offensive views.

In 2011, as Mr. Trump pondered a 2012 presidential run, David Bossie, a
conservative activist who headed Citizens United, took Mr. Bannon to Trump Tower
in New York to meet him. "They definitely hit it off," said Mr. Bossie, who has
collaborated with Mr. Bannon on a series of films.

Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon had in common a willingness to defy some
small-government conservative notions - for instance, by pushing for a large,
costly infrastructure plan to create jobs.

Mr. Bannon was deeply impressed in 2014 when an insurgent Virginia Republican,
David Brat, managed an unexpected primary race upset of Representative Eric
Cantor, the House majority leader. "He began casting around for other
unconventional candidates to support - people that were not a part of the
establishment and would run populist campaigns," Mr. Schweizer said.

As Mr. Bannon became a steadily more obvious supporter of Mr. Trump, some
Breitbart editors and reporters thought he was turning a news site into a
propaganda platform - though other staff members approved. Mr. Shapiro was the
most outspoken critic, saying that Mr. Bannon had "betrayed" Mr. Breitbart's
mission of "fighting the bullies."

"In my opinion, Steve Bannon is a bully, and has sold out Andrew's mission in
order to back another bully, Donald Trump," Mr. Shapiro wrote in a statement
when he quit Breitbart in March in support of Michelle Fields, a Breitbart
reporter who had been roughly grabbed by Corey Lewandowski, then Mr. Trump's
campaign manager. "He has shaped the company into Trump's personal Pravda."

If the criticism bothered Mr. Bannon, he did not show it. He was already deeply
involved in advising Mr. Trump, and he believed, unlike most pollsters and
pundits, that the chaotic, low-budget campaign had a chance.

One warm evening in August, after Mr. Trump called on Mr. Bannon to take charge
of the campaign, Mr. Caddell, the pollster, met with him at a New York hotel,
sitting outside on a veranda.

Mr. Bannon said he knew the campaign needed discipline, with Mr. Trump more
consistently presenting himself as a populist outsider, Mr. Caddell recalled.
"He said, 'Believe me, I'm going to bring this home. I know what needs to be
done, and I'm going to do it,'" Mr. Caddell said.

Whatever Reagan scholars like Mr. Cannon might say, Mr. Bossie, who also joined
the Trump campaign, said that he and Mr. Bannon discussed Reagan parallels as
they saw huge crowds waiting for hours to hear Mr. Trump. Mr. Reagan had run
when many voters felt the country was threatened at home and abroad, Mr. Bossie
said. "You can see the same things today with Donald Trump - that America has
lost its way and it's lost its strength, and Americans are looking for
leadership," he said.

Kellyanne Conway, who took the job of campaign manager when Mr. Bannon became
chief executive, would later call him "the general" who made many critical
decisions. He pushed for Mr. Trump to visit Flint, Mich., where the water supply
was contaminated with lead, and to appear at a black church. Mr. Bannon also
hugely accelerated the tempo of what he thought had been a 9-to-5 campaign.

After a devastating recording surfaced of Mr. Trump bragging about sexually
assaulting women, it was Mr. Bannon's idea to "race to the bottom" by inviting
women who had accused former President Bill Clinton of sexual abuse to attend a
presidential debate, according to another campaign official. Mr. Bannon believed
airing the competing accusations would allow the campaign to return more quickly
to the core issues of American nationalism and a suffering middle class, the
official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity about internal
discussions.

In the final weeks of the campaign, Mr. Bannon was sure the polls pointing to a
Clinton victory were wrong, other campaign officials said. His family, including
all four siblings and his 95-year-old father, made the trip to New York City for
election night.

For Mr. Bannon, the long night at the New York Hilton was his second
presidential campaign victory gathering, coming 36 years after the first. At
4:30 a.m., Mr. Vorse, his former colleague, reached him to offer
congratulations. He was reminded of their Hollywood days, when "we would have
victories and Steve would celebrate for two seconds, and then it was on to the
next thing."

"He said, 'I got to go because we have a meeting in three hours. I got to hop.'"

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Follow Scott Shane on Twitter.Sharon LaFraniere, Jo Becker and Jacqueline
Williams contributed reporting.


Correction: November 28, 2016, Monday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
Monday's front page about Stephen K. Bannon, the chief strategist for
President-elect Donald J. Trump, misidentified the type of ship on which Mr.
Bannon served. The ship Paul F. Foster was a destroyer, not a guided-missile
destroyer.

PHOTOS: Stephen K. Bannon, left, the chief executive of Donald J. Trump's
campaign, with Mr. Trump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (A1); EARLY
POLITICIAN: Stephen K. Bannon in 1975, when he ran successfully for Virginia
Tech student body president.; ANTI-ELITE: Mr. Bannon at the Virginia Tea Party
convention in 2010 in Richmond. By then he was against "elites." (PHOTOGRAPH BY
TINA FULTZ/ZUMAPRESS.COM); CLOSE TIES: Mr. Bannon with his father, Martin
Bannon, with whom he is close, at home in Richmond, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA JULIA
JONES); THE EMBASSY: Mr. Bannon and Breitbart staff at his Washington townhouse,
known as the Breitbart Embassy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY LIEBMAN) (A14); FROM
REAGAN TO TRUMP: Mr. Bannon, a fan of Ronald Reagan, at a campaign rally for
Donald J. Trump on Oct. 28 in Manchester, N.H. "Trump," a colleague of his said,
"is Steve's Reagan." (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES);
BANNON'S FOES: A protest in Los Angeles against Mr. Bannon's being named chief
strategist of the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -
GETTY IMAGES) (A15)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump's Choice of Stephen Bannon Is Nod to Anti-Washington Base
     ·    Critics See Stephen Bannon, Trump's Pick for Strategist, as Voice of
          Racism
     ·    Stephen Bannon and Breitbart News, in Their Words


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             733 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

'Serious Voter Fraud'? Um, No;
The 2016 Race

BYLINE: NATE COHN

SECTION: UPSHOT

LENGTH: 1239 words



HIGHLIGHT: There are many reasons Donald J. Trump's claim doesn't withstand
scrutiny.


Usually, the burden of proof for an outlandish claim rests on the person making
the assertion. But Donald J. Trump is a master of making big claims, challenging
others to disprove them and benefiting from the debate.

On Sunday, he alleged that Hillary Clinton won the popular vote because of
millions of illegal votes, presumably many of them cast in California, which is
still counting votes and which is providing her with much of her
two-million-plus-vote advantage. He said there was "serious voter fraud in
Virginia, New Hampshire and California."

Mr. Trump has offered no evidence for this statement. That's because there isn't
any.

California's turnout was low.

If there were a few million fraudulent votes, the turnout rate in California
would presumably be quite high. It was not. The turnout rate in California is
projected to finish below the national average, according to estimates by
Michael McDonald of the United States Elections Project. The turnout rate is
based on the state's voting-eligible population, which excludes noncitizens.

If California had a low turnout despite millions of noncitizen voters, its
turnout rate would be among the lowest in the country - edging just above Hawaii
and Utah for third lowest.

Other Republicans did quite well.

You would expect signs of noncitizen voting in the results. Mr. Trump would have
presumably lost the most ground in areas with large noncitizen populations.
Instead, his biggest losses came on the affluent coast: in Orange and Marin
counties, in San Diego and Silicon Valley.

He underperformed Mitt Romney's 2012 showing most in Orange County, a redoubt of
20th-century conservatism that voted Republican in every election from 1936
through 2012. Mr. Trump lost the county by a nine-point margin.

These same Orange County residents voted to re-elect all four of their
Republican members of Congress - not the result one would expect if Mrs. Clinton
were bolstered by a wave of unanimously Democratic illegal votes.

Studies cited don't support it.

When asked on Monday for evidence to support Mr. Trump's assertions, Jason
Miller, his communications director, cited two studies that he said offered
examples of voter fraud: a 2014 Washington Post study on noncitizen voting and a
2012 Pew study on the poor state of voter registration files.

Neither study could plausibly be construed to indicate that millions of illegal
voters cast ballots in this election. Both were conducted well in advance of the
election, and neither supports anything like what Mr. Trump has suggested.

What Mr. Miller referred to as the "Washington Post study" - actually an article
by two professors on The Post's Monkey Cage blog - used a survey to conclude
that 6.4 percent of noncitizen adults voted in the 2008 election.

This study was widely criticized and later debunked. But even taken at face
value, a 6.4 percent noncitizen voting rate would account for only one-fourth of
Mrs. Clinton's margin of victory in the popular vote.

And there is little reason to think that 6.4 percent of noncitizens voted in the
2008 election. The finding is based on the Cooperative Congressional Election
Study, a huge study of tens of thousands of respondents. The 6.4 percent is
based on just 21 survey respondents who indicated that they were noncitizens and
voted.

That tiny number of respondents out of the tens of thousands who took the survey
hints at a different explanation: measurement error.

Sometimes people make mistakes when they take a survey. They might misunderstand
the question, accidentally give a wrong response to an interviewer or press the
wrong button online. The interviewer can make a mistake, and record the wrong
answer. This usually isn't a significant problem, but it becomes one if you're
trying to find an odd, small finding in a survey of 30,000 people. Even if 99.9
percent of people answered a question correctly in the survey, there would still
be 30 erroneous answers out of 30,000.

It turns out that number isn't far off. The study is a panel survey, so many
people had been interviewed in previous years. A comparison of their previous
answers can help give a sense of just how often people might make a mistake. In
2012, 20 of the self-described noncitizens surveyed reported that they had been
citizens when they took the survey in 2010. But that's unlikely - very few
people lose their citizenship.

What's more, a similar number, 36 people, said they were noncitizens in 2010 but
citizens in 2012. That's possible - since people can obtain citizenship - but
the finding is well above the rate of naturalization.

This phenomenon could explain all of the noncitizen voting in the congressional
election study. Here's the clincher: There were zero voters among the
respondents who indicated that they were noncitizens in both 2010 and 2012.

Mr. Miller's citation of aPew Research study on the quality of voter
registration files is far less salient. Yes, there are many millions of people
who remain registered to vote after they have moved or died: Very few people
remove themselves from the voter rolls when they move, or as they lie on their
deathbed. But this has nothing to do with noncitizen voting, and it is not a
meaningful contributor to voter fraud.

Allegations of fraud by the left doesn't mean fraud has occurred.

The political right has not been alone in making unsubstantiated claims about
election or voter fraud this year. Some supporters of Bernie Sanders did the
same thing in the primaries. The Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein
is pushing for recounts in Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin, though no
recount has ever overturned a lead as large as Mr. Trump's in these states.

Last week, a New York Magazine article made a splash by saying that some
computer scientists believed there was evidence of voting irregularities in
Wisconsin, based on Mr. Trump's stronger showing in counties with electronic
voting. This appears to be a mischaracterization of their views, but the view
expressed in the article doesn't hold up either. Mr. Trump's edge in
electronic-voting counties can be explained by their demographics: The counties
are less educated and whiter than the parts of the state with paper ballots.

Ultimately, there's not much that's odd about the results. Mrs. Clinton
underperformed in Wisconsin, but also in Iowa and Minnesota - states with paper
ballots and, in Minnesota's case, a Democratic government. She fared well in
California, but gained just as much in Texas, a state with Republican
government.

There's a dominant pattern: Mr. Trump's strength with white working-class voters
helped him a lot in crucial battleground states like Michigan and Pennsylvania.
Mrs. Clinton had strength with Hispanic voters and well-educated white voters,
but it helped her more in noncompetitive states, like Texas and California.
These demographic patterns help explain the results without any need to suspect
voter fraud.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.

PHOTO: An Election Day scene in San Francisco. Donald J. Trump said there was
serious voter fraud in California, among other states. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM
WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Election Facts to Keep Handy for Holiday Discussions
     ·    How Did Donald Trump Win Over So Many Obama Voters?
     ·    As American as Apple Pie? The Rural Vote's Disproportionate Slice of
          Power


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             734 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Challenging the Boss in Public? For Kellyanne Conway, It's Part of the Job

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR and MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1089 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ms. Conway's criticism of Mitt Romney was expected to draw fury from
President-elect Donald J. Trump. But she is not a typical aide.


WASHINGTON - Kellyanne Conway, one of President-elect Donald J. Trump's senior
advisers, was about to board a flight back to New York on Monday morning when
she caught a glimpse of the headline crawling across television screens in the
terminal.

"SOURCES: TRUMP 'FURIOUS' OVER CONWAY COMMENTS ABOUT ROMNEY," screamed the
headline on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program.

Ms. Conway quickly dialed Mr. Trump, as well as Jared Kushner, his son-in-law
and confidant, seeking reassurance that the headline was wrong.

She got it.

Ms. Conway, the Republican pollster and strategist who managed Mr. Trump's
improbable campaign, said the president-elect was neither surprised nor angered
by her public excoriation a day earlier of former Gov. Mitt Romney of
Massachusetts, a top prospect for secretary of state in the Trump
administration.

"When he's upset with someone, they know it," Ms. Conway said in a telephone
interview late Monday afternoon. While her public display may have bothered some
members of Mr. Trump's transition team, by all accounts, her close relationship
with the next occupant of the Oval Office remains secure.

Mr. Trump, in a statement emailed Monday evening by his spokeswoman, Hope Hicks,
said: "Kellyanne came to me and asked whether or not she could go public with
her thoughts on the matter. I encouraged her to do so. Most importantly she
fully acknowledged there is only one person that makes the decision. She has
always been a tremendous asset and that will continue."

To those on the outside of the Trump transition, her remarks on Sunday had all
the hallmarks of a political staff member gone rogue. Amid reports of intense
closed-door deliberations over who should be secretary of state, Ms. Conway had
seemed intent on committing a heretical political act by an aide: boxing in her
boss. She wrote on Twitter about a "deluge" of concerns from conservatives and
appeared repeatedly on television, insisting that a Romney appointment would be
seen by Mr. Trump's supporters as a "betrayal."

But little in Mr. Trump's universe is simple. In fact, people familiar with the
dynamic inside Trump Tower - who were granted anonymity to discuss the unusual
process that Mr. Trump has allowed for his transition - said Ms. Conway had been
neither insubordinate nor acting directly on the president-elect's instruction.

By denouncing Mr. Romney even as Mr. Trump was preparing for their second
meeting, this time over dinner on Tuesday, Ms. Conway was simply doing what she
knows Mr. Trump likes: encouraging a public airing of conflicting views when he
is unsure of what path to take.

"The president-elect would never need to turn on a TV station to find out how I
feel about anything or anyone - he would already know it," she said, noting that
she had not said anything publicly that she had not also shared with Mr. Trump
privately. "It would be a mistake to think that I communicate with him through
the TV."

What some saw over the weekend as an act of political defiance by Ms. Conway -
undermining a potential cabinet nominee - was seen by Mr. Trump as a
demonstration of loyalty, according to people who had talked to him. Her
criticism of Mr. Romney articulated a view her boss had at times expressed: that
Mr. Romney had tried to "hurt" him during the campaign and had yet to fully
acknowledge it or apologize.

"There was the Never Trump movement, and then there was Gov. Mitt Romney," she
said on ABC, adding later, "I only wish Governor Romney had been as critical of
Hillary Clinton" during the general election. During the primaries, Mr. Romney
called Mr. Trump a "fraud" and a "phony."

A decision on the secretary of state position could come this week, although Mr.
Trump sent more mixed signals on Monday after interviewing retired Gen. David H.
Petraeus for the post. "Was very impressed!" Mr. Trump posted on Twitter after
the hourlong meeting.

But if it is still unclear who will lead the State Department, it is virtually
certain that Ms. Conway will remain close to Mr. Trump, whether as an
influential West Wing aide or, in a move that seems more likely, as an outside
adviser with guaranteed access to the president. After initially working for a
"super PAC" supporting Senator Ted Cruz's presidential campaign, she has become
one of the few calming influences on Mr. Trump, and someone he sees as intensely
loyal to him.

Her allies describe her job as "the Kellyanne role," a position in which the
precise title does not completely capture the duties she is performing or the
sway she has. Ms. Conway has a direct line to Mr. Trump, and she has said that
he is supportive of seeing her on television. The president-elect is also well
aware that she is one of his only female surrogates, and one who has become his
ambassador to the news media.

"She's the first person who was able to develop a strategy internally and
articulate that strategy externally," said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster
who worked with Ms. Conway in the early 1990s. "She put a context to everything
where there was no context before."

Mr. Trump made clear throughout the campaign when he was unhappy with those
speaking for him on television. Some cable bookers have been quietly told not to
refer to someone as a "surrogate" for the campaign on a given day if the person
has fallen out of favor.

On a conference call with top supporters at one point, Mr. Trump denounced some
of his own aides and said they did not speak for him.

That is not a problem that Ms. Conway has encountered.

Ms. Conway said on Monday that she had spoken with Mr. Trump a number of times
over the weekend, on a range of topics. She had several conversations with him,
she said, about how to be "a face of the administration," although what that
precisely means remains unclear.

And so far, her style of service on Mr. Trump's behalf has left many who are
used to a more traditional definition of spokeswoman confused about what to
expect.

Joe Scarborough, the MSNBC host whose show is closely watched by Mr. Trump,
accused Ms. Conway of trying to "intimidate the president-elect," adding that
"now all world leaders will be watching to see if a President Trump can be
bullied by his staff."

Ms. Conway responded to Mr. Scarborough on Twitter by saying, "Repeating 100th
time decision is his & I'll respect it," and adding, "I already have the job I
want."

PHOTO: Kellyanne Conway, a senior adviser to President-elect Donald J. Trump, on
Monday at Trump Tower. "When he's upset with someone, they know it," she said.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             735 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Vote Recount Push Advances, but Reversing Trump's Win Is Unlikely

BYLINE: STEVE EDER and TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1104 words



HIGHLIGHT: In Wisconsin, elections officials said on Monday that a recount of
the state's nearly three million votes would most likely begin on Thursday.


President-elect Donald J. Trump is well into filling out his cabinet and picking
key advisers. But a move to challenge the vote tallies in three swing states -
an extreme long shot to reverse his Electoral College majority - is advancing in
the background, creating a noisy distraction on Mr. Trump's Twitter feed and
raising last-ditch hopes of some Hillary Clinton supporters.

In Wisconsin, elections officials said on Monday that a recount of the state's
nearly three million votes would most likely begin on Thursday. In Pennsylvania,
Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential candidate, who initiated the recounts,
filed a legal challenge of the results in state court. And the Stein campaign
said it planned to request a recount in Michigan on Wednesday.

Neither Ms. Stein nor the Clinton campaign has found evidence of election
tampering in any of the three states, where Mr. Trump beat Mrs. Clinton by a
combined margin of only about 100,000 votes. But once Ms. Stein seized on the
issue last week, the Clinton campaign said it, too, would join in the efforts to
seek recounts.

Mrs. Clinton has been urged by her supporters to challenge the results, but she
has done so only in a passive way. A campaign lawyersaid that her team would
"participate" in a manner that ensured fairness, but that it had "not uncovered
any actionable evidence" of hacking or other interference.

The Clinton campaign will pay to have its own lawyers present at recount sites,
but it is not contributing money to the effort, campaign officials have said.

Ms. Stein said she had invited every candidate, including Mr. Trump, to join her
calls for recounts, but she is not seeking money or legal input from the
remnants of the Clinton campaign.

"We would not want to be collaborating with the Clinton campaign on this," Ms.
Stein said.

Mr. Trump's spokesman, Jason Miller, said in an email that the "mere talk of a
recount by someone who got less than 1%" - Ms. Stein - "is a joke."

The recount push irked Mr. Trump, who said on Twitter that Democrats were
joining what he called a "scam" by the Green Party to "fill up their coffers by
asking for impossible recounts."

The president-elect also returned to the issue of voter fraud over the weekend,
advancing the baseless charge that "millions" of people voted illegally.

He singled out California, Virginia and New Hampshire for "serious voter fraud"
- prompting a rebuff from Alex Padilla, the California secretary of state, who
said on Twitter that Mr. Trump's "reckless tweets are inappropriate and
unbecoming of a president-elect."

In a span of less than an hour on Monday night, Mr. Trump wrote five Twitter
posts in which he asserted without providing evidence that there had been voter
fraud, criticized journalists for not doing their jobs and said the fraud had
benefited Mrs. Clinton.

Ms. Stein, who finished a distant fourth in the popular vote on Nov. 8, had
raised about $6.3 million of a $7 million goal as of Monday to cover the costs
of three recounts.

To begin the recount in Wisconsin, the state must receive payment of $3.5
million by Tuesday afternoon to cover the estimated costs, the Wisconsin
Elections Commission said on Monday. The commission approved a schedule, which
includes county clerks and canvass members being briefed on procedures on
Wednesday morning, with the recount beginning Thursday and being completed by
Dec. 12 and certified on Dec. 13. The Electoral College votes on Dec. 19.

Ms. Stein asked that the recount of ballots be done entirely by hand, but the
elections commission rejected that request. It instead allowed counties to
determine whether the ballots should be counted manually or with tabulating
equipment. Ms. Stein said on Monday that she would sue to demand the hand count.

In all three states, the Stein campaign is seeking to answer the question of
whether the vote was hacked by introducing malicious software into voting
machines. The possibility was raised by J. Alex Halderman, a computer science
professor at the University of Michigan. Although no evidence of hacking exists,
Ms. Stein wants to compare paper records of votes with electronic tallies of
voting machines, and to subject touch-screen machines (which do not leave a
paper trail) to forensic analysis.

In Pennsylvania, the hurdles are higher in terms of the number of votes
necessary to reverse Mr. Trump's victory, as well as the procedures for
initiating a recount.

The state, where Mr. Trump holds a lead of 70,638 votes, or 1.1 percent, allows
any three voters to petition to recount their local precinct. But despite a call
on Sunday from Ms. Stein on Facebook for thousands of Pennsylvanians to file the
paperwork, in many cases the deadlines have come and gone, according to the
Pennsylvania Department of State.

There are more than 9,000 voting precincts in Pennsylvania. Wanda Murren, a
spokeswoman for the State Department, said she was aware of petitions in only a
handful of the state's 67 counties.

The Stein campaign said that as of Monday, voters had filed recount petitions in
120 precincts, including more than 70 in Philadelphia, where the county has not
yet certified the vote and petitions can still be accepted, according to Ilann
Maazel, a lawyer for the campaign.

In Michigan, a candidate can request a recount by citing fraud or errors, said
Fred Woodhams, a spokesman for the Michigan secretary of state. But other
candidates, like Mr. Trump, could potentially object to such a request by
appealing to the Board of State Canvassers.

At a meeting on Monday, where the canvassers certified the election results, a
representative for Ms. Stein said her campaign planned to request a complete
hand recount by a deadline on Wednesday. The campaign would need to pay
estimated costs of $800,000, and a recount could start as early as Friday.

"People will be working well after 5 p.m. and on the weekends," Mr. Woodhams
said. "It will certainly be very challenging, and potentially it could be
expensive. The $800,000 will cover a lot of the work, but potentially not
everything."

Get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing
newsletter.

PHOTOS: A polling place on Nov. 8 in Georgetown, Wis. A recount of the state's
nearly three million votes will probably begin on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICKI
KOHL/TELEGRAPH HERALD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS); Jill Stein, the Green Party
presidential candidate, has called for recounts in Michigan, Pennsylvania and
Wisconsin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Officially Wins Michigan Amid Calls for a Recount
     ·    In Betsy DeVos for Education, Trump Taps Into Michigan Royalty


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             736 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Supreme Court Agenda in the Trump Era? A Justice Seems to Supply One;
Sidebar

BYLINE: ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1088 words



HIGHLIGHT: At an energized conservative legal gathering, Justice Samuel A. Alito
Jr. suggested that only resolve on the right could rescue free speech, religious
liberty and gun rights.


WASHINGTON - A week after the presidential election, the leaders of the
conservative legal movement gathered here for the annual convention of the
Federalist Society. The mood was by turns somber and giddy.

The meeting had been planned as a memorial to the legacy of Justice Antonin
Scalia, who died in February. But the surprise election of Donald J. Trump
energized the affair.

Instead of talk of opportunities lost, the hallways of the Mayflower Hotel
buzzed with ambitious plans. There was general satisfaction with the 21
candidates on Mr. Trump's list of potential Supreme Court nominees, many of whom
were present.

If one of them succeeds Justice Scalia, the Supreme Court will again be
dominated by Republican appointees, though Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, a
moderating force, will retain the decisive vote in most of the closely divided
cases.

Soon, though, given actuarial realities, Justice Kennedy's place at the court's
ideological center could disappear. He is 80. One liberal justice, Ruth Bader
Ginsburg, is 83, and another, Justice Stephen G. Breyer, is 78. Should Mr. Trump
also name a replacement for any of those three, the conservative legal movement
will have captured the Supreme Court.

That reality was lurking in the background when Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. gave
the convention's opening address. Justice Alito is, along with Justice Clarence
Thomas, one of the court's two most conservative members. He is also a fine
lawyer and a savvy strategist, and his talk seemed to set out an agenda for the
Supreme Court in the Trump era.

"I want you to think about some constitutional fault lines," he told an
overflowing ballroom, with people standing four deep in the balcony.

"In places in the country where they have those lines," he said, "sometimes the
earth starts to tremor, and people get worried about what's coming."

He focused on the first two amendments in the Bill of Rights, suggesting that
only conservative resolve could rescue free speech, religious liberty and gun
rights from liberal attempts to undermine them.

His tone was one of embattlement and occasional grievance, and his remarks were
punctuated by wry and rueful humor. He mixed constitutional principle with
cutting comments on the culture wars.

Like Mr. Trump, Justice Alito had little patience with perceived political
correctness. Justice Scalia grew up in Queens, in an ethnically diverse
neighborhood, Justice Alito said, calling it "a melting pot."

But, he added, "I will not say that, because I know that, according to the
powers that be at the University of California's university system, the phrase
'melting pot' is a microaggression."

He was being sarcastic, and his larger point was that the American left has lost
sight of the value of free speech. He quoted a famous passage from a 1943
opinion from Justice Robert H. Jackson: "If there is any fixed star in our
constitutional constellation, it is that no official, high or petty, can
prescribe what shall be orthodox in politics, nationalism, religion or other
matters of opinion."

That opinion, which struck down a law requiring students to recite the Pledge of
Allegiance, was thought to be a liberal free-speech victory. Things have
changed, Justice Alito said, and he seemed to allude to the motto on the hats
Mr. Trump wore on the campaign trail.

"On college campuses, both public and private, a new orthodoxy rules," Justice
Alito said. "Suppose that a student were to test Justice Jackson's proposition
today by wearing an article of attire supporting a political candidate who was
unpopular among the students and professors by proclaiming that the United
States is a great and a good country and by expressing certain traditional
religious beliefs."

"How would that go over?" Justice Alito asked.

He said something similar was at work in an effort to overturn the Citizens
United decision - which allowed unlimited corporate and union spending in
elections - through a constitutional amendment that would allow the regulation
of such spending, except for spending by media corporations.

"More than 40 senators have proposed an amendment to the First Amendment, which
in itself is an important development," Justice Alito said. "And what would that
amendment do? It would have the effect of granting greater free speech rights to
an elite group, those who control the media, than to everybody else."

He moved on to another clause of the First Amendment, here invoking Bob Dylan.
"Freedom of religion is in even greater danger," Justice Alito said. "I am
reminded of a song by the latest recipient of the Nobel Prize for Literature:
'It's not dark yet, but it's getting there.'"

Justice Alito said that even conservative victories remained in peril. He paid
tribute to what he called "perhaps Justice Scalia's most important majority
opinion," District of Columbia v. Heller, which in 2008 interpreted the Second
Amendment to guarantee an individual right to own guns. The vote was 5 to 4.

"Heller, as I am sure you know, holds that the Second Amendment actually means
what it says," Justice Alito said. But he suggested that the right could easily
be undermined.

"Justice Breyer's dissent provides a road map for denaturing Heller without
actually overruling it," Justice Alito said. Justice Breyer had proposed a
balancing test to decide whether gun control laws passed constitutional muster,
one that took account of a right to self-defense on one hand and public safety
on the other.

Justice Alito said balancing tests were a dangerous business.

"As Nino told us more than once," Justice Alito said, referring to Justice
Scalia by his nickname, "if a judge uses a balancing test, then the balance will
almost always come out exactly the way the judge wants it to come out."

At the conclusion of his survey of constitutional fault lines, Justice Alito
received a thunderous ovation. His audience, invigorated, streamed into the
hallways and got to work.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter @adamliptak.

PHOTO: Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. at the Federalist Society's convention this
month in Washington, where his address covered "constitutional fault lines" the
country is facing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump's Supreme Court List: Ivy League? Out. The Heartland? In.
     ·    What the Trump Presidency Means for the Supreme Court
     ·    Justice Thomas, Reticent on the Bench, Is Effusive About His Time
          There
     ·    Judges Who Are Elected Like Politicians Tend to Act Like Them


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             737 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

David Petraeus, Secretary of State Candidate, Meets With Trump

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1323 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Petraeus, a retired general and former C.I.A. director, has
emerged as a new contender after bitter internal feuding over the State
Department post.


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald J. Trump met on Monday with David H.
Petraeus, the highly decorated but scandal-scarred former military commander,
who has emerged as a new contender for secretary of state after days of bitter
internal feuding over who will get the coveted post.

Mr. Petraeus, a retired general and former C.I.A. director, spent an hour with
Mr. Trump at his offices in Trump Tower in Manhattan and told reporters
afterward that the president-elect had given him a tutorial on world affairs.

"He basically walked us around the world," Mr. Petraeus said. "Showed a great
grasp of a variety of the challenges that are out there and some of the
opportunities as well. Very good conversation, and we'll see where it goes from
here." In a Twitterpost 15 minutes later, Mr. Trump said, "Just met with General
Petraeus - was very impressed!"

Mr. Trump spent the day in back-to-back meetings after a quiet Thanksgiving
weekend at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla. In addition to seeing Mr.
Petraeus, he met with Frances Fragos Townsend, a Homeland Security official in
the Bush administration, and with David A. Clarke Jr., the Milwaukee County
sheriff. Both are candidates for secretary of Homeland Security.

As he was leaving Trump Tower on Monday, Vice President-elect Mike Pence said,
"There will be a number of very important announcements tomorrow."

Mr. Trump has already conferred with the other two leading candidates for the
State Department post: Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012
Republican presidential nominee, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former New York City
mayor. He was scheduled to meet Mr. Romney again for dinner on Tuesday.

But Mr. Trump's deliberations have become bogged down, with people in his camp
deeply divided over whether he should choose Mr. Giuliani, a steadfast loyalist
with a record of problematic business dealings, or Mr. Romney, an establishment
figure who denounced him during the campaign and has been publicly opposed by
some of Mr. Trump's closest advisers.

Mr. Petraeus, 64, has his own black mark: He was prosecuted for mishandling
classified material in a scandal stemming from an extramarital affair with his
biographer. During the relationship, he turned over his confidential diary to
the biographer, Paula Broadwell, leading the F.B.I. to recommend that he be
charged with a felony. He pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor.

If he is nominated, that could raise hurdles for Mr. Petraeus with Democrats and
even some Republicans at his Senate confirmation hearing. It could also prompt
the intelligence agencies to recommend against giving him a security clearance,
though legal experts said the president could override that.

At a minimum, it would open Mr. Trump to charges of hypocrisy. He made Hillary
Clinton's handling of classified information, through her use of a private email
address and computer server, the centerpiece of his attacks on her character and
trustworthiness. The director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, has said that Mr.
Petraeus's transgressions were more serious than Mrs. Clinton's.

"The Petraeus case was a classic security breach that rightly resulted in
criminal action," said Richard W. Painter, the chief White House ethics lawyer
from 2005 to 2007. "It just reeks of hypocrisy."

Steven Aftergood, who directs the project on government secrecy at the
Federation of American Scientists, said, "It suggests that much of the campaign
hoopla directed against Hillary Clinton by Mr. Trump was manufactured, and not
sincere." But he added: "I don't think it's a fatal flaw. One could imagine more
problematic candidates."

Ethics officials who worked in the Obama administration agreed. Norman L. Eisen,
who served as President Obama's ethics counsel during his transition and at the
White House, said he believed that Mr. Petraeus had paid a price for his
misdeeds and deserved a second chance.

"I do believe that at the career level, there would be reservations," Mr. Eisen
said. "But at the policy-maker level, there will be a judgment that if the
president deems it worthy, he should get the clearances he needs. My own
judgment, for what it's worth, is that I would support it."

Mr. Petraeus, whose friends said he was eager for the job, would bring obvious
qualifications to the State Department. He is a politically astute military
commander with experience in Iraq and Afghanistan, two conflicts that will
immediately confront the new president, as well as a Ph.D. in international
relations from Princeton. His C.I.A. experience gave him broad exposure to
America's clandestine operations.

Gen. Jack Keane, a former Army vice chief of staff, said he had recommended Mr.
Petraeus to Mr. Trump in a meeting two weeks ago, when Mr. Trump was sounding
General Keane out for the job of defense secretary. General Keane was a mentor
to Mr. Petraeus, and saved his life in 1991 when Mr. Petraeus was shot
accidentally during a live-fire exercise.

"He has an extraordinary portfolio, having run two theaters of war and directed
the Central Intelligence Agency," General Keane said. "That level of experience
would be invaluable to the president, given the fact that he is a strategic
thinker, is well versed on the issues of the day, and has an amazing network of
heads of state and foreign and defense ministers."

Mr. Petraeus was a central player in the George W. Bush and Obama
administrations, winning renown for his leadership of the troop surge in Iraq
and helping persuade Mr. Obama to pursue a similar counterinsurgency strategy,
with more mixed results, in Afghanistan.

He would bring a worldview to the job of secretary of state that is more in line
with the thinking of its current occupant, John Kerry, than with Mr. Trump's.
While Mr. Trump says the United States has spent trillions in the Middle East
and gotten a "disaster" in return, Mr. Petraeus has argued that the investment
in Iraq is finally paying off, though the future remains uncertain. He has
advocated continued engagement in the region, warning that after the Islamic
State is gone, another extremist group will replace it.

Mr. Petraeus is still frequently cited for his work as the editor of "The U.S.
Army/Marine Corps Counterinsurgency Field Manual," which laid out the
troop-intensive strategy used by Mr. Bush in Iraq and Mr. Obama in Afghanistan.
During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump opposed such intensive American
engagement and said the United States should stop nation-building overseas.

After taking direct command of the war in Afghanistan in 2010, Mr. Petraeus
retired from the military and returned to Washington to head the C.I.A. In that
role, he pushed - along with Mrs. Clinton, then secretary of state - to supply
weapons to moderate rebels in Syria.

He cultivated close ties with Mrs. Clinton and might well have turned up on
lists of her potential cabinet picks had she won the election - a factor that
might hinder him with some in Mr. Trump's circle. Because he was one of the few
military officers of his generation to rise to national celebrity, there was
even speculation that Mr. Petraeus might someday run for the White House
himself.

Since leaving the government, Mr. Petraeus has worked for a New York investment
firm, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, and held an array of fellowships and
teaching appointments around the country.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from
New York.

PHOTO: David H. Petraeus, center, with Anthony Scaramucci, a member of
President-elect Donald J. Trump's transition team, at Trump Tower on Monday in
Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Donald Trump's Threat to Close Door Reopens Old Wounds in Cuba
     ·    Trump Meets Petraeus as Secretary of State Sweepstakes Heat Up
     ·    Combative, Populist Steve Bannon Found His Man in Donald Trump


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             738 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Trump Officially Wins Michigan Amid Calls for a Recount

BYLINE: NIRAJ CHOKSHI

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 166 words



HIGHLIGHT: Donald J. Trump defeated Hillary Clinton in the state by 10,704
votes, or less than a quarter of a percentage point, according to official
figures.


Donald J. Trump was officially declared the winner of the presidential election
in Michigan on Monday amid calls for a recount there and in two other states.

Mr. Trump, a Republican, defeated Hillary Clinton, his Democratic opponent, by
10,704 votes in the state, or less than a quarter of a percentage point, the
Michigan Board of State Canvassers announced, nearly three weeks after the Nov.
8 election.

The results, should they hold, bring his Electoral College vote total to 306,
well beyond the 270 needed to win. Mrs. Clinton has 232. Michigan contributed 16
electoral votes to Mr. Trump's total.

News of his victory in Michigan came as Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate,
said she planned to call for a recount there after pursuing recounts in two
other states. Wisconsin officials approved a timeline for a recount on Monday,
and Ms. Stein is also suing for a recount in Pennsylvania, according to The
Associated Press.

Mr. Trump won all three states by a combined total of about 100,000 votes.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             739 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump's Lies About the Popular Vote;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 761 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president-elect seems to feel threatened that more Americans
voted for Hillary Clinton.


One big fear in the weeks leading up to the presidential election was that
Donald Trump would try to delegitimize the results by claiming rampant voter
fraud - a bogus specter he had raised throughout the campaign, particularly as
his polling numbers got worse.

In that scenario, of course, Mr. Trump was the loser. No one imagined he would
say the election was rigged if he won. And yet here we are.

On Sunday, President-elect Trump unleashed a barrage of tweets complaining about
calls for recounts or vote audits in several closely contested states, and
culminating in this message: "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a
landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted
illegally."

In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally - Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016

This is a lie, part of Mr. Trump's pattern, stretching back many years, of
disregard for indisputable facts. There is no evidence of illegal voting on even
a small scale anywhere in the country, let alone a systematic conspiracy
involving "millions." But this is the message that gets hammered relentlessly by
right-wing propaganda sites like InfoWars, which is run by a conspiracy theorist
who claims the Sandy Hook school massacre was a hoax - and whose absurdities Mr.
Trump has often shouted through his megaphone, which will shortly bear the
presidential seal. Mr. Trump added more fuel to the fire with the false claim of
"serious voter fraud" in California, Virginia and New Hampshire - all states
that went for Hillary Clinton.

In addition to insulting law-abiding voters everywhere, these lies about fraud
threaten the foundations of American democracy. They have provided the
justification for state voter-suppression laws around the country, and they
could give the Trump administration a pretext to roll back voting rights on a
national scale.

And why is Mr. Trump so hung up on the popular vote in the first place? After
all, he won where it counts - in the Electoral College. And yet, in the three
weeks since his victory, Mr. Trump has already admitted at leasttwice that he
would prefer the presidency be determined by the popular vote, and not by 538
electors. It's clear he feels threatened by Mrs. Clinton's popular-vote lead -
now more than 2.3 million and expected to exceed 2.5 million; as a percentage of
the electorate, that is a wider margin than five presidents enjoyed. With
support for third-party candidates added in, 54 percent of voters rejected Mr.
Trump.

So maybe his touchiness is understandable. Like most people, Mr. Trump senses
the fundamental unfairness of awarding the presidency to the loser of the
popular vote. In fact, he made that argument himself, back on election night in
2012, calling the Electoral College "a disaster for democracy" when he believed,
incorrectly, that President Obama would lose the popular vote and still win
re-election. (In recent weeks he's changed his tune, calling it a "genius"
idea.) What Mr. Trump may not know, given his lack of interest in American
history, is that the Electoral College was designed specifically to enhance the
influence of white voters in Southern states, which were allowed to factor in
their large slave populations.

Today the Electoral College continues to give an outsized benefit to smaller and
less populous states - a Wyoming resident's vote weighs 3.6 times more than a
Californian's. So the less populous states will never agree to amend it out of
the Constitution. But states may allocate their electoral votes however they
choose, and that opens the door to greater equity without changing the
Constitution - namely, the National Popular Vote interstate compact. This is an
agreement among a group of states to award all their electoral votes to the
winner of the national popular vote. Eleven states and the District of Columbia
have already adopted it, representing 165 electoral votes. The compact would
take effect once states representing a majority of electoral votes, currently
270, signed on - ensuring that the national popular-vote winner became
president.

We can't expect Mr. Trump to throw his weight behind this initiative, given his
new support for the Electoral College. But if he's truly worried about the
legitimacy of the 2016 election, why doesn't he call for a recount?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICOLE XU)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             740 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

California Official Says Trump's Claim of Voter Fraud Is 'Absurd'

BYLINE: ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 469 words



HIGHLIGHT: Alex Padilla, the secretary of state in California, replied to Mr.
Trump's allegation on Twitter, saying claims of "voter fraud in California and
elsewhere are absurd."


LOS ANGELES - When President-elect Donald J. Trumpclaimed on Twitter that he was
losing the popular vote because of major fraud by millions of voters, one of the
states he pointed to was California, where the latest voting returns showed
Hillary Clinton, the Democrat, crushing Mr. Trump.

But Mr. Trump's baseless claim led to a furious reaction from California's top
election official, Alex Padilla, the secretary of state, this weekend. Mr.
Padilla asserted that there was no evidence for the claim by the
president-elect, and denounced Mr. Trump for what he said was unpresidential
behavior.

"His unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in California and elsewhere are
absurd," Mr. Padilla posted on Twitter. "His reckless tweets are inappropriate
and unbecoming of a president-elect."

This state has historically been slow to count ballots, a reflection of both its
vast size and inefficiencies in many county voting operations. Given the fact
that this is an overwhelmingly Democratic state, that has meant that Mrs.
Clinton's total vote count has grown steadily as ballots were tallied, adding to
a national lead of close to two million votes.

As of Saturday, Mrs. Clinton had 8.1 million votes in California, compared with
4.2 million for Mr. Trump, according to the secretary of state's office. It was
not clear when the vote count might be concluded.

The count, and outcome, has been no surprise to anyone in a state with a history
of slow vote-counting. Officials in both parties had predicted this would happen
as early as election night.

Given California's long Democratic history, it was never in play during this
presidential election. But as the nation's most populated state, it tends to
have a significant influence on final national voting margins, as is apparently
the case this year.

Mr. Trump signaled out three states in his post of Twitter on "serious voter
fraud" - Virginia, New Hampshire and California. He offered no evidence to back
up the claim.

His remarks came as he denounced calls for a recount in three states that he won
by relatively small margins: Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. Jill Stein,
who was the Green Party candidate for president, said that she would move for a
recount. Aides to Mrs. Clinton said they would cooperate with the effort, even
as they made it clear they thought it would not change the outcome.

Mr. Padilla is the highest-ranking Latino elected to state office in California.
Mr. Trump's poor showing here, many Democrats and Republicans said, came in no
small part because of his attacks on what he described as the threat of illegal
immigration - particularly by Mexicans. About 40 percent of California's
population is Latino.

"It appears that Mr. Trump is troubled by the fact that a growing majority of
Americans did not vote for him," Mr. Padilla said.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             741 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump's Response to Plans for a Recount;
Letters

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 604 words



HIGHLIGHT: Readers differ on whether recounts should take place and how The
Times reported the news.


To the Editor:

Re "Trump Promotes a Baseless Claim on Illegal Voting" (front page, Nov. 28):

Donald Trump claims that millions of people voted illegally. If he truly
believes that, then he is duty-bound to demand an immediate recount and see to
it that the election was carried out legally. If not, then he should recognize
that this is no longer the campaign and that he can no longer simply make stuff
up any time he feels like it. Enough.

JEREMY DRIESEN

New York

To the Editor:

During the election campaign, when Donald Trump was asked if he would accept the
election results, he said "I'll keep you in suspense," and for this he was
pilloried mercilessly by The Times and the rest of the liberal media. Hillary
Clinton said she was "horrified."

Now that the election is over, the shoe is on the other foot, and it is Hillary
Clinton and the liberals who are not accepting the clear results. However, now
there is no outcry, no expression of outrage from The Times and the other
liberal media.

MAX WISOTSKY

Highland Park, N.J.

To the Editor:

As a voter who supported Hillary Clinton throughout the campaign, I think that
her participation in a recount is misguided. At this point, rather than carrying
out a sense of duty to the millions of us who voted for her, Mrs. Clinton and
her supporters should be working to help the country heal, accept what we cannot
change, and find ways to mitigate the damage of a Trump presidency.

ANNE-MARIE HISLOP

Chicago

To the Editor:

Thank you, New York Times, for your front-page headline: "Trump Promotes a
Baseless Claim on Illegal Voting." Words like "baseless," right up high, derail
attempts to create fake news.

My husband and I subscribed to your paper right after the election because we
believe that a free and independent press is vital, and we want to support it.
Thanks for keeping it real and honest!

LAURA HOLMES

Brewster, N.Y.

To the Editor:

As a former newspaper reporter, I am saddened by the continuing blur between
editorial commentary and news coverage. In another age, the word "baseless" in
your front-page headline would have been reserved for the editorial page, where
it belongs.

The Times and other respectable news organizations should resist the temptation
to join others (most notably Fox News) as they drop their conclusions into news
stories. Please allow me, the reader, to draw a conclusion for myself.

DAVID E. LANGFORD

Atlanta

To the Editor:

Re "U.S. Officials Stand By Vote Despite Fears" (front page, Nov. 26):

I strongly disagree with the Obama administration's position. As a political
scientist, and someone who has worked as an election observer around the world,
I believe that there are two important reasons that warrant a recount in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.

First, the elections were conducted in a context of credible threats of external
interference and cyber-manipulation. These were serious enough to warrant not
only a look into the current situation, but also a bigger discussion about our
voting methods in general.

Second, the recount will draw attention to the problem of electronic voting
machines that do not produce a paper trail. Election observation agencies have
long advised states to remove or not to adopt such machines, because of the
threat of software manipulation and the inability of conducting an actual
recount. This is one of the main reasons that a lot of developed countries have
shied away from this technology.

We should treat the recount as an opportunity to address and deal with these
issues now.

KLARA BILGIN

Fairfax, Va.

The writer is dean of the School of Public and International Affairs at Virginia
International University.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             742 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Wall Street Closes Lower as Bank and Consumer Stocks Fall

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 616 words



HIGHLIGHT: Oil prices were volatile ahead of a Wednesday meeting of OPEC to
discuss production cuts to bolster prices.


Stocks on Wall Street pulled back slightly on Monday, retreating from the
records set last week.

Consumer companies and banks took some of the largest losses. Small-company
stocks, which have been outperforming the rest of the market for weeks, gave
back some of their recent gains.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 54.24 points, or 0.3 percent, to
19,097.90. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 11.63 points, or 0.5
percent, to 2,201.72 and the Nasdaq composite lost 30.11 points, or 0.6 percent,
to 5,368.81.

Consumer discretionary stocks were among the hardest hit after the closely
watched post-Thanksgiving sales push.

Amazon, the online retail giant, fell $13.60, or 1.7 percent, to $766.77 after
Citigroup analysts cut their price target on the stock, citing deep discounting
by the retailer to compete during the holiday shopping season. Barnes & Noble
fell 30 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $12.65 on reports the bookseller was also
doing deep discounting to attract customers.

The declines on Monday follow what has been a remarkable rally in November since
Donald J. Trump won the United States presidential election. Investors have made
big bets that Mr. Trump, with a Republican-led Congress, will push to deregulate
energy and banking and cut taxes, which could lead to stronger economic growth.

"The economic and equity market backdrop was already improving before the
election," Bob Doll, chief equity strategist at Nuveen Asset Management, wrote
in a note to investors. "Trump's victory and the Republican sweep provided a
catalyst for investors to ratchet up their optimism."

The Russell 2000, an index of smaller companies lost, 1.3 percent on Monday,
ending a 15-day winning streak. That was the longest winning streak for the
index in 20 years, which rose roughly 11.6 percent this month alone.

Banks also fell more than the rest of the market, with the financial sector of
the S.&P. 500-stock index falling 1.4 percent. Banks have surged since the
election on speculation that the Trump administration would roll back some
regulations put into place after the financial crisis.

Investors have also pulled out of the bond market, betting that higher economic
growth will also lead to higher inflation, something the United States economy
has had little of since the financial crisis.

Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.31 percent
from 2.36 percent. Bond prices have been falling sharply since the election as
investors anticipated that Mr. Trump's policies could lead to higher economic
growth and higher inflation. The yield on the 10-year note was 1.83 percent the
day before the election.

The price of benchmark oil jumped $1.02, or 2.2 percent, to $47.08 a barrel in
New York ahead of the Wednesday meeting of OPEC, where oil-producing countries
may consider a broad cut in production. Brent crude oil, the international
standard, rose $1, or 2 percent, to $48.24 a barrel in London.

In other energy trading, heating oil rose 4 cents to $1.51 a gallon. Wholesale
gasoline rose 4 cents, to $1.41 a gallon, and natural gas rose 15 cents, to
$3.23 per thousand cubic feet.

The euro edged higher against the dollar, to $1.0597 from $1.0592 on Friday. The
dollar fell to 112.26 Japanese yen from 113.04 yen.

The price of gold rose $12.40, to $1,190.60 an ounce. Silver rose 11 cents, to
$16.58 an ounce, and copper fell 1 cent, to $2.657 a pound.

PHOTO: A drilling rig in Midland County, Tex., in February. Oil prices rose
ahead of an OPEC meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES DURBIN/MIDLAND REPORTER-TELEGRAM,
VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average
at 1-minute intervals on Monday. (Source: Reuters)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             743 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Trump Meets Petraeus as Secretary of State Sweepstakes Heat Up;
Transition Briefing

BYLINE: MAGGIE HABERMAN, ADAM NAGOURNEY and GARDINER HARRIS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1666 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Trump was widely criticized for baseless claims of voter fraud,
and one of his advisers publicly denounced Mitt Romney, a contender to lead the
State Department.


President-elect Donald J. Trump met with David H. Petraeus on Monday as the
battle rages to fill the post of secretary of state.  Meanwhile, the
president-elect is on Twitter again, threatening the Cuba thaw and lobbing voter
fraud charges.

There's still a secretary of state to name.

David H. Petraeus, the retired general who led the C.I.A., met Monday with
President-elect Trump, and it appears he really would like to be secretary of
state.

"I was with him for about an hour," Mr. Petraeus told reporters. "He basically
walked us around the world, showed a great grasp of a variety of the challenges
that are out there and some of the opportunities as well. Very good
conversation, and we'll see where it goes from here."

The president-elect returned the compliment.

Just met with General Petraeus--was very impressed! - Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) November 28, 2016

Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, is
up next with a meeting in Trump Tower on Tuesday. And Mitt Romney is set to have
dinner with the president-elect on Tuesday night.

Mr. Romney is the preferred choice of Vice President-elect Mike Pence and some
business leaders from whom Mr. Trump has heard. But contention over him being
chosen has led Mr. Trump's aides to open the process to other names, such as Mr.
Corker.

Typical of the pushback, L. Brent Bozell, a conservative media critic, said in a
statement:

"The very idea of Mitt Romney as Secretary of State - or any other cabinet
position in a Trump administration - is a slap to his supporters. Plenty of
people (myself included) opposed the President-elect, but virtually all endorsed
him once he was the nominee. Not so Romney and the DC elites."

The pro-Romney camp is doing its own pushback. A person briefed on the process,
who asked to remain anonymous to discuss sensitive conversations, said that Mr.
Romney had not sought consideration for the secretary of state, and was
initially contacted by Mr. Pence. In that first conversation, Mr. Romney made
clear to Mr. Pence that he would accept the position if the incoming president
offered it, the person said, contradicting the claim from others in Mr. Trump's
circle who are opposed to the potential appointment.

The debate over Mr. Romney - and before him, Rudolph W. Giuliani - has given an
opening to Mr. Petraeus, despite the cloud of scandal that still hangs over him
for sharing classified information during an extramarital affair.

Trump warns on Cuba; White House pushes back.

The president-elect has not held his punches in denouncing the predations of
Fidel Castro, the late Cuban dictator, but he seemed to be keeping his options
open on President Obama's diplomatic thaw with the communist Caribbean nation.

On Monday, via Twitter, Mr. Trump lobbed a threat about that.

If Cuba is unwilling to make a better deal for the Cuban people, the
Cuban/American people and the U.S. as a whole, I will terminate deal. - Donald
J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 28, 2016

Josh Earnest, the White House spokesman, isn't mourning Mr. Obama's initiative
just yet though.

There will soon be 110 daily flights from the United States to Cuba, and cruise,
tour and hotel operators have already invested significant sums in
infrastructure to support those visits. Citizens in Cuba and the United States
overwhelmingly support the new policy, Mr. Earnest said.

"So unrolling all of that is much more complicated than just the stroke of a
pen," Mr. Earnest said, adding, "It's just not as simple as one tweet might make
it seem."

Michigan certifies results: Trump won.

As a recount proceeds in Wisconsin, Michigan officially certified its results on
Monday: Mr. Trump beat Hillary Clinton by 10,704 votes, or 0.2 percentage
points.

Michigan certifies results: Trump 2,279,543 (47.5%), Clinton 2,268,839 (47.3%),
Others 250,902 (5.2%). https://t.co/j58GaxfPmH - Dave Wasserman (@Redistrict)
November 28, 2016

Mrs. Clinton's overall popular vote lead stands at 2,241,834.

Just what are Trump and Obama talking about?

Mr. Earnest confirmed Monday that President Obama and President-elect Trump had
spoken for 45 minutes on Saturday after Mr. Obama returned a call from the man
who will succeed him.

"President Obama has been doing this job for eight years, and he's learned a lot
about the kind of challenges a person in that job faces," Mr. Earnest said.

But what are they talking about? Mr. Trump has hinted that Mr. Obama has told
him of one big foreign policy concern: North Korea. And for good reason: The
autocratic government there is pressing ahead with efforts to develop a
nuclear-tipped missile that could reach American soil; a corruption crisis has
paralyzed South Korea's government; and Washington will soon be led by a new
president with no governmental experience.

California to Trump: Forget about it.

When President-elect Trump claimed on Twitter that he was losing the popular
vote because of massive voter fraud by millions of voters, one of the states he
pointed to was California, where the latest voting returns showed Hillary
Clinton crushing Mr. Trump.

Now the state's top election official, Alex Padilla, has responded. Mr. Padilla
asserted that there was no evidence for the president-elect's claim, and he
denounced Mr. Trump for what he said was unpresidential behavior.

pic.twitter.com/WfXISEBwzN - Alex Padilla (@AlexPadilla4CA) November 28, 2016

This state has historically been slow to count ballots, a reflection of its size
and the inefficiencies of many county voting operations. As of Saturday, Mrs.
Clinton had received 8.1 million votes in California, compared with 4.2 million
for Mr. Trump, according to Mr. Padilla's office. It was not clear when the vote
count would be concluded.

Mr. Padilla is the highest-ranking Latino elected to state office in California.
Mr. Trump's poor showing there, many Democrats and Republicans said, came in no
small part because of his attacks on what he described as the threat of illegal
immigration - particularly from Mexicans. About 40 percent of this state's
population is Latino.

Another irresponsible attempt to undermine confidence in our elections. Baseless
and counterproductive. https://t.co/DW3ETVTsVM - Alex Padilla (@AlexPadilla4CA)
November 27, 2016

'A shocking level of disdain ... '

Citing what they called Mr. Trump's "shocking level of disdain for legitimate
bipartisan concerns" over conflicts of interest, the Democratic members of the
House Oversight Committee on Monday formally requested that the committee's
chairman open a review of the president-elect's web of global business
interests.

Oh, and they'd like copies of the tax returns that Mr. Trump has refused to
release.

A Japanese restaurant is planned at Trump's new hotel.

The president-elect's elegant new hotel, built in the Old Post Office building
on Pennsylvania Avenue near the White House, has finally secured its second
restaurant.

The space at the Trump International Hotel has been empty since the celebrity
chefs José Andrés and Geoffrey Zakarian backed out in protest of Mr. Trump's
incendiary comments about Mexican immigrants during the campaign, prompting
legal action by the Trump organization.

Now, Nakazawa, a Japanese omakase bar and dining room, is stepping up with a new
restaurant, to be opened by next summer.

"My decisions are not clouded by political views or what I feel in my heart,
right or wrong," Alessandro Borgognone, Nakazawa's owner, told Washingtonian
magazine. "Anytime that we decide something on business, it's what's best for
the business."

Congress appears to have a cure.

The 114th Congress returns to Washington this week for one big order of business
- besides keeping the government's lights on.

In one of its final and most significant acts, the House on Wednesday is set to
pass the 21st Century Cures Act, an ambitious and pricey initiative that would
deregulate some forms of drugs and medical devices and would fund President
Obama's cancer "moonshot," Alzheimer's research, regenerative medicine and
efforts to address opioid addiction. The agreement, reached between House and
Senate negotiators over the Thanksgiving break, should be passed next month by
the Senate.

The legislation's total funding for the National Institutes of Health is $4.8
billion, a reduction from what the House sought last year. The bill, large as it
is, is expected to pass with little debate and lots of lobbying fingerprints -
and a bipartisan nod to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who wanted the
moonshot.

But Nancy Pelosi has a cold.

Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader and
longtime head of the embattled House Democrats, faces something of a reckoning
this week.

Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio, a burly former high school football player from
Youngstown, has had the temerity to challenge her for the minority leader post,
saying the party needs to face the reality that Hillary Clinton's losses in
Ohio, Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania show that Democrats have lost touch
with their working-class roots.

Even if, as likely, Ms. Pelosi survives the vote on Wednesday, she has shown
vulnerability. The leadership slate that she has introduced includes
Representative Cheri Bustos of a working-class corner of Illinois. In a letter
to colleagues, she introduced her as "a leader representing the Heartland" who
"has fought for manufacturing jobs and the needs of our veterans in rural
America."

Another offering? Representative Matt Cartwright, who "knows how to take the
concerns of his constituents in working-class Pennsylvania and translate them
into a message that moves people."

The pushback? The Congressional Black Caucus fears its own power is being
diluted.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Related Articles


     ·    Potential Conflicts Around the Globe for Trump, the Businessman
          President
     ·    Trump Claims, With No Evidence, That 'Millions of People' Voted
          Illegally
     ·    Donald Trump Adds K.T. McFarland to His National Security Team


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             744 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Retired Coal Miners Losing Their Safety Net;
Editorial

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 509 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mitch McConnell should help retirees who worked in a dangerous
industry and deserve what was promised by contract.


The troubled coal industry, which stirred such great political concern during
the presidential campaign, is about to take on a decidedly human dimension in
the Senate. A bipartisan push is underway there to rescue the failing pension
and health benefits of thousands of retired union coal miners. Their benefit
plans have become severely underfunded during the industry's downturn, as coal
companies declare bankruptcy and renege on obligations to workers at a time when
there are fewer young miners to contribute support.

One by one, hard-pressed coal companies have been bailing out on contract
promises. The latest, Patriot Coal's benefit fund, told 12,500 retirees last
month that their health coverage will stop on Dec. 31. More than 10,000 other
retired workers face similar cutoffs over the next year, according to the Senate
sponsors of an emergency rescue plan. It would tap into funds from an existing
mine cleanup program in order to bolster union health and retirement plans with
an estimated contribution of $220 million a year.

The plan, called the Miners Protection Act, was sent for floor action by a
bipartisan 18-to-8 vote of the Senate Finance Committee in September. But it has
run into trouble with the Republican majority leader, Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky. He questions why the bill would protect only members of the United
Mine Workers of America, which has an estimated 89,000 pensioned miners and
family members and 22,000 workers vested for the future.

The senator's concern for nonunion miners seems a classic example of a hackneyed
legislative tactic - arguing for the perfect to block the good. He should drop
it and help retirees who worked in a dangerous industry and deserve what was
promised by contract in the halcyon days of Big Coal.

Mr. McConnell blames the Obama administration for the industry's troubles,
insisting that its "ideological" regulatory policies have hurt miners more than
they have helped the environment. It's true that clean air rules (many predating
Mr. Obama) have required costly investments in pollution controls and helped
drive some old coal-fired power plants out of business. But a far greater factor
in coal's demise has been the boom in cheaper, cleaner natural gas. Coal once
generated more than half the electricity in the United States. Its share is now
closer to 30 percent.

Mr. McConnell ignores more than market forces in opposing the bill. He seems
blind as well to a federal commitment to miners that dates back 70 years to the
bare-knuckle unionism of the miners' John L. Lewis.

The plan has firm support from Democratic senators, but its success is in
serious doubt, given Mr. McConnell's stance. (He insists that the United Mine
Workers's endorsement of his opponent two years ago in a re-election race is
"irrelevant" to his views.) He says he hopes "we can find a way forward" on the
issue. Fast floor action to help thousands of coal miners is the obvious way
forward.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             745 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Fake News and the Internet Shell Game;
The Stone

BYLINE: MICHAEL P. LYNCH

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1204 words



HIGHLIGHT: Even as others deceive us, we deceive ourselves.


Only a few days after the presidential election, the Oxford English Dictionary
crowned its international word of the year: post-truth. The dictionary defined
it as "relating to or denoting circumstances in which objective facts are less
influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotion and personal
belief." To say that the term captured the zeitgeist of 2016 is a lexigraphical
understatement. The word, the dictionary's editors explained, had "gone from
being a peripheral term to being a mainstay in political commentary."

Not coincidentally, it was also the year of "fake news," in which pure fiction
masquerading as truth (like posts that claimed Hillary Clinton used a body
double and that Pope Francis had endorsed Donald Trump) may have spread wide
enough to influence the outcome of the election. Some were certainly deliberate
lies spread by right-wing Clinton opponents and all-out profiteers, many in
countries outside the United States (and possibly even the Russian government).
But framing the issue solely in terms of lying actually underplays and
mischaracterizes the grand deception being perpetuated inside the internet's fun
house of mirrors.

To better see this, we must distinguish lying from deception. To lie is to
deliberately say what you believe to be false with the intention of deceiving
your audience. I can deceive you without lying (silence at a key moment, for
example, can be deceptive). And I can lie to you without deceiving. That may be
because you are skeptical and don't believe me, but it may also be because what
I say is inadvertently true. Either way, you are lied to but not deceived.

That might suggest that deception occurs when someone is actually caused to
believe what is false. "Deception," as philosophers say, is a "success term."
But that's only halfway there. Deception can happen even without false belief.

Consider that oldest of cons, the shell game. The con man presents three shells,
one of which has a penny underneath. He moves the shells around and asks you to
pick the shell with the penny. It looks easy, but isn't. Using sleight of hand,
he distracts you so that you can't track the right shell and know where the
penny is. But one can lack knowledge without having a false belief. One can be
simply confused, and that is typically the case with such tricks. You don't know
what to think, and so simply guess. You can be deceived not only by believing
what is false but by not believing what is true.

The use of social media to spread political misinformation online is partly just
a giant shell game. Propagandists often don't care whether everyone, or even
most people, really believe the specific things they are selling (although it
turns out that lots of people always do). They don't have to get you to actually
believe the penny is under the wrong shell. They just have to get you confused
enough so that you don't know what is true. That's still deception. And it is
this kind of deception that dreadful for-profit conspiracy sites like Liberty
Writers News have been particularly adept at spreading.

Sure, some percentage of people actually believed the content of such sites (for
instance, that Hillary Clinton was behind the death of a federal agent). But a
far greater number of people came away ever so slightly more doubtful of what is
true. They didn't believe Hillary Clinton ordered a hit, but they didn't
disbelieve it either. It simply became part of the background, one more
unsettled question.

It used to be that when someone would say something outrageously false ("the
moon landing was faked") it would be ignored by most folks with the reasoning
that "if that was true, I would have heard about it by now." By that, they meant
"heard about from creditable, independent sources." Filters (primarily, editors)
worked to not only weed out the bad, but to make sure the truly extraordinary
real news made it to the surface.

The internet has made that reasoning moot.

Many of us are ensconced in our own information bubbles. Few people reject crazy
claims based on the fact they hadn't heard about them before now, because
chances are they already have heard about them, or something close to them, from
the sites that tend to confirm their biases. That makes them more susceptible to
taking fake news seriously.

One reason all this matters is that it perpetuates a feedback loop of deception
that is particularly useful to demagogues here and abroad. Deliberate postings
invented by entrepreneurs are the manure that make the seeds of doubt and
credulity grow. Take the case of Eric Tucker, who tweeted a photo of buses in
Austin, Tex., that he thought were being used to bus in marchers protesting
Donald Trump's election. His tweet went viral before it could be debunked. The
example is illustrative: softened up by the more outrageous postings and
innuendo, ordinary citizens can find themselves ignoring obvious alternative
explanations (as Mr. Tucker admits he did) in order to post and share "news"
which fits a set of background suspicions and biases.

That in turn gives racist white nationalist and other fringe conspiracy sites -
not to mention @realDonaldTrump - more to work with. Their subsequent posts
soften more people up, and so it goes. It becomes a cycle where few are
deliberately lying, but deception is spiraling ever outward.

A second reason this sort of deception matters is subtler, and concerns our
attitude toward evidence and even truth itself. Faced with so much conflicting
information, many people are prone to think that everything is biased,
everything conflicts, that there is no way to get out of the Library of Babel we
find ourselves in, so why try? As Mr. Tucker put it, "I'm also a very busy
businessman and I don't have time to fact-check everything that I put out there,
especially when I don't think it's going out there for wide consumption."

This attitude is hardly confined to Mr. Tucker - who among us has not shared
posts without fact-checking them? Unfortunately, that doesn't make it right.
Almost everything that we encounter online is being presented to us by
for-profit algorithms, and by us, post by post, tweet by tweet. That fact, even
more than the spread of fake news, can be its own sort of shell game, one that
we are pulling on ourselves.

As the late-19th-century mathematician W. K. Clifford noted in his famous essay,
"The Ethics of Belief," ambivalence about objective evidence is an attitude
corrosive of democracy. Clifford ends the essay by imagining someone who has "no
time for the long course of study" that would make him competent to judge many
questions. Clifford's response is withering: "Then he should have no time to
believe."

And we might add, tweet.

Now in print: "The Stone Reader: Modern Philosophy in 133 Arguments," an
anthology of essays from The Times's philosophy series, edited by Peter Catapano
and Simon Critchley, published by Liveright Books.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Michael P. Lynch, a professor of philosophy at the University of Connecticut, is
the author of the "Internet of Us: Knowing More and Understanding Less in the
Age of Big Data." Twitter: @Plural_truth.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             746 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

Divisions in My Dorm Room;
On Campus

BYLINE: K.N. PINEDA

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 774 words



HIGHLIGHT: Liberals and conservatives, on campus and off, have spent too much
time in their own political bubbles.


The presidential election was the last thing on my mind on Nov. 8. I had essays
to write and Italian vocabulary to learn. Sure, I kept New York Times and Wall
Street Journal tabs open on my laptop, but I was uninterested in indulging in
conversation about an election that most everyone could agree was a time bomb.

As a student at New York University and the daughter of a civil servant at the
United States Department of State, I am familiar with political unrest and its
potentially disastrous outcomes in the arms of ignorance and hysteria. I did not
hold any particularly strong opinions about Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. If
I had voted, however, I would have picked Mr. Trump. I was focused on school. I
had no idea that a few days later I would be dismissed as a "Trump supporter"
and a person of "privilege" who "reflected an us versus them mind-set" in an
essay by my college roommate in this publication - an essay that would go viral
and change my life.

I did not feel that I should lie to my new college friends, especially at
N.Y.U., where we are supposed to be open to hearing opposing views, able to
discuss them and put any bias aside. I never tried to persuade my roommate to
accept my side, my choice or my views. I even agreed with some of her opinions
about Mr. Trump, who has said divisive things about Muslims and other minority
groups. As an independent, my feelings toward the campaign were very mixed. I
felt strongly that as a country we needed to focus on domestic issues, and for
me, the Republicans were more prepared to do that.

My roommate has since apologized to me, but in the meantime I have felt the
glare of her friends and been heckled on campus by other students. I have been
labeled "racist," "sexist" and "xenophobic" on Facebook. I have been called a
"white without a conscious," a "misogynist," a "bigot" and a "barbarian" online
by people all over the country.

Here's my story. My father is Hispanic. My extended family lives in Southern
California and New Mexico. Many of my family members are not native English
speakers. My maternal grandmother is an Italian immigrant who holds a green
card. Her husband died after struggling with drug addiction and alcoholism; she
had to work two jobs to make ends meet. My mother was raised by her stepfather,
who is African-American and the only maternal grandfather I have known. He is a
kind, devout man whom I love dearly. My family and friends come from all
ethnicities, religions and sexual orientations.

Attending New York University was my dream. My dad grew up in a trailer home,
and my mom was homeless for a period of time. My parents were the first in their
families to graduate from college. They have struggled to provide the best for
me and my brother. They have sacrificed financially and worked hard to give us a
good life. I came to N.Y.U. partly on scholarship and am accruing debt to pay my
tuition.

As minorities, my mother, father, grandparents and I have experienced racial
hate. My skin may be light, but I understand discrimination. I may not know each
person's individual experience, but am able to empathize with others.

On Election Day, as it became clear that Mr. Trump would be the next president,
I tried to reassure my roommate that I was sensitive to her politics and
personal concerns about a Trump administration. I sent her lengthy texts trying
to express my hope for reconciliation.

I know the fear that the election has inflicted. I comprehend the hurt that
people feel. We all have reasons for casting our votes. What I do not understand
is hatred toward one another. Supporters of both parties have misunderstood and
fueled hate out of reckless emotion and ignorance.

The answer is not to further the divide by labeling and dehumanizing one
another. We should fight the "us versus them" mind-set. We have spent too much
time in our own bubbles, and we need to begin a dialogue that will allow us to
understand one another.

Blind fear and hatred are far more powerful than any candidate. How can we
assume we know someone based on the color of their skin, their religion, or
their political choices? Why should we be afraid to express our opinions? If we
see one another not as a Clinton supporter or a Trump supporter, but as human,
perhaps we can discover empathy in the troubled nation in which we exist.

The narrative should be one of inclusiveness, openness, respect and love. It is
not only about making "America Great Again," it is about making America home
again.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.

K.N. Pineda is a freshman at New York University.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             747 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       November 28, 2016 Monday 00:00 EST

When Having Insurance Still Leaves You Dangerously Uncovered;
The New Health Care

BYLINE: AARON E. CARROLL

SECTION: UPSHOT

LENGTH: 1199 words



HIGHLIGHT: More Americans are insured, but many are still underinsured - meaning
that they are exposed to significant financial risk from out-of-pocket payments.



One of the few things that Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton seemed to agree
on was that high out-of-pocket spending on health care was a problem. One of
Mrs. Clinton's most popular health care proposals during her campaign was to
reduce out-of-pocket spending to more "manageable" levels for many Americans.
President-elect Trump said he could fix this problem by repealing Obamacare and
replacing it with something better.

As I've written before, while more Americans are insured, many are still
underinsured - meaning that they are exposed to significant financial risk from
out-of-pocket payments. Reducing out-of-pocket spending, however, will require
some trade-offs. No easy solution exists, but there are examples out there
worthy of consideration.

Before we can discuss any plan's specifics, let's look at exactly how the health
care system extracts money from you. Plans differ in the amount of actuarial
value they have. That's the percentage of the cost of care that insurance will
cover. If a plan has 60 percent actuarial value, then it covers 60 percent of
your potential health care spending, and you cover 40 percent. Plans with higher
actuarial value cost more. In the Affordable Care Act insurance exchanges,
bronze plans have a 60 percent actuarial value. Silver plans have 70 percent,
and gold plans 80 percent.

You pay up front for health insurance with a premium that is often charged
monthly. But that's not all the spending you'll do. Almost all plans come with
deductibles. This is an amount of money that you are responsible for paying for
health care before insurance coverage kicks in. The reason plans have
deductibles is that research shows you're less likely to spend your money than
the insurance company's money. Plans with lower deductibles usually have higher
premiums.

Even after you spend the deductible, you're not done, though. Most plans come
with co-pays. These are set fees that you have to pay each time you use the
health care system. They may be $20 for a doctor's visit, or $100 for an
emergency room visit. Some plans use co-insurance instead. That's when you pay
for a percentage of your care instead of a set fee for each service.

The lower the actuarial value, the more you're going to pay out of pocket in
deductibles, co-pays or co-insurance. But plans on the Obamacare exchanges are
all subject to an out-of-pocket maximum. In 2016, for a family, it was $13,700,
and for an individual it was $6,850. Even the bronzest of bronze plans can't ask
you to pay any more, but they are more likely to let you hit the maximum.

That's a lot of money. This is true even in the employer-based insurance market.
In 2016, almost 30 percent of workers were enrolled in a high-deductible health
care plan. More than half of employees with individual plans had deductibles of
at least $1,000. Two-thirds of covered workers had co-pays, and 25 percent had
co-insurance for primary care. Almost 20 percent of workers were in plans with
an out-of-pocket maximum of $6,000 or more.

Mrs. Clinton proposed a tax credit for those with high out-of-pocket spending,
up to $5,000 per family, or $2,500 for individuals. This tax credit would be
applied to insured Americans whose out-of-pocket health care spending rises
above 5 percent of their income.

Economists at the RAND Corporation modeled how this proposal might work. They
estimated that this cost-sharing tax credit would increase the number of insured
people in the United States by 9.6 million people in 2018. They also found it
would lead to significant reductions in out-of-pocket spending for many
Americans. Most of these savings would be felt by those making between 139
percent and 400 percent of the federal poverty line. People earning less are
usually on Medicaid, which has little out-of-pocket spending already, and people
earning more are less likely to see such spending reach the limit.

The trade-off is that this would cost the government money - quite a bit of it,
in fact. It's estimated that the tax credits alone would cost more than $110
billion in 2018. Some of this government spending would be offset by people
choosing to take private insurance (with the credits) over Medicaid, which could
reduce Medicaid spending by $25 billion. Over all, it's estimated that this
policy would increase the federal deficit in 2018 by just over $90 billion. Of
course, this could be offset by new taxes or fees, but those would surely be
unpopular.

Mr. Trump offered no specific plans for reducing out-of-pocket spending. But
that's not surprising. It wasn't that long ago that one of the most favored
means by which conservatives proposed to bring down health care spending was to
have consumers put more "skin in the game." Many of them believed that if
consumers were more exposed to health care spending, if they had to pay more out
of pocket for care, then they would be more responsible consumers because of it.

In fact, calls have already begun for Mr. Trump to expose people to even more
out-of-pocket spending. Right now, the Affordable Care Act has provisions that
help reduce cost-sharing below the out-of-pocket maximum for those making less
than 250 percent of the poverty line who purchase a silver-level plan. Those
payments are made directly to health plans that cover those people.

It may be possible for the president to cut off those payments immediately,
without any congressional involvement. If he were to do that, and it's unlikely,
it would either cripple those insurance companies, or they'd withdraw
immediately from the exchanges, terminating coverage and leaving millions
without health insurance overnight.

It's also unlikely that the Trump administration would cover more people's
out-of-pocket payments with federal money. To argue suddenly that people should
be shielded from the expense of health care would be a sea change for
conservative health insurance design.

That doesn't mean that there aren't changes that might make sense. In other
countries, like France and Singapore, cost-sharing for those with chronic
illnesses, those who might spend the most on health care, is such that they have
their co-pays waived or reduced.

The theory there is that we want to use cost-sharing to encourage the healthy to
spend less, but remove barriers for the sick. Changes like this might leave in
place many of the benefits that cost sharing is supposed to provide in curbing
spending, while removing the harms of high out-of-pocket spending for many
vulnerable Americans who need care the most.

Regardless, out-of-pocket spending was an issue throughout this campaign, and
it's not going away soon. It's probably something the Trump administration will
need to grapple with in order to satisfy campaign promises without abandoning
conservative principles of reform.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.

Aaron E. Carroll is a professor of pediatrics at Indiana University School of
Medicine who blogs on health research and policy at The Incidental Economist and
makes videos at Healthcare Triage. Follow him on Twitter at @aaronecarroll.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY CLAUDIA MATE)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             748 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 29, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Threatening Cuba Will Backfire;
What's at Stake

BYLINE: THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 469 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rolling back the Obama administration's policy of pragmatic
engagement with Cuba would be monumentally misguided.


As Cubans continued either to mourn or to celebrate the death of Fidel Castro,
President-elect Donald Trump issued a vague ultimatum to the Cuban government on
Monday. "If Cuba is unwilling to make a better deal for the Cuban people, the
Cuban/American people and the U.S. as a whole, I will terminate deal," Mr. Trump
wrote on Twitter.

While Cuba is hardly the most pressing foreign policy challenge Mr. Trump will
inherit in January, he is facing calls to roll back the Obama administration's
policy of engagement, a move that would be extremely shortsighted.

President Obama's opening with Havana in 2014 hasn't been an instant catalyst of
democracy, freedom and prosperity. But it has helped establish conditions for
ordinary Cubans to have greater autonomy in a society long run as a police
state. It has also enabled Cuban-Americans to play a larger role in shaping the
nation's future, primarily by providing capital for the island's nascent private
sector. While the Cuban government and the Obama White House continue to have
profound disagreements on issues such as human rights, the two governments have
established a robust bilateral agenda that includes cooperation on environmental
policy, maritime issues, migration, organized crime and responses to pandemics.
These hard-won diplomatic achievements have benefited both sides.

As a businessman, Mr. Trump explored the possibility of investing in Cubaduring
the 1990s, in violation of the trade embargo. As a presidential candidate, he
spoke approvingly of engaging with Cuba, before taking a more hard-line position
during the final days of the race in the pursuit of Cuban-American votes in
Florida.

If Mr. Trump's Cuba policy matches his latest rhetoric, cooperation is likely to
wane. That would only embolden hard-liners in the Cuban regime who are leery of
mending ties with the United States and are committed to maintaining Cuba as a
repressive socialist bulwark. In Mr. Trump, they may find the ideal foil to
stoke nationalism among Cubans who are fiercely protective of their nation's
sovereignty and right to self-determination.

More than five decades of Cold War isolation never led to greater freedoms for
Cubans. The Castro government has long justified its stifling controls on its
citizens and its centrally planned economy by portraying Cuba as a nation under
siege.

Alternatively, Mr. Trump could build on Mr. Obama's approach by pressing
lawmakers to do away with the senseless embargo. Once that happened, the
American government would be better positioned to keep promoting freedom of
expression, free enterprise and democratic governance, while making it clear
that the future of Cuba must be decided by Cubans.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             749 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 29, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Trump to Announce Carrier Plant Will Keep Jobs in U.S.

BYLINE: NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1186 words



HIGHLIGHT: Reversing a plan the president-elect had assailed, the company will
keep roughly half of the 2,000 manufacturing jobs in Indiana that it was to
shift to Mexico.


From the earliest days of his campaign, Donald J. Trump made keeping
manufacturing jobs in the United States his signature economic issue, and the
decision by Carrier, the big air-conditioner company, to move over 2,000 of them
from Indiana to Mexico was a tailor-made talking point for him on the stump.

On Thursday, Mr. Trump and Mike Pence, Indiana's governor and the vice
president-elect, plan to appear at Carrier's Indianapolis factory to announce a
deal with the company to keep roughly 1,000 jobs in the state, according to
officials with the transition team as well as Carrier.

Mr. Trump will be hard-pressed to alter the economic forces that have hammered
the Rust Belt for decades, but forcing Carrier and its parent company, United
Technologies, to reverse course is a powerful tactical strike that will hearten
his followers even before he takes office.

"I'm ready for him to come," said Robin Maynard, a 24-year veteran of Carrier
who builds high-efficiency furnaces and earns almost $24 an hour. "Now I can put
my daughter through college without having to look for another job."

It also signals that Mr. Trump is a different kind of Republican, willing to
take on big business, at least in individual cases.

Big day on Thursday for Indiana and the great workers of that wonderful state.We
will keep our companies and jobs in the U.S. Thanks Carrier - Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) November 30, 2016

And just as only a confirmed anti-Communist like Richard Nixon could go to
China, so only a businessman like Mr. Trump could take on corporate America
without being called a Bernie Sanders-style socialist. If Barack Obama had tried
the same maneuver, he'd probably have drawn criticism for intervening in the
free market.

In exchange for keeping the factory running in Indianapolis, Mr. Trump and Mr.
Pence are expected to reiterate their campaign pledges to be friendlier to
businesses by easing regulations and overhauling the corporate tax code,
according to a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump.

The state of Indiana also plans to give economic incentives to Carrier as part
of the deal to stay, according to local officials.

The message from Mr. Trump that captivated the Carrier workers - keeping
manufacturing jobs in the United States after decades of losses to overseas
factories and automation - resonated throughout the Rust Belt. That promise,
plus his opposition to pacts like the North American Free Trade Agreement, were
key reasons he was able to edge out Hillary Clinton in states like Pennsylvania,
Michigan and Wisconsin.

We are pleased to have reached a deal with President-elect Trump & VP-elect
Pence to keep close to 1,000 jobs in Indy. More details soon. - Carrier
(@Carrier) November 30, 2016

Political symbolism aside, saving 1,000 Carrier jobs doesn't loom so large in an
economy that's created an average of 181,000 jobs a month this year, noted Jared
Bernstein, a liberal economist who served as adviser in the Obama administration
from 2009 to 2011.

Still, he confessed a grudging admiration for Mr. Trump's political jujitsu. "If
I weren't so scared of the damage a Trump administration might do, I'd find it
refreshing to see an administration fighting for factory jobs like this," he
said. "That said, no one should confuse what Trump is doing here with
sustainable economic policy."

Over the long term, and for less prominent firms, the temptation to move to
cheaper locales for manufacturing will stay great, said Robert Reich, a
prominent liberal Democrat who served as secretary of labor in the Clinton
administration.

"Memories are short but the economic fundamentals remain the same," he said.
"Wall Street is breathing down companies' necks to cut costs, and the labor
savings in Mexico is too great."

Mr. Trump first announced he was talking to Carrier on Thanksgiving Day via
Twitter, which the company quickly confirmed. The discussions have continued
this week, and with a tentative deal in hand on Tuesday, transition officials
scheduled Mr. Trump's and Mr. Pence's visit to Indianapolis.

"I didn't think it would be this quick," Mr. Maynard said.

While the standoff loomed large in the lives of its employees in Indiana, for
United Technologies the forgone savings is tiny - equivalent to about 2 cents
per share in earnings.

"Every penny counts, but if we step back and I'm looking at earnings of $6.60
per share this year, 2 cents is an easy concession if the president-elect
listens to some of the company's bigger concerns," said Howard Rubel, a senior
equity analyst with Jefferies, an investment banking firm in New York.

When Carrier announced in February that the two Indiana factories would be
closing, it did offer benefits to employees facing layoffs, including paying for
them to go back to school and retrain for other careers. Even with that,
however, once the layoffs were to begin in mid-2017, most of the workers would
have had a hard time finding jobs that paid anywhere near the $20 to $25 an hour
that veteran line workers earn.

Carrier is best known for its air-conditioners, but it also sells a variety of
other heating and cooling equipment for homes and businesses, like the gas
furnaces and fan coils for electric furnaces made at the Indianapolis factory.
The jobs in Indiana Mr. Trump has referred to are in two separate sites - the
Carrier plant in Indianapolis, with 1,400 employees, and a United Technologies
factory in Huntington, Ind., with 700.

While Carrier will forfeit some $65 million a year in savings the move was
supposed to generate, that's a small price to pay to avoid the public relations
damage from moving the jobs as well as a possible threat to United Technologies'
far-larger military contracting business.

Roughly 10 percent of United Technologies' $56 billion in revenue comes from the
federal government; the Pentagon is its single largest customer. With $4 billion
in profit last year, the company has the flexibility to find the savings
elsewhere.

Members of Congress have been pressing to punish big military contractors if
they move jobs outside the United States.

Many industrial companies face intense pressure from Wall Street to increase
profits, even when the economy grows slowly - a major reason United Technologies
decided to move.

That won't change after Mr. Trump takes office - especially when hourly pay in
the Indianapolis plant is equivalent to what workers in Mexico make in a day.

"This is a spot solution," said Mohan Tatikonda, a professor at the Kelley
School of Business at Indiana University. "If it goes through it helps some
Carrier employees for a period of time, but it doesn't address the loss of
manufacturing jobs to technological change, which will continue."

PHOTO: The Carrier plant in Indianapolis, which employs 1,400. The company also
employs 700 at a factory in Huntington, Ind. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Leans on Carrier to Keep 2,000 U.S. Jobs From Moving to Mexico
     ·    Trump Cites Progress in Keeping Carrier Air Conditioning Plant in
          Indiana
     ·    Can Trump Save Their Jobs? They're Counting on It
     ·    Carrier Workers See Costs, Not Benefits, of Global Trade


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             750 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 29, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

What Donald Trump Might Do for Working-Class Families;
Work-Life Balance

BYLINE: CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: UPSHOT

LENGTH: 1545 words



HIGHLIGHT: Paid family leave is an issue that has gained growing bipartisan
support, but the details could prove contentious.


Among the rare areas of agreement in the aftermath of a contentious presidential
election: Families with working parents, especially those with lower incomes,
are having too hard a time.

Many can no longer count on lives that look like the ones their parents led.
High-paying manufacturing jobs have been disappearing, especially for men. Fewer
people are marrying, and more children are growing up in unstable families.
Parents are struggling to work while raising children.

President-elect Donald J. Trump vowed to help the working class, and blue-collar
whites in particular helped propel him to victory. Although quite a few
economists disagree with him on the merits of his prescriptions, he has said
cutting taxes, restricting immigration and renegotiating trade deals will
ultimately raise incomes of struggling families.

Mr. Trump has said he understands the needs of working parents. "These solutions
must update laws passed more than half a century ago when most women were still
not in the labor force," he said in September in a speech unveiling his child
care proposals.

His daughter Ivanka has pushed ideas like paid leave and seems to be taking a
role in devising new policies. In a statement last week, she said she was
distancing herself from certain aspects of her company in order to "broaden her
efforts to take a stance on issues of critical importance to American women and
families."

Which policies will Mr. Trump pursue to directly address the needs of working
and working-class families? A look at what he has said - along with the wish
lists of Republicans in Congress, scholars and advisers - provides some clues.

Paid Maternity Leave

A striking thing happened during the campaign: For the first time, both
Republican and Democratic candidates made paid family leave a part of their
policy agenda. As recently as 2014, Hillary Clinton said of paid leave, "I don't
think, politically, we could get it now." Now it could find bipartisan support.

Mr. Trump has proposed six weeks of paid maternity leave, which he said would
offer "a crucial safety net for working mothers." Currently, 87 percent of
workers get no paid family leave, and 95 percent of those in the lowest quarter
of earners get none, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Most Americans support a paid leave policy. It can ease the burdens on families
with two working parents and increase the likelihood that parents stay in the
labor force. Still, the details could prove contentious. Should fathers also get
leave, or just mothers? What about gay or adoptive parents, and people who need
to care for sick children or aging relatives? And how should it be paid for?

Mr. Trump's proposal would apply only to new mothers, and he said he would pay
for it with savings from reducing unemployment insurance fraud, though it's
unclear how that would work.

The Family Act, a Democrat-sponsored bill stalled in Congress, proposes paying
for it with a small increase in payroll taxes. Republicans have previously
proposed giving businesses a tax credit for providing paid leave, but making it
voluntary.

"If he structures it in a way that it's not a burden on businesses and does not
work against women's work force participation, I think more Republicans will get
behind it," said Aparna Mathur, a resident scholar in economic policy at the
American Enterprise Institute.

Democrats have argued that by limiting parental leave to new mothers, Mr. Trump
ignores the role fathers play in raising children, exposes women to
discrimination in hiring and neglects the needs of people with ailing or elderly
family members.

"It was fantastic to see the Republicans stepping up and having this debate,"
said Heather Boushey, the executive director of the Washington Center for
Equitable Growth, who was the chief economist for Hillary Clinton's transition
team. "It really spoke to how important these issues are in terms of economic
policy. But I hope that the actual policies are really grounded more in the
evidence of what works than what he's put out so far."

Another policy that analysts say is important to working-class families is paid
sick leave, so that workers can care for themselves or for ill family members.
It's unclear whether Mr. Trump will push for it. Thirty-five percent of workers
over all and 66 percent of those in the bottom quartile of income get no paid
sick leave. Some Republicans have instead proposed letting certain workers -
those in the private sector who are not exempt from overtime laws - substitute
time off for overtime pay.

Child Care

Another Democratic dream that Mr. Trump raised on the campaign trail was
financial help for child care.

"For many families in our country, child care is now the single largest expense,
even more than housing, yet very little meaningful policy work has been done in
this area," he said in September.

His proposal would allow parents earning less than $250,000 individually or
$500,000 jointly to deduct the average cost of child and elder care from their
income taxes. In a nod to social conservatives, he said parents who stayed home
with children would also get the child care tax deduction.

"The idea here is letting the family choose how the money is spent," said
Bradford Wilcox, director of the national marriage project at the University of
Virginia.

For low-income families, Mr. Trump proposed child care spending rebates as part
of the earned-income tax credit. He also said he would make pretax dependent
care savings accounts available to everyone, not just people whose employers
offer them, and give tax deductions to employers that offer on-site child care.

Democrats have favored refundable tax credits over deductions because they say
they are more helpful to lower-income families, who might not make enough to pay
income taxes. Also, credits directly reduce someone's tax bill, while deductions
reduce taxable income but not necessarily the final bill.

Democrats see the ultimate goal as high-quality, universal care for young
children. There seems to be bipartisan support for a small step in that
direction.

"What we've got there is a tremendous amount of support from women - Democrats,
Republicans, independents - to move forward," said Representative Marsha
Blackburn, a Republican from Tennessee.

Apprenticeships

Mr. Trump has pledged to create 25 million jobs over the next decade. Analysts
and policy makers on both sides of the aisle say one route toward that goal is
apprenticeships.

They are viewed as a way for people to acquire vocational skills while earning
money, as opposed to attending college and building up debt. Not only would they
address unemployment among people without college degrees, advocates say, but
they could also lead to more stable families.

The unemployment of working-class men has been a prime reason for the decline in
marriage and rise in single motherhood, researchers have found. When job
opportunities are plentiful, people are more likely to marry before having their
first child, Andrew Cherlin, a professor of public policy at Johns Hopkins,
found in a study published in August in the American Sociological Review.

"It's likely if we can improve the job picture for working-class young adults,
they'd have family lives that are more stable," he said.

The construction industry already uses apprentices, so perhaps Mr. Trump is
familiar with their benefits, said Robert I. Lerman, a fellow at the Urban
Institute. They would be possible in a range of fast-growing industries, like
health care and information technology, he said, and in white-collar jobs like
hotel management. They could also be useful in putting people to work building
the new infrastructure that Mr. Trump has promised.

"People want to have earnings, they want to have dignity, they want to show that
they've been able to master a certain profession, and that gives them a kind of
identity," Mr. Lerman said. "It has both a social as well as an economic
dimension."

Though the idea has received bipartisan support, some Republicans have resisted
registered apprenticeships, which are overseen by the Labor Department, because
of their association with unions. Some Democrats have questioned whether
apprenticeships lead to a two-tier wage system, and have focused instead on
making college accessible to more people.

Policy makers and researchers have a long list of other policy ideas for Mr.
Trump that they believe could help blue-collar families. Some have historically
appealed to Republicans, like those that encourage marriage. Others, like
mandating predictable work schedules for hourly workers, have been promoted by
Democrats.

With both parties fighting even more for the allegiance of the working class,
there actually might be some movement on some or all of these issues.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us onFacebook andTwitter. Sign up for ournewsletter.

PHOTO: Pushing a stroller in New York. Many parents are struggling to work while
raising children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN THOMAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    When Having Insurance Still Leaves You Dangerously Uncovered
     ·    What Will Trump Trade Policy Actually Look Like? Three Possibilities
     ·    Let's Say Obamacare Is Repealed. What Then?
     ·    Trump, and Great Business Ideas for America


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             751 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 29, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

In Paris, Worries That Trump Will Embolden Le Pen;
Editorial Observer

BYLINE: MIRA KAMDAR

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 698 words



HIGHLIGHT: The National Front candidate for French president views Donald
Trump's election as "good news for our country," but others see much to protest.



PANTIN, France - Tourists near the Eiffel Tower were met with an unexpected
sight this month: hundreds of people marching to protest the election of Donald
Trump and condemn the politics of hate and division. The #ParisAgainstTrump
march was organized by a group of Americans in Paris but also drew French
citizens who are worried that Mr. Trump's victory will embolden far-right
politicians in France.

That may already have begun. Marine Le Pen - the National Front candidate, who
is expected to make it to the final round in French presidential election in
thespring - congratulated Mr. Trump on Twitter and later said his election was
"good news for our country."

The French citizens who supported the #ParisAgainstTrump march have many reasons
to disagree. Mikael Zenouda, an activist with Act Up-Paris, said he marched
because he is worried that "homophobic crimes will increase in France."
Abdel-Rahmène Azzouzi, who founded the group Je Te Voix, warned, "Minorities
should not be steppingstones for presidential ambitions." The goal of Je Te
Voix, whose name is a pun that means "I see you" and "I call you out," is to
bear witness to racist, xenophobic and misogynistic speech by French
presidential hopefuls. Mr. Azzouzi's message to Mr. Trump was: "Don't mess with
us. We are watching you."

Adiaratou Diarrassouba, a co-founder of the blog L'Afro, told me that in her
view: "The United States has made real something that could now happen here. We
support denouncing the election of someone who makes racist remarks." And Magali
Fontaine of Black Lives Matter France observed: "When Barack Obama was elected,
it was symbolically very important. Trump's election is also symbolically
powerful."

Stephen Bannon, who will be Mr. Trump's chief White House strategist and is the
former executive chairman of the right-wing Breitbart News Network, has made it
clear that he plans to leverage that symbolic power in France. Back in July, the
French website Radio Londres reported that he said: "We think France is the
place to be." He even said Breitbart was "looking to open a Breitbart Paris,
even a Breitbart France." Days after Mr. Trump's victory, Marion Maréchal-Le
Pen, Marine Le Pen's niece and a rising force in the National Front, tweeted, "I
answer yes to the invitation of Stephen Bannon, CEO of @realDonaldTrump
presidential campaign, to work together."

The day after the Trump protest, French voters delivered an election surprise of
their own, giving François Fillon a resounding victory in the first round of Les
Républicains' primary. Mr. Fillon had been third in the polls, behind Alain
Juppé, the more moderate front-runner, and former President Nicolas Sarkozy.
Then, on Sunday, in a runoff vote against Mr. Juppé, Mr. Fillon won his party's
nomination with 67 percent of the vote.

Mr. Fillon, a former prime minister, is hardly cut from the same populist cloth
as Ms. Le Pen. But, his victory is not good news for French citizens worried
about a tack to the political right.

In addition to pledging a makeover of France's economy along the lines of what
Margaret Thatcher did in Britain, Mr. Fillon is a staunch social conservative.
His supporters include opponents of France's 2013 "marriage for all" law and,
though Mr. Fillon says he won't reverse the law, he promises to move against
adoption by gay couples. Mr. Fillon also believes that France has no reason to
be ashamed of its colonial past - a time, according to him, when France
generously shared its culture - and he has scolded immigrants, saying, "When you
arrive in someone else's house, out of courtesy, you don't make the rules."
France, Mr. Fillon insists, is not - and will never be - multicultural.

With President François Hollande's approval rating down to 4 percent and his
Socialist Party in profound disarray, French voters could be faced with a choice
in the final round of the presidential election between the populist far-right
candidate Marine Le Pen and the establishment right-wing candidate François
Fillon. Either way, French progressives will have plenty to protest.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             752 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 29, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

The Evangelicalism of Old White Men Is Dead;
Op-Ed Contributors

BYLINE: TONY CAMPOLO and SHANE CLAIBORNE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 975 words



HIGHLIGHT: We need a new Christian movement.


Correction Appended

As the election retreats like a hurricane heading back out to sea, first
responders are assessing the damage left in its wake. One casualty is the
reputation of evangelicalism.

Evangelicalism was closely associated with the campaign of Donald J. Trump, and
more than 80 percent of white evangelicals voted for the president-elect. This,
despite large numbers of African-American, Latino, Asian, young and female
evangelicals who were fiercely opposed to the racism, sexism and xenophobia of
Mr. Trump's campaign and the hypocrisy of a candidate who built a casino empire
while flouting morality.

As a result, much of the good that went by the name "evangelicalism" has been
clouded over; now a new movement is needed to replace it.

When it comes to religious identity in America, the fastest-growing group is the
"nones." Nearly a quarter of all Americans, and over 35 percent of millennials,
report no religious affiliation. Nones, many of whom grew up within
evangelicalism, often still affirm faith in God. They left the church because
they gave up on evangelical leadership. Nothing sums up their objections more
clearly than evangelicals' embrace of Mr. Trump. Didn't Jesus say, "Blessed are
the meek" and "Love your enemies"?

Throughout the campaign, there was dissent even within the ranks of
evangelicalism's most conservative institutions. While the old guard, like the
Focus on the Family founder James Dobson, were ardent Trump supporters, the
best-selling evangelical author Max Lucado and the Southern Baptist leader
Russell Moore were both early critics. At Liberty University, the largest
evangelical college in the country, thousands of students signed a petition
denouncing the support of its president, Jerry Falwell Jr., for Mr. Trump and
insisting that they were more interested in being Christian than in being
Republican.

Andy Crouch, the executive editor of Christianity Today, criticized both
candidates, writing that enthusiasm for Mr. Trump "gives our neighbors ample
reason to doubt that we believe Jesus is Lord." He added, "They see that some of
us are so self-interested, and so self-protective, that we will ally ourselves
with someone who violates all that is sacred to us."

As white male evangelists, we have no problem admitting that the future does not
lie with us. It lies with groups like the National Latino Evangelical Coalition,
led by Gabriel Salguero, or the Moral Monday movement, led by William Barber II,
who has challenged the news media on its narrow portrayal of evangelicals. For
decades, we have worked within evangelicalism to lift up the voices of these
"other evangelicals."

But we cannot continue to allow sisters and brothers who are leading God's
movement to be considered "other." We are not confident that evangelicalism is a
community in which younger, nonwhite voices can flourish. And we are not willing
to let our faith be the collateral damage of evangelicalism.

We want to be clear: We are not suggesting a new kind of Christianity that
simply backs the Democratic Party. Jesus is neither a Democrat nor a Republican
- even if, as William Sloane Coffin Jr. once said, his heart leans left. Many
faithful Christians did not vote for Hillary Clinton because of their commitment
to a consistent pro-life agenda. True faith can never pledge allegiance to
anything less than Jesus.

But Jesus-centered faith needs a new name. Christians have retired outdated
labels before. During the late 19th century, when scientific rationalism fueled
the questioning of Scripture, "fundamentalism" arose as an intelligent defense
of Christianity. By the 1930s, however, fundamentalism was seen as
anti-intellectual and judgmental. It was then that the term "evangelicalism" was
put forward by Christianity Today's first editor, Carl F. H. Henry, as a new
banner under which a broad coalition of Jesus followers could unite.

But beginning with the culture wars of the 1980s, the religious right made a
concerted effort to align evangelicalism with the Republican Party. By the
mid-'90s, the word had lost its positive connotations with many Americans. They
came to see Christians - and evangelicals in particular - as anti-women,
anti-gay, anti-environment and anti-immigrant and as the champions of guns and
war.

Mr. Trump did not create these contradictions, but his victory has pulled the
roof off the building we once called home. It's time to build a new home.

Next year marks the 500th anniversary of the beginning of the Reformation, one
of the most significant moments in the history of Christianity. The reformers
were navigating many of the same currents and contradictions that we face today.
Perhaps we need a new reformation - one that invites Christians to return to the
teachings of Jesus and offers our neighbors a truer vision of how he lived and
moved in the world.

The words of Jesus - which are printed in red in many Bibles - could not be more
relevant today. Despite the terrible things done in the name of Jesus, a
Christianity that stays true to his words has survived for 2,000 years. Maybe
this is a moment in our history for evangelicals to repent and be "born again"
again as Red Letter Christians.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Tony Campolo (@TonyCampolo), a spiritual adviser to former President Bill
Clinton, is a professor emeritus at Eastern University. Shane Claiborne
(@ShaneClaiborne) is the president of Red Letter Christians.


Correction: December 2, 2016, Friday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An Op-Ed
essay on Wednesday about the future of the evangelical movement after Donald
Trump's election included an outdated affiliation for a Trump supporter, James
Dobson, the founder of Focus on the Family. He left the organization in 2010.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             753 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times
                                     (News)

                      November 29, 2016 Tuesday 17:14 EST

What We're Reading;
News

BYLINE: ANDREA KANNAPELL

LENGTH: 338 words



HIGHLIGHT: Get recommendations from New York Times reporters and editors,
highlighting great stories from around the web. Today, great reads from Kim
Severson, Sam Dolnick and others.


Get recommendations from New York Times reporters and editors, highlighting
great stories from around the web. What We're Reading emails are sent twice a
week. Sign up \xC2

Bitter Southerner

Jimmy Carter's Foundation

The kind, smart editors at Bitter Southerner take us to Plains, Ga., for an
intimate and richly photographed look at the first postelection Sunday school
class taught by the former President Jimmy Carter, who says love is the answer
and reveals that he phoned both Trump and Clinton the day after the election: "I
was highly qualified to make both phone calls," Mr. Carter quips. - Kim Severson

Southern Poverty Law Center

Documented

One of the nation's foremost watchdogs on civil rights gives a troubling picture
of the state of our melting pot: more than 900 reports of harassment and
possible hate crimes in the days after the U.S. presidential election.
Immigrants were the most frequent subjects, but blacks, gays and Muslims were
also targets.  Schools and colleges were the most frequent settings, a possible
harbinger of what's to come.   - Adeel Hassan

The Broad Experience

Ahead Together

For women of color of working-class backgrounds, a white - and white-collar -
workplace can be an intimidating place. What I love about this episode of "The
Broad Experience," a podcast that explores the successes and challenges faced by
women at work, is that it turns difficult experiences into positive lessons
learned. - Fernanda Santos

The Paris Review

The Biographer's Eyes

This interview published earlier this year with Robert Caro, a titan of
journalism, should be required reading for every writer and reporter. His
obsession with nailing down every detail is inspiring. I can't stop thinking
about what he asks everyone he interviews: "Make me see it!"  - Sam Dolnick

NPR

Getting to Yes

From NPR's Story Corps, a three-minute tale of love and acceptance across the
generation gap. This one came on the radio while I was headed out for my morning
run. It made me pull over and just breathe for a while. - John Schwartz

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             754 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 29, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

The Future of the American Center;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 842 words



HIGHLIGHT: Donald Trump's victory smashes traditions of party loyalty,
presenting opportunities between the extremes.


Over the past few decades, party loyalty has been the defining feature of
national politics. Especially in the House but even in the Senate, members
deferred to their party leaders. Congress as a whole deferred to the presidency.
Members of the president's own party acted as his foot soldiers. Members of the
other party acted as his opposition.

But Donald Trump's victory smashes all that. He is hostile to the Republican
establishment. His proposals cut across orthodox partisan lines.

As Bill Kristol told me, the coming Congress may not look like the recent
Congresses, when party-line voting was the rule. A vote on an infrastructure
bill may look very different from a vote on health care or education or foreign
policy. This may be a Congress with many caucuses - floating coalitions rather
than just follow-the-leader obedience.

Meanwhile, as Christopher DeMuth wrote recently in The Wall Street Journal,
committee chairmen may reassert authority against the executive branch. Trump's
authoritarian style represents an assault on the traditional separation of
powers. He may end up energizing all those constitutional forms and practices he
stands against.

What's about to happen in Washington may be a little like the end of the Cold
War - bipolarity gives way to multipolarity. A system dominated by two
party-line powers gives way to a system with a lot of different power centers.
Instead of just R's and D's, there will be a Trump-dominated populist
nationalism, a more libertarian Freedom Caucus, a Bernie Sanders/Elizabeth
Warren progressive caucus, a Chuck Schumer/Nancy Pelosi Democratic old guard.

The most important caucus formation will be in the ideological center. There's a
lot of room between the alt-right and the alt-left, between Trumpian
authoritarianism and Sanders socialism.

Until now, people in that space have been slow to create donor networks, slow to
form think tanks, slow to build coalitions of moderate legislators. But suddenly
there's a flurry of activity between the extremes.

For example, Bill Kristol and Bill Galston have worked in the White Houses of
different parties and had voted for the opposite presidential candidates in
every election for four decades. But Donald Trump has reminded them how much
they agree on the fundamentals.

The two Bills have now issued a joint statement calling for "a New Center." It's
a defense of the basic institutions and practices of our constitutional order,
which now seem under assault. It's an attempt to learn from the election results
and craft a governing philosophy that people of different parties can rally
around.

That's in the realm of ideas. In the realm of organization there's also a flurry
of activity. David Burstein's group, Run for America, is recruiting a new
generation of political candidates.

The most active centrist organization, No Labels, began six years ago in
opposition to polarized, cutthroat politics. The problem with the group back
then was that there was no future to a political movement whose first name is
"No." You have to be for something.

But under the leadership of its undeterrable co-founder, Nancy Jacobson, No
Labels has evolved. It created a package of reform ideas to make Congress and
the executive branch work together. It created an active congressional caucus,
called the Problem Solvers Caucus, which now has 80 members, divided roughly
evenly between both parties.

It has been building grass-roots activities, which have so far engaged one
million people. It created a "super PAC" so that members of Congress who vote as
centrists can get some political protection. It recently published a policy
playbook with 60 proposals to create jobs, reform the tax code, balance the
budget and secure entitlement programs.

Going forward, moderates face four big challenges. First, deepen a positive
national vision that is not merely a positioning between left and right. Second,
elevate a new generation of political leaders so the movement is not just a
retread of retired establishment types.

Third, build a mass movement of actual voters, not just financiers and
think-tank johnnies. Fourth, have the courage to stand together as a swing
legislative caucus, when the pressure from the party leaderships becomes
intense.

It's an uphill climb, but this is a fertile moment. The Trump/Sanders era is
going to create new opposition blocs, filled with people who never thought they
would be working together.

Moreover, the future of this country is not going to be found in protecting jobs
that are long gone or in catering to the fears of aging whites. There is a
raging need for a movement that embraces economic dynamism, global engagement
and social support - that is part Milton Friedman on economic policy, Ronald
Reagan on foreign policy and Franklin Roosevelt on welfare policy.

The new center will probably start as a legislative caucus with members of both
parties. Where it goes from there is anybody's guess.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             755 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 29, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump, Ohio State University, 'Hamilton': Your Tuesday Briefing

BYLINE: SEAN ALFANO

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1095 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

Trump's transition itinerary.

President-elect Donald J. Trump is scheduled to meet today with Senator Bob
Corker of Tennessee, a candidate for secretary of state. He also has dinner
plans with Mitt Romney, whose candidacy for that post has divided Republicans
because of his criticism of Mr. Trump during the campaign.

Mr. Trump has nominatedElaine Chao for transportation secretary, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. Ms. Chao served as labor secretary in
President George W. Bush's cabinet and is the wife of the Senate majority
leader, Mitch McConnell.

The president-elect is expected to announce today his choice for secretary of
health and human services: Representative Tom Price of Georgia, a vocal critic
of the Affordable Care Act.

Election recounts.

Officials in Wisconsin said a review of the state's votes would most likely
start on Thursday. Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential candidate, filed a
legal challenge of results in Pennsylvania, and she plans to request a recount
in Michigan, which on Monday officially declared Mr. Trump the winner in the
state.

When the president-elect wrote on Twitter that California was among the states
with voter fraud, he didn't provide evidence. Our analysis of results there
found nothing to support the claim.

Attack at Ohio State University.

The police are searching for a motive after Abdul Artan, a student from Somalia,
drove his car onto a sidewalk and slashed passers-by with a butcher knife,
wounding 11. Mr. Artan was then shot and killed.

The F.B.I. is investigating comments on Facebook indicating that he may have
felt that Muslims were being persecuted.

Deadly plane crash in Colombia.

Rescue crews were trying to reach a plane that was carrying 81 people, including
members of a Brazilian soccer club, that went down on the outskirts of Medellín
late Monday.

There are as many as five survivors, the Colombian authorities said.

Political turmoil in South Korea.

President Park Geun-hye said today that she was willing to resign before her
term ends, in an effort to head off an impeachment vote over a corruption
scandal. "I am giving up everything now," she said in a televised address.

Opposition parties have called for the vote to proceed on Friday.

Wildfires in Tennessee.

A storm system may provide much needed rain to aid firefighters working to
extinguish a blaze that has forced the mandatory evacuations for areas in and
around Gatlinburg.

Emergency officials there said the fire had affected about 100 homes and 30
businesses. The region has been dealing with a severe drought for weeks.

Business

A map circulating on Facebook showing the names and addresses of Jewish people
in Berlin has led to a standoff between the company and the German authorities
trying to enforce hate speech laws.

In the U.S., news outlets are assessing whether to use the term "alt-right."

$3.3 million. That's how much "Hamilton" made last week, a record for an
eight-performance week by a Broadway show.

The feat followed a weekend of unexpected drama when the vice president-elect,
Mike Pence, attended the show and the cast addressed him directly.

"Throwing stuff away is only half the battle. You have to stop stuff from coming
into the house in the first place." Ourmoneycolumnist offers advice on
preventing"stuff" from taking over your home and crippling your finances.

U.S. stocks were down on Monday. Here's a snapshot of global markets.

Noteworthy

Bringing a church back to life.

A Greek Orthodox church destroyed on Sept. 11, 2001, is being rebuilt as the St.
Nicholas National Shrine, set to open in 2018.

Our latest 360 video shows a cross being installed on the dome.

News from space.

Thanks to Cassini, the NASA craft that has been circling Saturn and its moons
for 12 years, we know that there are methane lakes on Titan and jets of water
shooting from Enceladus.

Cassini is beginning thefinal months of its mission before crashing into the
distant planet's clouds.

Closer to home, space junk floating near Earth is presenting a problem for
satellites. A Japanese entrepreneur says he wants to be space's trash collector.

Lives of comedians.

In "Born a Crime: Stories From a South African Childhood," Trevor Noah describes
growing up under apartheid. "The Daily Show" host's memoir is also "a love
letter to the author's remarkable mother," our critic writes.

"Last Girl Before Freeway" is a new biography of Joan Rivers. The author calls
the comic, who died in 2014, "one of the world's most uninhibited mean girls."

Recipe of the day.

This roasted salmon with mustard and brown sugar makes for a quick weeknight
meal. While it bakes, read about our visit with the chefs at the National Museum
of African American History and Culture and how they're trying to tell the story
of the African diaspora through food.

Back Story

As bike-share programs have proliferated in cities around the world, a clear
point of friction has emerged for bicycle commuters: How do they protect their
fragile skulls?

Many are unwilling to share helmets with strangers, because of germs and stuff.
And carrying a helmet at all times can be a burden.

Luckily, a selection of foldable helmets has emerged to help solve the problem.
This month, one such product, the EcoHelmet, won the 2016 James Dyson award,
named for the British designer best known for making high-tech vacuum cleaners.

The helmet's inventor, Isis Shiffer, will receive $45,000 to further develop the
cheap, recyclable product, which is made from cardstock paper.

The helmet uses a honeycomb pattern to diffuse the impact of a blow, and Ms.
Shiffer has said that it is as safe as a standard polystyrene helmet. But if
you're unconvinced, there are other options.

The Plixi helmet, from Overade, is more like a traditional helmet and folds down
to a portable size. A collapsible option from a company called Closca has the
added benefit of making you look like a character in a science-fiction epic.

Helmets.org, a helmet advocacy program and nonprofit, has a handy list of
foldable helmets, including whether they meet European and American safety
standards. You can find that here.

Jonah Engel Bromwich contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of
the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the
web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             756 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      November 29, 2016 Tuesday 00:00 EST

Facebook Shouldn't Fact-Check;
Op-Ed Contributor

BYLINE: JESSICA LESSIN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 833 words



HIGHLIGHT: It's dangerous to promise that a social network will vet what's true.



We finally got a grudging mea culpa from Mark Zuckerberg: an admission that fake
news is a significant problem that his social network must help solve.

But as a journalist who has been covering the inner workings of the technology
industry for more than a decade, I find the calls for Facebook to accept broad
responsibility for fact-checking the news, including by hiring editors and
reporters, deeply unsettling.

What those demanding that Facebook accept "responsibility" for becoming the
dominant news aggregator of our time seem to be overlooking is that there's a
big difference between the editorial power that individual news organizations
wield and that which Facebook could. Such editorial power in Facebook's hands
would be unprecedented and dangerous.

We can all agree that Facebook should do much more to make sure that blatantly
fabricated claims that Donald J. Trump won the popular vote or received the
pope's endorsement don't spread and are, at a minimum, labeled fakes.

Facebook admits, and my sources confirm, that it can do a better job of this by
helping users flag dubious articles and predicting fakes based on data it has
for search. This doesn't have to involve humans: Facebook could decide to label
content as suspected as fake if it was flagged a certain number of times and if
it displayed other questionable attributes. Such a move would not mean
Facebook's taking broad responsibility for what's true.

But hiring editors to enforce accuracy - or even promising to enforce accuracy
by partnering with third parties - would create the perception that Facebook is
policing the "truth," and that is worrisome. The first reason has to do with the
nature of Facebook's business. The second has to do with the news business.

One thing is clear to anyone who has worked in a newsroom: Not all fact-checking
decisions are black and white.

Did the pope endorse Mr. Trump? He did not.

But did the F.B.I. reopen the Hillary Clinton email investigation? That's a
little tougher. Although major news outlets like CNN said that it had, the
agency did not in fact reopen the inquiry, which would have been a far more
significant move than what it did do (which was to take a look at newly
discovered emails to see if it should reconsider its decision to close the
case). Erroneous reporting by established organizations is a bigger threat than
fabricated stories, and far more rampant.

News organizations like my own publication make these judgments a million times
a day. And we sometimes get them wrong. But we are checked by the power of our
competitors and, for news organizations with a subscription business, by readers
who stop paying us if we fail them.

To be sure, this business model is under great stress as people lose trust in
news organizations. But I don't believe the solution is to give up on it,
particularly if the alternative is to cede the power of authentication to
companies like Facebook.

I'm not comfortable trusting the truth to one gatekeeper that has a mission and
a fiduciary duty to increase advertising revenue, especially when revenue is
tied more to engagement than information. Facebook continues to consider, for
example, how it can win approval to enter the Chinese market, including by
censoring content. For the company, business can come before truth.

No matter how many editors Facebook hired, it would be unable to monitor the
volume of information that flows through its site, and it would be similarly
impossible for readers to verify what was checked. The minute Facebook accepts
responsibility for ferreting out misinformation, users will start believing that
it is fact-checking everything on the site.

And what about more private content in groups or messages? For that to be
fact-checked, Facebook users would have to trade their privacy (as an analogy,
imagine AT&T fact-checking phone calls). That isn't a position I think Facebook
would ever want to be in.

The second reason I am fearful of Facebook as fact checker is what it will do to
journalism.

If you don't believe that Facebook's policies could sway the news industry, you
haven't been paying attention over the past five years. Publications have been
suckered into tweaking their content and their business models to try to live
off the traffic Facebook sends them. They've favored Facebook clicks over their
core readers, and are no closer to addressing plummeting print revenues. What
would happen if the distribution of their articles on Facebook was tied to
submitting data about their sources or conforming to some site-endorsed
standards about what constitutes a trustworthy news source?

My fellow reporters and editors will argue that I am letting Facebook off too
easy. While my husband did work there for a brief period, my position isn't a
defense of the company, which I have covered critically for years. I simply
don't trust Facebook, or any one company, with the responsibility for
determining what is true.

Jessica Lessin is the founder and chief executive of The Information.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             757 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 30, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

E.U. Plans Big Increase in Military Spending

BYLINE: JAMES KANTER

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1053 words



HIGHLIGHT: The plan comes at a time when the bloc is seeking to rely less on the
security guarantees of the United States.


BRUSSELS - European Union officials announced plans for a big increase in
military spending on Wednesday, pledging to take greater responsibility for
their security at a time when the United States appears to be taking a step back
in its role in the world.

The bloc's top officials proposed spending 5.5 billion euros, or $5.8 billion, a
year to help governments acquire hardware, including helicopters and drones, and
to develop military technology.

Wary of concerns about consolidation of power in Brussels as member governments
are under pressure from populist forces, officials stressed that the plan was in
no way a step toward creating a European Union army. Member countries would own
the hardware that was purchased, and much of the money would go to European
companies.

But the proposal, known as the European Defense Action Plan, follows calls by
Donald J. Trump, the United States president-elect, for members of NATO to
devote 2 percent of their gross domestic product to military spending. (Of the
28 nations in the European Union, 22 are also part of NATO.)

"If Europe does not take care of its own security, nobody else will do it for
us," said Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, the
executive arm of the European Union. "A strong, competitive and innovative
defense industrial base is what will give us strategic autonomy."

Total military spending by European Union governments was about (EURO)200
billion last year, but the union does not currently have a budget for military
research or procurement. The plan foresees a pilot phase of (EURO)90 million, or
$95 million, up to 2020 - and (EURO)500 million, or $528 million, a year after
that - for research into technologies like drones and for cybersecurity tools.

A second plank of the plan foresees spending 10 times that amount to help
governments develop and buy hardware. But rather than drawing on the shared
European Union budget, member states would make individual contributions, and
some of the money might come from project-related bonds.

Obama administration officials welcomed the increased spending. "It is no secret
that we've been asking them to do this for years," said one senior
administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss
alliance relations. But the official also said it was imperative that Mr. Trump
reassured allies that his administration's commitment to collective defense of
NATO allies would be solid.

During his presidential campaign, Mr. Trump questioned whether the United States
would automatically defend NATO allies if they were attacked, and said American
support would depend on the willingness of those countries to pay their fair
share for military protection. But since then, a number of Republican lawmakers
and foreign policy experts - including those in close contact with Mr. Trump
since he won the election - have insisted that the American commitment to NATO
will remain strong.

European Union leaders will discuss the proposal at a summit meeting in
December. The member governments still must approve it, and that could be a
lengthy process given concerns about sovereignty.

Politicians in countries like Lithuania and Poland, for example, might question
whether the additional spending might be better devoted to bolstering NATO as a
resurgent Russia is raising alarms in much of Central and Eastern Europe.

Britain could be an obstacle, too. It has long stood in the way of deeper
European military cooperation, which London fears could undermine NATO. British
voters decided in a June referendum to leave the European Union, but the lengthy
process of exiting the bloc has not yet legally begun.

European officials "know that it will not be easy" to carry out the plans,
Elzbieta Bienkowska, the European Union commissioner for the internal market and
industry, said on Wednesday. Federica Mogherini, the union's foreign policy
chief, said the plans did not amount to competition with NATO.

Agreeing to the spending could help European countries get over a "Trump hump"
created by the president-elect's demands, said Nick Witney, a senior policy
fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations.

"This spending is very NATO-compatible, and even money from the European budget
is a fair basis for a country to claim it's chipping more into defense," said
Mr. Witney, a former chief executive of the European Defense Agency, a forum for
European Union member states to cooperate on defense initiatives.

"On the other hand, the commitment to spending 2 percent on defense is meant to
be about the long haul, and about genuinely readjusting national budget
priorities, and I don't see this plan as moving European NATO members much
closer to that goal," he said, adding that much of the plan was based on debt
financing.

Jyrki Katainen, a vice president of the European Commission, said the timing of
the plan had "nothing to do with American elections" since it had been in the
works since 2014.

A longstanding goal was to avoid duplication of effort in military procurement,
which is mostly done on a national basis, and to improve the compatibility of
the various military hardware that European countries acquire, he said.

One example of inefficiency in European defense was the development of the
Airbus A400M military aircraft, European officials said. If the proposed plan is
adopted, problems that include defining where to place doors for paratroopers -
which had contributed to the development of the aircraft taking about a decade
longer than necessary - could be more easily resolved, they said.

The officials said more military spending could have a positive effect on the
sluggish European economy.

"Boosting defense R&D in Europe is crucial to maintain critical competences and
technologies! Thumbs up," Dirk Hoke, the chief executive for Airbus Defense and
Space, wrote onTwitter.

Follow James Kanter on Twitter @jameskanter.Helene Cooper contributed reporting
from Washington.

Related Articles


     ·    NATO Chief 'Absolutely Confident' Donald Trump Will Maintain U.S. Role
     ·    European Leaders Gather to Grapple With Donald Trump's Victory
     ·    As Obama Exits World Stage, Angela Merkel May Be the Liberal West's
          Last Defender
     ·    Donald Trump's Remarks Rattle NATO Allies and Stoke Debate on Cost
          Sharing
     ·    Donald Trump Sets Conditions for Defending NATO Allies Against Attack


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             758 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 30, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Recount Bids in 3 States Seem the Longest of Long Shots

BYLINE: STEVE EDER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1066 words



HIGHLIGHT: An effort championed by Jill Stein begins on Thursday, answers to
some often-asked questions about the planned reviews of Election Day vote
totals.


It has been nearly a month since Donald J. Trump beat Hillary Clinton to win the
presidency. But efforts continue in three battleground states to take another
look at the election results.

On Thursday, Wisconsin is set to begin the labor-intensive task of reviewing
nearly three million ballots in a recount across all of the state's 72 counties.
Michigan is likely to follow suit starting on Friday. And in Pennsylvania, there
are persisting legal challenges to the presidential results as well.

It is extremely unlikely that this attempt - spearheaded by Jill Stein, the
Green Party presidential candidate - will prompt any of these states to flip to
Mrs. Clinton, as Mr. Trump leads by a combined margin of around 100,000 votes.
Mrs. Clinton would need to be declared the winner in all three states to reverse
the Electoral College outcome.

In addition to Ms. Stein's concerns about vote tampering or hacking, Mr. Trump
has levied a baseless claim that he would have won the popular vote had it not
been for millions of illegal voters.

Nevertheless, the multistate endeavor is slated to begin Thursday. Despite the
attention it will receive, it figures to be a far cry from the drama that
gripped the nation during the Florida recount in 2000.

Here are some key questions and answers about how it might play out:

Why are the recounts such a long shot?

While Mr. Trump's lead in each of the three states is narrow - he is ahead by
22,177 votes in Wisconsin, 70,638 in Pennsylvania and 10,704 in Michigan - the
margins seem too large for Mrs. Clinton to overcome. A campaign lawyer for Mrs.
Clinton, Marc Elias, noted that those gaps would exceed "the largest margin ever
overcome in a recount."

Experts believe it would require the discovery of widespread tampering or
hacking of voting systems to move such a large number of votes, and there is no
evidence that either has occurred.

What are the possible outcomes, and who decides?

It is possible the recounts will result in a change in the totals, but it is
highly unlikely that enough votes will move to displace Mr. Trump. The states
are operating under a tight schedule, as they need to certify their results
several days before the Electoral College meets on Dec. 19. If the recounts
reveal significant disparities, they could be contested in court.

How will the recount work in Wisconsin?

County clerks and canvass workers were set to be briefed on Wednesday about
recount procedures, a detailed process that includes either a review of votes by
hand or the retabulating of ballots.

The Stein campaign went to court to demand a full statewide hand recount, which
was rejected, so local elections officials will be able to decide how to review
votes. The updated tallies must be submitted to the state elections commission
by Dec. 12, with certification the next day.

Is it the same in Michigan?

The process is similar in Michigan. Ms. Stein officially requested the recount
on Wednesday, setting in motion the process to begin Friday. In Michigan,
another candidate - such as Mr. Trump - could object to the recount by appealing
to the Board of State Canvassers. Michigan Republicans have blasted the recount
talk, given that there is no evidence of fraud or malfeasance.

Like Wisconsin, Michigan would have less than two weeks to certify the results
of its recount.

Why does Pennsylvania seem to be lagging behind?

Ms. Stein is also seeking another look at ballots in Pennsylvania, which allows
voters to petition their local precincts for recounts. But the Pennsylvania
State Department has said many of the deadlines to file petitions have passed.

Who is paying for all of this?

Recounts are expensive because of the staffing needed, and the condensed time
frame that will require work on nights and weekends. Ms. Stein's campaign
created a website to raise money for the cause. As of Wednesday afternoon, she
had raised $6.6 million. Originally, the fund-raising goal to cover the costs in
the three states was $7 million, but it was increased to $9.5 million after cost
estimates in Wisconsin were $2.5 million above earlier projections.

Ms. Stein's campaign paid the state of Michigan $973,250 on Wednesday, but Ruth
Johnson, Michigan's secretary of state, said taxpayers could end up footing up
to $4 million in additional costs.

Ms. Stein has said the money raised for the recount is kept separate from her
campaign accounts, and that any surplus funds would be used for "election
integrity efforts and to promote voting system reform."

Why is Ms. Stein the champion of the recount effort?

Ms. Stein finished a distant fourth in the popular vote on Nov. 8, but with her
recount challenge she has taken on a more prominent role in the election's
aftermath. She says she is pushing for a more "transparent and accountable
vote."

What role, if any, is Mrs. Clinton playing?

The Clinton campaign has taken a more passive approach. It has said it would
join in the recount pushed by Ms. Stein and pay for its lawyers to be present at
recount sites, but it is not contributing money for the recounts.

When the Stein campaign sued for the hand recount in Wisconsin, lawyers for Mrs.
Clinton intervened, seeking to join the suit. But her campaign has been largely
quiet, aside from a lawyer explaining in a post online that they would
"participate" in a way to encourage fairness.

How is Mr. Trump involved?

A spokesman for Mr. Trump, Jason Miller, said this week that the campaign would
"continue to do our due diligence and monitor the situation, but again, there's
no chance that anything changes after this fraudulent recount effort has
concluded," noting that Mrs. Clinton had conceded.

As for Mr. Trump himself, he has gone on Twitter to raise his own concerns about
the vote, but has called the recount efforts a "scam" by the Green Party and
also chastised the Clinton campaign for joining. "Nothing will change," he said.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTO: Jill Stein, who was the Green Party nominee, has called for a recount of
presidential votes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Vote Recount Push Advances, but Reversing Trump's Win Is Unlikely
     ·    Hillary Clinton's Team to Join Wisconsin Recount Pushed by Jill Stein
     ·    U.S. Officials Defend Integrity of Vote, Despite Hacking Fears
     ·    Hillary Clinton Supporters Call for Vote Recount in Battleground
          States


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             759 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 30, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

A Snapshot Captures the Awkward Courtship Between Trump and Romney

BYLINE: KATIE ROGERS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 817 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rain was falling outside. Young garlic soup and frog legs were on the
menu. In other words, It was the perfect occasion for a photo op.


At Jean-Georges, a three-star Michelin restaurant on the first floor of his
namesake hotel in New York, Donald J. Trump took time out of his Tuesday
schedule to share a four-course meal with Mitt Romney and Reince Priebus, his
soon-to-be White House chief of staff.

Rain was falling outside. Young garlic soup and frog legs were on the menu. In
other words, it was the perfect occasion for a photo op.

There were plenty of pictures taken of this meeting, but one stood out in
particular. It cut Mr. Priebus out of the frame. It showed Mr. Trump leaning
forward over his food - perhaps the soup, with an errant frog leg inching its
way to the top of the bowl? - with a sly smile.

And then there was Mr. Romney.

The former Massachusetts governor, who has been mentioned as possible secretary
of state in the Trump administration, was photographed as he turned, his chin
leaning into the crook of his neck, and gazed with a furrowed brow into the
camera. On social media, viewers - many of them journalists, authors, denizens
of Hollywood and liberals for the most part - saw what they thought to be a
pained expression.

For the first time in his life, Mitt Romney is All Of Us.
pic.twitter.com/e8TyFgmtDl - John Green (@johngreen) November 30, 2016

I made the Trump/Romney photo black and white, and it looks like a Twilight Zone
episode where a guy just made a foolish deal with the Devil
pic.twitter.com/froiDYDJei - Adam Murray (@Atom_Murray) November 30, 2016

Of course, there were more important things happening on Tuesday:

- Steven Mnuchin, a financier with connections to Wall Street and Hollywood, was
reported to have been tapped for Treasury Secretary. Mr. Mnuchin got his start
at Goldman Sachs, a frequent target of Mr. Trump's ire on the campaign trail.

- Carrier, a large air-conditioning company based in Indianapolis, said that it
would keep about 1,000 jobs in the state after having prepared to move about
2,000 jobs to Mexico. The company is said to be receiving economic incentives
from Indiana to stay.

- Also, Mr. Trump set off a barrage of coverage after he said in an early
morning tweetthat people who burned the United States flag should perhaps be
jailed or lose their citizenship.

In this era, a lot can happen in one day.

We'll never really know what caused this uncomfortable-looking glimpse, of
course. For all we know, it was a bad scallop. Maybe Mr. Romney doesn't enjoy
frog legs. And again, the photo, by Drew Angerer, was one of several taken.

But Mr. Romney's statement to reporters after the meeting seemed to reinforce a
conclusion that many drew about this frozen instant of time.

"He did something I tried to do and was unsuccessful in accomplishing: He won
the general election," Mr. Romney said after the meal. "He continues with a
message of inclusion and bringing people together, and his vision is something
which obviously connected with the American people in a very powerful way."

It was a departure from a statement made by Mr. Romney nine months ago, when he
tried to draw support away from Mr. Trump in a speech, saying that the candidate
was "playing the American public for suckers." Mr. Romney targeted Mr. Trump on
his vague economic policies, his bankruptcies, his admiration of Vladimir Putin,
and his marital infidelity.

He also invited the public to watch how Mr. Trump responded to his speech.

"Will he talk about our policy differences?" Mr. Romney asked. "Or will he
attack me with every imaginable low-road insult? This may tell you what you need
to know about his temperament, his stability and his suitability to be
president."

Mr. Trump quickly returned fire during a campaign rally in Maine, where he
called Mr. Romney "irrelevant" and a "failed candidate." Mr. Trump's supporters
booed and cheered.

[Video: Donald Trump's Full Response to Mitt Romney Speech  Watch on YouTube.]

"He failed badly," Mr. Trump said of Mr. Romney. "That was a race, I have to say
folks, that should have been won. That was a race that absolutely should have
been won, and I don't know what happened to him."

Mr. Trump also described how Mr. Romney had begged for his endorsement in that
race. "I could have said, 'Mitt, drop to your knees.' He would've dropped to his
knees."

Whatever happens with Mr. Romney's continuing public job interview, the
Jean-Georges photo op was one of the stranger turns in the aftermath of the
election. Already, articles listing all the critical things Mr. Romney and Mr.
Trump have said about each other had become something of a genre. There had been
calls for a public apology from Mr. Romney. And Mr. Trump's inner circle was
seemingly in open battleover the very idea of him joining the team.

It all brings to mind the internet trope, drawn from an old Nationwide Insurance
ad: life comes at you fast.

Try not to spill your soup.

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Victory Tour Set as Cabinet Comes Together
     ·    Transcript of Mitt Romney's Speech on Donald Trump


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             760 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 30, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Democrats Claim to Win Senate Seat on Long Island, but G.O.P. Disagrees

BYLINE: JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1088 words



HIGHLIGHT: Michael Venditto, the Republican incumbent, and John E. Brooks, his
Democratic challenger, remained in a close contest amid objections from both
parties.


Painstaking vote counts. Talk of possible fraud. Suggestions of racism and
ageism, and disparaging comments about people with disabilities. And none of it
had anything to do with Donald J. Trump.

With the presidential election fast receding into the past, there was still
campaign drama unfolding on Wednesday on the South Shore of Long Island, where
the race for New York State Senate's Eighth District has been contested with the
ardor and election board intrigue of the Bush-Gore contest in Florida in 2000.

The race pitted the incumbent, Michael Venditto, a first-term Republican with
some family political baggage, against John E. Brooks, a former insurance
executive who now seems tantalizingly close to capturing a seat that few
Democrats thought was winnable until recently.

By late Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Brooks - a longtime Republican running as a
Democrat - had declared victory after a count of absentee and affidavit ballots.
With more than 130,000 votes now recorded, Mr. Brooks had a razor-thin lead of
41 votes, according to David J. Gugerty, the Democratic commissioner of
elections in Nassau County, which makes up the bulk of the district.

Mr. Brooks issued a statement announcing himself "humbled and honored," though
state Republican officials did not concede, noting that the validity of 1,000 or
so uncounted ballots was being challenged by both sides.

"There are still more than a thousand ballots to be examined beginning next week
under the supervision of a judge," Scott Reif, a spokesman for the Senate
Republicans, said. "Despite an effort by the Democrats to shut this down
prematurely, this race is far from over."

Still, Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, who leads the Senate Democrats, was
confident enough that Mr. Brooks had won to call on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a
Democrat, "to step up and unify the members of his party."

With a victory, Democrats would have a numeric majority in the 63-seat Senate,
though Republicans, led by John J. Flanagan of Long Island, have been clinging
to power by dint of the continuing defection of Simcha Felder, a Democrat from
Brooklyn who sits and votes with the Republicans.

"Once again, a majority of our state senators in New York are Democrats, and for
some reason there is the mind-boggling question about who controls the Senate,"
Ms. Stewart-Cousins said. "At this critical juncture in our nation's history, it
is more important than ever that Democrats stick together to hold the line
against expected draconian efforts out of Washington to roll back and prevent
progressive achievements."

Ms. Stewart-Cousins's remarks were echoed by good government and liberal groups,
including the Working Families Party, which has had a fraught relationship with
the governor. Bill Lipton, the party's state director, said that Mr. Cuomo
should take the lead in turning the Senate Democratic and in offering "a clear
progressive alternative."

"If the governor wants to help lead the national opposition to Trump," Mr.
Lipton said, "he can start in his own backyard."

Mr. Cuomo's office said on Wednesday that it was monitoring the vote count in
the Eighth District.

The state Republicans cheered when Mr. Venditto jumped to an early lead of some
400 votes as the count began. In recent days, however, ballots have been counted
in more heavily Democratic areas, giving Mr. Brooks's an advantage.

The counting has also led to some unsavory accusations on both sides. Mr. Reif,
the Senate Republican spokesman, said on Wednesday that Democratic lawyers
monitoring the count at the Nassau County Board of Elections were discriminating
against older, infirm Republicans by challenging their ballots.

"Democrats are objecting to permanently disabled elderly Republican voters,
claiming their signatures don't match what is in the books," Mr. Reif said.
"This is a new low."

Democrats denied that claim, and leveled an accusation of their own: that
lawyers working on behalf of Mr. Venditto had been purposely challenging ballots
coming out of heavily black and Latino parts of the district, owing to those
groups' traditional support of Democratic candidates.

Mike Murphy, a Democratic spokesman, said the objections were "for almost no
reason, except that they are in minority areas." About two-thirds of the
objections came from Republicans, suggesting that Democrats were more confident
about their chances of maintaining a lead in the race.

"Our objections are legitimate and real," Mr. Reif said, "and are of much higher
quality than the Democrats."

Despite such disputes, the impact of a win for Mr. Brooks was unclear, in large
part because of Mr. Felder, who represents a district that is heavily Orthodox
Jewish and who confirmed last week that he would continue to conference with the
Republicans.

Also complicating the math is the seven-member Independent Democratic
Conference, led by Senator Jeffrey D. Klein of the Bronx and Westchester County,
who has been working in what he calls a "bipartisan coalition" with Republicans
for the past four years. That coalition has repeatedly said it would remain
separate from the rest of the elected Democratic senators led by Ms.
Stewart-Cousins, who were disappointed by their performance in November.

With Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential candidate, winning the state
easily, Ms. Stewart-Cousins and others in her party had hoped to win enough
seats to secure a solid Senate majority. (The State Assembly is dominated by
Democrats.) But New York Republicans, who saw Mr. Trump win handily in rural and
some suburban areas, actually gained a seat, winning in Buffalo.

The race in the Eighth District was an outlier: It had long been thought to be a
lock for Mr. Venditto, as the district has typically voted Republican. But in
October, Mr. Venditto's father, John, the town supervisor of Oyster Bay, was
arrested on federal corruption charges that also swept up a fellow Republican,
Edward P. Mangano, the Nassau County executive.

Jay Jacobs, the Nassau County Democratic chairman, said he was confident that
Mr. Brooks had enough votes to clinch the Eighth District seat, despite pending
challenges, including 727 from Republicans and 346 from Democrats.

"Right now our team is projecting a Brooks win by more than 300," Mr. Jacobs
said. "Then again, we projected helping Hillary out on her transition."

PHOTOS: State Senator Michael Venditto, far left, a Republican, has not conceded
to John Brooks, a Democrat, who held a 41-vote lead on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES; JAMES ESCHER/NEWSDAY)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             761 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 30, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Trump, a Free-Form Leader, Experiments and Invites Drama;
Political Memo

BYLINE: ALEXANDER BURNS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1370 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Trump's surprise announcements and impulsive gestures have
brought into sharp focus the compulsively theatrical style he will bring to the
Oval Office.


It began at dawn, with a Twitter post about flag-burning.

In a period of just over 24 hours, stretching from the early hours of Tuesday
into Wednesday morning, President-elect Donald J. Trump raced through perhaps
the most frenetic day of activity since the election. With a series of surprise
announcements and impulsive public gestures, he brought into sharp focus the
freewheeling and compulsively theatrical style he will bring to the Oval Office.

There was the incendiary pronouncement about the flag: After Fox News aired a
segment about protests that included flag-burning, Mr. Trump suggested stripping
people who burned the flag of their citizenship, even though the act is
constitutionally protected free speech.

There were hazy but headline-grabbing statements of policy: Mr. Trump announced
a tentative pact with the air-conditioning company Carrier to protect some jobs
at an Indiana factory, and pledged again to sever ties with his real estate
empire, without offering specifics.

There was a new and indiscreet round of tryouts for secretary of state,
featuring reviews from the president-elect in something like real time. Having
paraded David H. Petraeus, the former military commander and C.I.A. director,
past a throng of reporters for a meeting on Monday, Mr. Trump dined on Tuesday
with Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential nominee in 2012 and another
candidate for the job.

They huddled at a French restaurant on Central Park West in Manhattan, briefly
admitting the news media to take photographs of the smiling pair over scallops.

On display, if not on the menu, was government à la Trump.

While Mr. Trump's focus appeared to careen unpredictably from hour to hour, the
larger pattern he followed was a familiar one. As a candidate, Mr. Trump
operated largely on gut instinct, with publicity-seeking provocation as his
chief tactic. Trusting few people outside a circle of intimates, Mr. Trump
thrived in a daily cycle of controversy and cultivated an atmosphere of
often-public drama and division within his campaign.

Much as he did during the campaign, Mr. Trump has kept the political world
hanging on his every move, no matter how impetuous or trivial. He has aired his
partial or fleeting thoughts, toying with the idea of making Rudolph W. Giuliani
his secretary of state before appearing to lose interest. He has tolerated and
even welcomed unsubtle combat over his selections, allowing a senior adviser,
Kellyanne Conway, to roundly attack Mr. Romney on television while he remains a
top contender for the cabinet.

When Mr. Trump has incited controversy - with his flag-burning Twitter post, or
an earlier allegation of mass voter fraud - he has declined to elaborate or
justify his claims, and has left aides struggling to defend them, when they have
tried at all.

Mr. Trump's method, friends and allies say, matches the reputation he built
first in New York and then on reality television - less as a traditional
corporate executive, like Mr. Romney, than as an eager impresario who
experimented freely, welcomed conflict and flopped repeatedly.

Newt Gingrich, a former speaker of the House who has advised Mr. Trump, said Mr.
Trump's transition process "very much resembles the way he operated in 'The
Apprentice,'" the NBC show in which Mr. Trump functioned as an imposing
protagonist subjecting aspiring entrepreneurs to contests of business acumen.

Mr. Gingrich said Mr. Trump plainly relished personal contact with possible
appointees and favored a free-form leadership style. Mr. Trump did not emerge,
Mr. Gingrich said, from a "corporate, staffed background," but from a more
personality-driven, improvisational environment.

"In a lot of ways, what you're seeing is the continuation of techniques and
lessons he learned from doing what was, at one time, the No. 1 TV show," Mr.
Gingrich said.

For longtime critics of Mr. Trump, the spectacle of his transition has come as a
kind of nightmarish vindication, seeming to confirm their warnings about what it
would mean to have a reality television star in the nation's most powerful
office.

Mr. Trump's rivals in the Republican primary campaign often criticized him as a
showman and not a real executive. At a Washington dinner in 2011, President
Obama ridiculed the notion that Mr. Trump could run for president, recounting an
episode of "The Celebrity Apprentice" in which Mr. Trump fired the actor Gary
Busey and joking, "These are the kind of decisions that would keep me up at
night."

Jon Lovett, a former speechwriter for Mr. Obama who was an author of his speech
belittling Mr. Trump, described a sense of horror at seeing the joke turn into
reality.

"It is extremely chilling that Donald Trump views the spectacle of choosing
cabinet appointments in a way that is similar to deciding whether or not to fire
Lil Jon or Joan Rivers," Mr. Lovett said, referring to contestants on the show.

It would be difficult to overstate the extremity of Mr. Trump's departure from
recent presidential practice. His immediate predecessors prided themselves on
orderly, fastidious deliberations: George W. Bush as the first president with a
business degree, Mr. Obama as a candidate branded by aides as "no drama Obama."

Even Republicans concede that it is not clear how Mr. Trump's roller-coaster
approach to the transition will carry over to governing. Mr. Gingrich predicted
during the Republican primary contests that a Trump administration would
function as a kind of daily adventure. "If Trump does end up winning, you will
have no idea each morning what's going to happen," he said in a January
interview, "because he will have no idea."

But enacting sweeping changes or passing even modest legislation requires
intensive, sustained attention from presidents and their teams, of a kind Mr.
Trump has never dedicated to matters of policy.

Since the election, Mr. Trump has made only a few one-off announcements aimed at
soothing controversy or bolstering his popularity, like the Carrier deal or his
pledge to preserve elements of the Affordable Care Act. But he has not situated
any of his pronouncements within a larger, cohesive agenda, or answered even
basic questions about them, like whether the terms extended to Carrier should be
made available to other companies.

Mr. Trump has appeared comparatively uninterested in a set of lower-profile
appointments in which his close advisers, like Mike Pence, the vice
president-elect, and Reince Priebus, the incoming White House chief of staff,
have quietly installed Republican stalwarts.

On Tuesday, after Mr. Trump raged on Twitter about flag-burning, his transition
team announced the selectionof Elaine L. Chao, a former labor secretary, to lead
the Department of Transportation, and Representative Tom Price of Georgia, a
conservative hard-liner, as Mr. Trump's choice for health secretary.

On Twitter, Mr. Trump made only one perfunctory mention each of Ms. Chao and Mr.
Price, the man who would most likely be tasked with carrying out some of the
president-elect's most important campaign promises. By comparison, on Monday and
Tuesday, Mr. Trump posted on Twitter twice about the Carrier deal and five times
to criticize CNN for its coverage of him.

Michael O. Leavitt, a former governor of Utah who prepared Mr. Romney's
transition team before the 2012 election, said a presidential transition usually
"takes on the personality of the principal." Mr. Trump, he said, was taking an
exceptionally public approach and showing far less regard than usual for the
privacy of job candidates.

"This is Donald Trump doing it his way, and no one should expect any different,"
Mr. Leavitt said. "That doesn't mean it's right or wrong - it's just Trump."

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

PHOTOS: President-elect Donald J. Trump dined Tuesday in New York with his
adviser Reince Priebus, above left, and Mitt Romney, a candidate for secretary
of state. Left, a lectern at Trump Tower. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Ethics Office Praises Donald Trump for a Move He Hasn't Committed To
     ·    Why the Trump Team's Economic Promises Will Be Hard to Execute
     ·    Nancy Pelosi Beats Back House Democratic Leadership Challenge


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             762 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 30, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Trump's Economic Cabinet Picks Signal Embrace of Wall St. Elite

BYLINE: LANDON THOMAS Jr. and ALEXANDRA STEVENSON

SECTION: BUSINESS; dealbook

LENGTH: 1700 words



HIGHLIGHT: Steven Mnuchin, the financier who has been tapped to run Treasury,
joins other wealthy investors chosen by Mr. Trump, a sign of possible tax cuts
and deregulation ahead.


In a campaign commercial that ran just before the election, Donald J. Trump's
voice boomed over a series of Wall Street images. He described "a global power
structure that is responsible for the economic decisions that have robbed our
working class, stripped our country of its wealth, and put that money into the
pockets of a handful of large corporations."

The New York Stock Exchange, the hedge fund billionaire George Soros and the
chief executive of the investment bank Goldman Sachs flashed across the screen.

Now Mr. Trump has named a former Goldman executive and co-investor with Mr.
Soros to spearhead his economic policy.

With Wednesday's nomination of Steven Mnuchin, a Goldman trader turned hedge
fund manager and Hollywood financier, to be Treasury secretary, a new economic
leadership is taking shape in Washington.

Mr. Mnuchin will join Wilbur L. Ross Jr., a billionaire investor in distressed
assets, who has been chosen to run the Commerce Department, and Todd Ricketts,
owner of the Chicago Cubs, who has been picked to be deputy commerce secretary.
All are superwealthy and to be overseen by the first billionaire president in
United States history.

That two investors - Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Ross - will occupy two major economic
positions in the new administration is the most powerful signal yet that Mr.
Trump plans to emphasize policies friendly to Wall Street, like tax cuts and a
relaxation of regulation, in the early days of his administration.

While that approach has been cheered by investors (the stocks of Bank of
America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley have been on a tear since the
election), it stands in stark contrast to the populist campaign that Mr. Trump
ran and the support he received from working-class voters across the country.

Anthony Scaramucci, a hedge fund executive and member of the Trump transition
team, insisted on Wednesday that appointing wealthy investors did not contradict
the campaign's populist message.

"The working-class people of the United States, they need a break," Mr.
Scaramucci said. "And we need to switch them from going from the working class
into the working poor into what I call the aspirational working class, which my
dad was a member of."

Still, Democrats were quick to attack the latest nomination.

"Steve Mnuchin is just another Wall Street insider," Senator Bernie Sanders of
Vermont and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts said in a joint statement.
"That is not the type of change that Donald Trump promised to bring to
Washington - that is hypocrisy at its worst."

So far, none of the nominees who will be shaping economic policy have any
significant experience in government.

Mr. Mnuchin, 53, and Mr. Ross, 79, are both familiar with buying distressed
properties and selling for a profit. But they are political neophytes with scant
experience in managing large organizations. They will oversee two government
agencies that together employ about 130,000 people around the world.

In the case of Mr. Mnuchin at Treasury, his experience as a principal investor
who made large sums of money through high-risk, high-return wagers suggests that
he will look critically at the thicket of regulations that now constrain the
risk-taking activities of investment banks.

That could mean a reassessment of what has come to be known as the Volcker Rule,
part of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul that followed the 2008 financial
crisis. The rule forbids banks to make certain speculative investments with
their own capital.

"I would say the No. 1 problem with the Volcker Rule is it's too complicated and
people don't know how to interpret it," Mr. Mnuchin said in an interview with
CNBC on Wednesday. "So we're going to look at what to do with it as we are with
all of Dodd-Frank. The No. 1 priority is going to be to make sure that banks
lend."

In the interview, Mr. Mnuchin also said he would look to cutting corporate tax
rates as a way to increase economic growth. And he said the wealthy would not
see a big tax cut.

"Any reductions we have in upper-income taxes will be offset by less deductions
so that there will be no absolute tax cut for the upper class," Mr. Mnuchin said
in the interview. "There will be a big tax cut for the middle class, but any tax
cuts we have for the upper class will be offset by less deductions that pay for
it."

There is a Washington tradition of presidents calling on a Goldman Sachs
luminary to take the reins of the economy, including the Democrat Robert E.
Rubin in 1995 and Henry M. Paulson Jr., a Republican, in 2006.

Mr. Mnuchin's Goldman pedigree is as good as it gets, given that his father,
Robert, was a pioneer in stock trading who spent 35 years at the firm.

While the Goldman brand may have initially attracted Mr. Trump, for the broader
financial community it is Mr. Mnuchin's track record at hedge and private equity
funds, which is where the real money is made on Wall Street these days, that
makes him appealing.

"Mnuchin as Treasury secretary is somebody who can speak to bankers - Jamie
Dimon, Lloyd Blankfein, James Gorman and Brian Moynihan. He can speak their
language," said Gary Kaminsky, a former vice chairman at Morgan Stanley,
referring to the chief executives of JPMorgan Chase, Goldman, Morgan Stanley and
Bank of America. "He comes from a trading desk, and that's something that is
very strong," Mr. Kaminsky, who has attended fund-raisers for Mr. Trump, added.

While there is little doubt that Mr. Mnuchin can speak the language of Wall
Street, he has had little experience running large, complex bureaucracies. Mr.
Rubin and Mr. Paulson had ascended to the top at Goldman, and had many years of
experience managing people and organizations under their belt.

Mr. Mnuchin did assume a leading role in the restructuring and reinventing of
IndyMac, now known as OneWest, a California mortgage giant that collapsed in
2008. He and partners acquired the firm and later made billions.

After he moved from New York to the West Coast, Mr. Mnuchin was targeted by
protesters who claimed that the bank was too quick to foreclose on struggling
homeowners. Last year the bank was sold to the CIT Group, a small-business
lender run at the time by another Goldman Sachs alumnus, John A. Thain.

In a statement announcing his economic appointments, Mr. Trump highlighted the
deal. "He purchased IndyMac Bank for $1.6 billion and ran it very
professionally, selling it for $3.4 billion plus a return of capital," he said
of Mr. Mnuchin. "That's the kind of people I want in my administration
representing our country."

Mr. Mnuchin has faced other controversies. In 2010, he and his brother, Alan,
were sued over their mother's early investment with Bernard L. Madoff, an
investor who was convicted of running a Ponzi scheme. The lawsuit, filed by a
trustee for Madoff victims, alleged that $3.2 million of the money Mr. Mnuchin
withdrew from his mother's account shortly after she died belonged to other
victims. The lawsuit was dropped last year because of a time limit.

Hollywood has been another reinvention for Mr. Mnuchin.

In 2006, he and a partner, Chip Seelig, struck a deal through their company Dune
Entertainment to invest $325 million in 28 movies produced by 20th Century Fox.
It was a successful partnership; Fox delivered hits (made in part with Dune's
money) like "Avatar," which took in $2.8 billion worldwide in 2009.

After breaking with Mr. Seelig in 2012, Mr. Mnuchin teamed up with a company
called RatPac, owned by the rowdy filmmaker Brett Ratner and the Australian
billionaire James Packer. Mr. Ratner was then notorious in Hollywood; he
resigned as a producer of the Academy Awards in 2011 after using an anti-gay
slur at a public event and making frank remarks about his sex life on Howard
Stern's radio show. (He apologized.) But together the three men formed a vehicle
to invest $450 million in an extensive array of Warner Bros. movies.

Some have been major hits, like "Gravity," which took in $723.2 million. But
there have also been money losers, including "Pan" and "In the Heart of the
Sea."

Still, Mr. Mnuchin has clearly enjoyed a Hollywood lifestyle, whether attending
celebrity-filled parties at the Hôtel du Cap-Eden-Roc during the Cannes Film
Festival or going in with a movie industry friend to buy a Dassault Falcon 50
jet (since sold). He can currently be seen in a cameo - playing a Merrill Lynch
executive - in Warren Beatty's new movie "Rules Don't Apply."

Beyond the entertainment industry, there other similarities between Mr. Trump
and Mr. Mnuchin. They are both twice divorced, and their third partners are
decidedly younger. (Mr. Mnuchin's fiancée is Louise Linton, a 34-year-old
actress from Scotland.) They also both have a taste for landmark Manhattan real
estate: Trump Tower for the president-elect and 740 Park Avenue for Mr. Mnuchin.

But there are differences, too. Despite his Hollywood appetites, Mr. Mnuchin is
described by people who know him as slightly awkward and not one to command a
room. Friends of the two men describe them more as social and professional
acquaintances than close friends.

The names of flashier prospects had been floated as possible candidates for
Treasury, according to a fund manager close to the president-elect's economic
brain trust. Among them: Henry Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company,
Jonathan Gray of Blackstone, Jamie Dimon, Mitt Romney, and Thomas J. Barrack Jr.
of Colony Capital, a Los Angeles-based real estate investor who has been close
to Mr. Trump for decades.

Brooks Barnes and Neil Irwin contributed reporting.

PHOTOS: Wilbur Ross was tapped for the Commerce Department. (A1); Steven
Mnuchin, Donald J. Trump's pick for Treasury secretary, has a Goldman Sachs
pedigree and is a financier with a taste for high-risk, high-return wagers.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); The president-elect with
Todd Ricketts, another investor, who will be a deputy at Commerce. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19)

Related Articles


     ·    Gary Cohn, a Potential Successor at Goldman, Could End Up With Trump
     ·    The Guys From 'Government Sachs'
     ·    Trump Taps Hollywood's Mnuchin for Treasury and Dines With Romney
     ·    Steven Mnuchin, Expected Treasury Pick, Is an Outsider to Public
          Policy


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             763 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                     November 30, 2016 Wednesday 00:00 EST

Steven Mnuchin Is More Pragmatist Than Ideologue;
Breakingviews

BYLINE: GINA CHON

SECTION: BUSINESS; dealbook

LENGTH: 403 words



HIGHLIGHT: Such an approach could help Mr. Mnuchin balance competing views while
pushing for some of President-elect Donald J. Trump's major first-year goals.


President-elect Donald J. Trump has made an illogically logical choice for his
Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin.

Mr. Mnuchin's Wall Street past will rankle Democrats. But unlike many people
whom Mr. Trump has put on his team, he is neither an ideologue nor a populist.
He is also well qualified for the job, bipartisan and relatively reserved.

Mr. Mnuchin's career as a financier will not make for a smooth ride though
confirmation hearings. He spent 17 years at Goldman Sachs, working in mortgage
securities before becoming chief information officer. He left in 2002 to set up
his own hedge fund, Dune Capital, which helped finance hit movies like "Avatar."
And he and fellow investors made a 150 percent profit in five years turning
around the defunct mortgage lender IndyMac Bank, which they bought in 2009 and
renamed OneWest Bank.

Lobbying groups are already coming out against his nomination, in part because
of accusations that OneWest Bank's foreclosure policies were too aggressive.
People "should be terrified by the prospect of a Treasury Secretary Mnuchin,"
the Take on Wall Street campaign said on Tuesday.

Republicans, though, have the majority needed to confirm him. He is not a
Republican through and through. He has given money multiple times to Senator
Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, who will be the next Senate leader for the
Democrats. He donated to President Obama's first presidential campaign and
raised money this year for Kamala Harris, a Democrat who won a California Senate
seat in this month's election.

He even recently floated the idea of creating an infrastructure bank, a plan
pitched earlier by Hillary Clinton. That suggests a more pragmatic approach to
the job than, say the attorney general nominee, Jeff Sessions, or the health and
human services appointee, Tom Price.

Such an approach could help him balance competing views while pushing for some
of Mr. Trump's major first-year goals, like a tax code overhaul, infrastructure
spending and a government budget that could substantially increase the national
debt.

In a rare quality for Washington insiders, Mr. Mnuchin also does not seek the
limelight, which could appeal to lawmakers who are eager to take credit for
policy victories. It all bodes well for America's fiscal policy.

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Taps Hollywood's Mnuchin for Treasury and Dines With Romney
     ·    Steven Mnuchin, Expected Treasury Pick, Is an Outsider to Public
          Policy


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             764 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Trump and Clinton Aides Clash During Election Forum

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 925 words



HIGHLIGHT: "I would rather lose than win the way you guys did," Hillary
Clinton's director of communications told Donald J. Trump's campaign manager
during a raucous debate at Harvard.


CAMBRIDGE, Mass. - Top strategists from the campaigns of Donald J. Trump and
Hillary Clinton, interrupting each other and sometimes raising their voices,
engaged in an angry debate on Thursday about how Mr. Trump pulled off his upset
victory.

Emotions were still raw at the campaign post-mortem, held at Harvard's Institute
of Politics, particularly over the influence of Stephen K. Bannon, who left
Breitbart News - which he has called a "platform" for the white nationalist
alt-right - to help run Mr. Trump's campaign.

Mr. Bannon will serve as a senior aide to Mr. Trump. David Bossie, Mr. Trump's
deputy campaign manager, called Mr. Bannon a "brilliant strategist."

That provoked the Clinton campaign's director of communications, Jennifer
Palmieri, to respond, "If providing a platform for white supremacists makes me a
brilliant tactician, I am more proud to have lost."

Mr. Bannon was scheduled to participate in the event but did not attend. That
did not stop several hundred demonstrators from protesting him Wednesday evening
outside Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government, where the post-mortem
was held as part of a two-day conference.

With campaign managers and pollsters talking over one another and a large crowd
of campaign veterans from the news media looking on, Ms. Palmieri said her
proudest moment from the campaign was a speech Mrs. Clinton gave in Nevada
condemning the alt-right.

"I would rather lose than win the way you guys did," Ms. Palmieri said.

Kellyanne Conway, who was Mr. Trump's third and final campaign manager, asked,
"How exactly did we win?"

She answered her own question: by connecting with voters in places "where we
were either ignored or mocked roundly by most of the people in this room."

"Do you think I ran a campaign where white supremacists had a platform?" Ms.
Conway asked Ms. Palmieri. "You're going to look me in the face and tell me
that?"

Ms. Conway went on, pointing out Mrs. Clinton's failings. "Do you think you
could have just had a decent message for the white working-class voters?" she
asked the Clinton advisers. "How about it's Hillary Clinton, she doesn't connect
with people? How about they had nothing in common with her? How about you had no
economic message?"

Joel Benenson, Mrs. Clinton's pollster, accused the Trump campaign of using "dog
whistles" about immigrants and minorities to appeal to white voters in
battleground states. Robby Mook, Mrs. Clinton's campaign manager, disputed the
notion that Mr. Trump won primarily by appealing on economic issues, citing exit
polls in Michigan and Wisconsin showing Mrs. Clinton carried more voters who
ranked the economy as their top issue.

The highly charged exchange was followed by a more restrained conversation
between Ms. Conway and Mr. Mook, moderated by the CNN host Jake Tapper. CNN will
broadcast the discussion on Sunday.

But it was the more raucous session earlier in the day where the passions of the
campaign still seemed at a barely contained boil.

The participants, half a dozen from each campaign who faced each other while
seated at two tables, argued about whether Mr. Trump had won a mandate. "You won
the Electoral College; don't pretend you have a mandate," Mr. Benenson said.
"Two and a half million more Americans thought she was a better candidate."

"Hey guys," Ms. Conway replied. "We won. Why is there no mandate?"

Mrs. Clinton's advisers argued repeatedly that two public letters by James B.
Comey, the F.B.I. director, about Mrs. Clinton's emails less than two
weeksbefore Election Day pushed enough undecided voters away from her to swing
the election. They also said that voters were seeking fundamental change in
Washington, a strong headwind Mrs. Clinton could never overcome.

In a rare point of agreement, both campaigns faulted the news media. They said
leading newspapers and TV networks were so convinced Mr. Trump was unelectable
that they never took him seriously. That led to "hyper-fixation" on Mrs.
Clinton's use of a private email server, Mr. Mook said.

"Mr. Trump had a unique ability to speak directly to the American people and go
past the media, whether in 140 characters or making a statement somewhere," Mr.
Bossie said.

The Trump strategists repeatedly said the Clinton campaign had tried to
disqualify Mr. Trump based on his temperament and statements, while
misunderstanding the appeal of his promise to keep Americans safe from terrorism
at home and abroad.

"They wanted to frame the race as, 'Do you trust him to have his finger on the
button?'" said Tony Fabrizio, Mr. Trump's pollster.

"At the end of the day, what a lot of voters didn't buy was that it was ever
going to be a time where you have to worry about his finger on the button," he
said. "This wasn't Barry Goldwater."

Asked by Mr. Tapper whether Mr. Trump's recent postingof misinformation on
Twitter about millions of undocumented immigrants voting was presidential, Ms.
Conway defended the message.

"He's the president-elect, so that's presidential behavior," she said.

At one point, Ms. Conway threw up her hands in frustration at the close scrutiny
of the campaign. "Everybody wants to go back in a time machine and do things
differently so this result that nobody saw coming won't come somehow," she said.

PHOTO: Kellyanne Conway, the Trump campaign manager, and Robby Mook, the Clinton
campaign manager, at Harvard on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES
KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

Related Articles


     ·    CNN's Coverage of Trump Was Biased, Presidential Candidates' Aides Say
     ·    Trump Kicks Off 'Thank You' Tour, Reveling in Crowd and Campaign
          Themes


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             765 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

CNN's Coverage of Trump Was Biased, Presidential Candidates' Aides Say

BYLINE: MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1163 words



HIGHLIGHT: At a conference, CNN's president, Jeffrey A. Zucker, was heckled
about going easy on Mr. Trump. Mr. Zucker maintained that the news station was
fair.


CAMBRIDGE, Mass. - Jeffrey A. Zucker, CNN's president, is accustomed to
complaints about his network going easy on Donald J. Trump: providing extensive
coverage of his rallies, letting him phone in for interviews and hiring his
former campaign manager as an analyst.

Rarely, however, does Mr. Zucker - or any television news executive, for that
matter - face the kind of A-list revolt that brewed here Wednesday evening.

In extraordinary exchanges, aides to Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz and Jeb Bush openly
accused Mr. Zucker of enabling Mr. Trump and undermining their candidates in the
Republican primary, heckling from their seats as Mr. Zucker spoke on a panel in
a hotel ballroom.

"You showed hours upon hours of unfiltered, unscrutinized coverage of Trump!"
shouted Todd Harris, a top adviser for Mr. Rubio. A Washington Post reporter,
Karen Tumulty, prompted applause when she pressed Mr. Zucker on why he allowed
Trump surrogates to spread falsehoods on his network.

It was a visceral airing of grievances before an audience of the country's
leading political operatives and journalists, gathered for what is typically a
staid postelection conference at Harvard. And it captured CNN's lightning-rod
position in the debate over the role of the media in Mr. Trump's rise and, now,
his looming presidency.

Since Election Day, Mr. Trump has singled out CNN for criticism, posting on
Twitter that the network had "total (100%) support of Hillary Clinton" and
chastising Mr. Zucker during a private meeting with television executives at
Trump Tower. Yet media commentators have accused CNN of giving preferential
treatment to Mr. Trump to lift ratings. The network is on track this year to
collect $1 billion in profit.

"CNN helped make him by carrying every speech he made in the primary season,"
Larry King, the former CNN anchor and a friend of Mr. Trump, said in an
interview. "It was almost like the other guys didn't exist."

Mr. Zucker, for his part, was steadfast on Wednesday that his network covered
Mr. Trump and the election fairly, telling attendees that the Manhattan
businessman routinely made news "and we are in the business of covering news."
He pointed to tough questioning of Mr. Trump by Anderson Cooper and Jake Tapper,
and said that the bipartisan contentiousness over CNN's coverage gave him
comfort, not anxiety.

"Half the people want to blame us for Trump, and half the people want to say
that we're terrible to Trump," Mr. Zucker said. "That's how I always think we're
doing the right thing."

For all the complaints from vanquished rivals, Mr. Trump has been no fan of CNN
in recent weeks, especially after the network - along with other news
organizations - discredited the president-elect's false claim that millions of
illegal ballots cost him the popular vote.

Mr. Trump thinks that CNN's coverage of him turned negative at the start of the
general election, according to a person with direct knowledge of his thinking.
He also thinks that he helped advance the career of Mr. Zucker, whom he has
known for years since they worked together at NBC on "The Apprentice."

In 2012, Mr. Trump recommended Mr. Zucker as the next president of CNN during a
dinner at the Plaza Hotel with Phil Kent, then the chief executive of Turner,
CNN's parent company, according to three people with knowledge of the hiring
process, who were granted anonymity to share private conversations.

Mr. Trump believes he was instrumental in getting Mr. Zucker that job, the
people said, although Mr. Kent had already been discussing the position with Mr.
Zucker and his conversation with Mr. Trump lasted only a few minutes.

Clad on Wednesday in a silky pinstripe suit, Mr. Zucker seemed aware that he
might be in for an onslaught. The first question - had Mr. Trump been good for
CNN? - set off snickers in the audience, and Mr. Zucker's co-panelist, Kathleen
Carroll of The Associated Press, smiled. "Ba dum bum," she said.

Mr. Zucker conceded, as he has in the past, that he broadcast too many unedited
Trump rallies in the early months of the campaign. But he rejected claims of
bias, saying that rival candidates received ample invitations to appear and
rarely accepted.

"People should think about the decisions they made not to come on the cable news
networks," Mr. Zucker said, even as some campaign aides in the audience argued
that Mr. Trump was featured as a ratings draw, and treated less aggressively.
When Sasha Issenberg, the moderator, suggested that the panel move from CNN "to
a less contentious subject, fake news," Jeff Roe, Mr. Cruz's campaign manager,
piped up.

"You just covered that!" he said.

In books, Mr. Trump has referred to Mr. Zucker as "a total dynamo," "the best in
the business" and "brilliant." Those compliments have faded. In September, Mr.
Trump posted on Twitter that Mr. Zucker "failed @NBC and he is now failing
@CNN."

"My relationship with him didn't seem to help that much," Mr. Zucker, who has
spoken privately with Mr. Trump since the election, said on Wednesday. A
spokeswoman for Mr. Trump did not respond to a request for comment.

Whether Mr. Trump likes it or not, CNN, like other cable news networks, stands
to gain financially from a Trump administration. John Martin, chief executive of
CNN's parent company, Turner, said at a Code Media conference on Wednesday that
CNN "is completing its Hall of Fame year," and he expects the network's ratings
to stay high.

"With the Trump administration," Mr. Martin said, "there will be a general
fascination that wouldn't be the same as under a Clinton administration."

How that plays out journalistically is another question. On Wednesday, Mr.
Zucker defended his hiring of Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump's ex-campaign
manager, who was constrained as an analyst by a nondisclosure agreement with the
Trump campaign. "It was important to have people who could give us a peek into
what people supporting Trump were thinking," Mr. Zucker said.

Given that few predicted Mr. Trump's victory, Mr. Zucker said, "that insight
turns out to have been exactly the right thing to have had, and I'm proud that
we did it."

That prompted Ms. Tumulty of The Post to ask Mr. Zucker why he allowed on so
many "nut job surrogates" to appear, noting that some Trump supporters told
lies, which CNN anchors had to correct. "At what point do you say you cannot
come on our air anymore because you have told too many lies?" Ms. Tumulty asked.

Mr. Zucker said it was up to viewers to decide whether a supporter offered a
compelling case for their candidate. And he circled back to the notion that
televising Mr. Trump's words was one thing; voters choosing to support him was
another.

"At the end of the day," he said, "it is up to the viewer to say whether that
augurs well for their candidate or not."

PHOTO: Jeffrey A. Zucker, left, arriving at Trump Tower in Manhattan for a
meeting with President-elect Donald J. Trump on Nov. 21. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN
MCDERMID/REUTERS)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump and Clinton Aides Clash During Election Forum


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             766 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump, François Hollande, Tiger Woods: Your Thursday Evening Briefing

BYLINE: KAREN WORKMAN and SANDRA STEVENSON

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 911 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know at the end of the day.


(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the sign-up.)

Good evening. Here's the latest.

1. President-elect Donald J. Trump began a victory lap, heading to Indiana to
celebrate both his win and his seeming success at preventing some manufacturing
jobs in the state from moving to Mexico.

The deal with Carrier, best known for its air-conditioners, saves 1,000 jobs
through a $7 million incentive package - just the kind of corporate giveaway he
knocked on the campaign trail.

Afterward, he went to a rally in Ohio, where he announced theselection of James
Mattis, an ex-general with a tough stance on Iran, to be his defense secretary.

_____

2. Some of Mr. Trump's supporters say he is risking charges of hypocrisy for
filling his cabinet with people of wealth and power - the very kinds of people
he vowed to drive out of Washington.

The consideration of Mitt Romney, above, for secretary of state has been the
most infuriating to conservative leaders who wanted to see Mr. Trump shake up
the party establishment.

Some have mounted a vigorous lobbying campaign to try to usher David H.
Petraeus, the former C.I.A. director, into the job.

_____

3. The first recount of the 2016 presidential election is underway in Wisconsin,
above. Few people expect the effort, initiated by Jill Stein, to reverse the
election's outcome.

Another recount will begin Friday in the neighboring battleground state of
Michigan.

_____

4. A measure to extend sanctions against Iran for a decade was passed by the
Senate and will now go to President Obama, who has not said whether he intends
to sign or to veto the legislation.

The 99-to-0 vote showed the desire of lawmakers to maintain a tough posture
toward Iran amid uncertainty over the future of the nuclear agreement with the
country, which Mr. Trump railed against during his campaign.

Iranian officials have threatened to respond if the United States goes through
with the extension. Above, Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader.

_____

5. The United Nations apologized for its role in the 2010 cholera outbreak in
Haiti that led to the deaths of about 10,000 people.

Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, in his address to the General Assembly,
implicitly acknowledged that the disease was not present in the country until
the arrival of U.N. peacekeepers from Nepal, where cholera is common.

_____

6. President François Hollande stunned France, announcing he would not run for a
second term in next year's election.

Mr. Hollande, a Socialist, has had some of the worst approval ratings in
France's modern history. He has struggled to cut unemployment and has had to
grapple with agonizing terrorist attacks.

_____

7. The process to demobilize FARC rebels in Colombia can begin now that a
revised peace accord ending the country's 52-year civil war has been ratified.

This time the government bypassed voters, who had turned down the accord by a
narrow margin on Oct. 2.

In coming weeks, the rebels will leave their camps and relocate to a set number
of sites, where they'll disarm under the watch of United Nations inspectors.

_____

8. Psilocybin, an ingredient found in hallucinogenic mushrooms, can
significantly reduce anxiety and depression in cancer patients, according to a
study published today. The drug has been illegal in the United States for more
than 40 years.

"I have a greater sense of peace of what might come," one cancer survivor said.
"I'm very grateful, beyond words, for this trial."

_____

9. Jim Delligatti, above, the McDonald's franchise owner who created the Big
Mac, died on Monday. He was 98.

In the mid-1960s, Mr. Delligatti's initial proposal to add a double-patty
hamburger to the menu was met with resistance.

Today, the company sells about 550 million Big Macs in the United States every
year. "All I got was a plaque," Mr. Delligatti said in 2007.

_____

10. Tiger Woods made his long-awaited comeback to golf at the Hero World
Challenge, his first competitive roundin more than a year - 466 days, to be
exact.

He had been sidelined by back injuries, watching his ranking plummet to 898th
while he was away. Woods, now 40, showed flashes of his old self on the course
Thursday, but finished over par.

_____

11. One of our best-read stories is about a fortune that went missing when a
wealthy businessman set out to divorce his wife.

The quest to find it would reveal the depths of an offshore financial system
used by the richest people in the world for one main purpose: to make it appear
that they own as little as possible.

"Dictators use it to loot their own countries. Drug lords use it to launder
money," our reporter wrote. The system "is a darkness that shields the
tax-averse businessman and the criminal alike."

_____

12. Finally, we have reached the last month of 2016. December will usher in
holiday decorations, party invitations, airport congestion and, most likely, an
overwhelming number of year-end lists.

Here's one to kick things off: the 10 best books of 2016, selected by editors of
The New York Times Book Review. Enjoy.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of
the briefing should help.

Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.

And don't miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and
Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.

Want to look back? Here's last night's briefing.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at
briefing@nytimes.com.

Related Articles


     ·    OPEC, Donald Trump, Nancy Pelosi: Your Wednesday Evening Briefing


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             767 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Anthony Weiner Fined $65,000 for Campaign Finance Violations

BYLINE: J. DAVID GOODMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 683 words



HIGHLIGHT: The penalty was levied by New York City's Campaign Finance Board,
which said the former congressman violated the rules during his failed mayoral
bid in 2013.


The news keeps getting worse for Anthony D. Weiner.

Mr. Weiner, the disgraced former congressman whose lewd text message exchanges
with a teenager spurred new federal scrutiny of Hillary Clinton's emails in the
final days of the presidential campaign, was fined $65,000 on Thursday by New
York City's Campaign Finance Board for violations during his failed bid for
mayor in 2013.

Mr. Weiner's campaign, which raised and spent millions stretching back to the
2009 race when he first made a run for mayor, is also required to return its
remaining balance of $195,000, which the board said was unspent public matching
funds.

Among the violations committed by Mr. Weiner's campaign, according to the board:
using campaign funds to pay for two cellphones, including the personal phone
used by Mr. Weiner from May to September 2013, the height of his Democratic
primary campaign.

It was during that period that new revelations of sexually explicit text
messages and photographs, sent to women after he had left Congress, came to
light and derailed Mr. Weiner's bid for mayor, which had been gaining momentum -
partially based on the notion that he had moved beyond his lewd messaging.

It was not clear if Mr. Weiner, a Democrat, sent any such messages from either
of the phones that were paid for with campaign funds.

The board, which oversees the city's strict campaign finance system and the
payment of public matching funds, conducts routine audits of all candidates
after elections. Mr. Weiner received more than $1.6 million in public funding
for his campaign, which is given to candidates in proportion to the funds they
raise themselves. Only the first $175 from a contributor is matched, at a
six-to-one ratio.

The board also cited a range of infractions by Mr. Weiner's campaign, including
late filings, contributions over the city's campaign finance limits, and
spending that could not be shown to be related to the campaign. Each violation
carried an individual fine ranging from $200 to $27,724, the latter for
postelection spending that the board said had not been adequately documented.

Mr. Weiner's campaign can appeal the fines - which the former congressman must
pay out of his own pocket, or raise money to do so - in court, though it has not
yet moved to do so. A spokeswoman for the campaign declined to comment.

The fine is the latest blow to Mr. Weiner, whose marriage to Huma Abedin, a top
aide to Mrs. Clinton, fell apart after new suggestive messages surfaced in
August, including one with an image of Mr. Weiner's crotch as he lay next to the
couple's 4-year-old son. He faced harsh criticism from Democrats in October
after revelations that a federal criminal investigation into his texting
extended to a computer used by Ms. Abedin that contained emails sent to or from
Mrs. Clinton's private email server.

The director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, James B. Comey, alerted
Congress to the inquiry in the waning days of the presidential campaign before
following up two days before the election to say the information on the computer
warranted no new action against Mrs. Clinton.

The city's Campaign Finance Board has still not finished its audits of several
other major 2013 mayoral candidates, including William C. Thompson Jr.,
Christine C. Quinn and Mayor Bill de Blasio.

But it levied $34,000 in fines in September against another candidate, George T.
McDonald, an advocate for the homeless who ran as a Republican, mostly for
accepting over-the-limit contributions. Mr. McDonald railed at the board during
its meeting that month, arguing that the system ensured that only the rich or
career politicians run for public office.

"You look at America, nobody votes!" Mr. McDonald said. "I didn't come here to
beg for your mercy, O.K. I came here to give you the facts. I gave you the
facts. You're going to fine us anyway. So what the hell - what are we doing
here?"

A minute later, he walked out of the meeting.

PHOTO: Anthony Weiner's campaign must also return $195,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD
HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    Key Moments in the Downfall of Anthony Weiner


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             768 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

'We're Going to Get This Done': Wisconsin Vote Recount Is Underway

BYLINE: JULIE BOSMAN

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1155 words



HIGHLIGHT: Wisconsin is recounting the presidential vote at the behest and
expense of Jill Stein, of the Green Party, with Michigan and Pennsylvania
recounts up in the air.


ELKHORN, Wis. - The basement room was cleared of pens with blue or black ink,
items that could mar paper ballots. Anyone wearing a coat was told to leave it
in the hallway, in case something nefarious was hidden underneath. Water
bottles, purses and keys were placed on the floor, leaving the large plastic
tables smooth and uncluttered.

And at 9 a.m., with the brisk rap of a county clerk's wooden gavel, the first
recount of the 2016 presidential election was underway in Wisconsin, with
another recount pending in the neighboring battleground state of Michigan.

For the next 12 days, election officials across all 72 counties in Wisconsin
will work days, nights and weekends to recount nearly three million ballots, an
effort initiated and financed by Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential
candidate, who has suggested that voting machines in the state could have been
hacked.

Very few people expect that the recount will reverse the outcome of the
election. President-elect Donald J. Trump triumphed here over Hillary Clinton by
22,177 votes, and in Michigan by 10,704 votes, a margin that a lawyer for Mrs.
Clinton, Marc Elias, said had never been overcome in a recount. Legal challenges
to the vote in Pennsylvania, where Mr. Trump leads by 70,638 votes, are also
underway.

As Wisconsin was beginning to take another look at its votes, the efforts in
Michigan and Pennsylvania remained in flux.

The Michigan secretary of state's office announced that Mr. Trump on Thursday
objected to the recount, halting plans to begin the process on Friday. Lawyers
for Mr. Trump argued that Ms. Stein did not qualify to demand a recount and that
it would not be finished in time for the Electoral College, which meets on Dec.
19. The board plans to hear the objection on Friday, and if it rejects it, the
recount would probably commence on Tuesday.

In Pennsylvania, where Ms. Stein's efforts have more hurdles, election officials
in Philadelphia said on Thursday that, pending litigation, they would begin
recounting votes in 75 precincts on Friday, a small portion of the nearly 1,700
in the city. The elections commission, though, denied a request for a full
forensic audit of the city's voting machines.

Here in Elkhorn, a city of about 10,000 people in Walworth County in southern
Wisconsin, the recount began in a government building downtown, where workers
approached their task with both urgency and trepidation. They are expecting to
count ballots for close to 12 hours a day until the task is complete - their
deadline is Dec. 12. The Electoral College will vote on Dec. 19.

"We're going to be working long hours, but we're going to get this done," said
Kimberly S. Bushey, the clerk for Walworth County. When a co-worker suggested
that the group would be taking a lunch break at some point, she answered with a
terse "Maybe."

Tabulators, mostly retirees, are being paid $25 for each half day they work, and
county officials say they would bring in workers as needed to count the 51,000
ballots in time.

In Wisconsin, recounts are not terribly unusual. Another vast statewide recount
happened only four years ago, for a seat on the state's Supreme Court. The
recount took more than a month.

Michael Cotter, a staff member in the county clerk's office, stood on the
sidelines on Thursday morning and recalled at least three other recounts that he
had taken part in, dating from a countywide do-over for a judicial seat in the
spring of 2000.

"We had punch ballots back then, so I knew all about pregnant chads and hanging
chads before Bush and Gore," he said. "They kept falling out of the ballots and
they were all over the floor, like confetti."

Election officials here seemed determined to keep the process orderly. Observers
were told to stay several feet away from the tabulators, on one side of the room
marked off by green tape. Donna Emelity, a tabulator, said she was volunteering
out of a sense of civic duty. "Wisconsin is run very honest," she said. "I think
it will prove to people that it's an honest election and it'll help people have
more confidence."

Representatives of the campaigns were allowed to be closer to the process,
peering over the shoulders of election officials as they tested machines and
used pliers to snip open white plastic sacks of ballots.

Mary Gilding, a volunteer for the Stein campaign who was there to oversee the
recount, said that she did not "have a dog in this fight," but merely wanted to
ensure that the election results were accurate.

"I hope we find that there won't be anything that went wrong in our little
county," Ms. Gilding said. "But with all that's going on with hacking, we need
to find out for sure."

Ms. Stein has argued that counting by hand is more accurate than machine
recounting, but lost a hearing on Tuesday that could have mandated a statewide
hand count. That left the decision up to individual county clerks, who opted
mostly for a hand count. A few said they were bowing to demands from people who
found counting by machines to be suspicious; Walworth County officials said they
would use a combination of counting by hand and feeding ballots into an optical
scanner.

In a statement, Ms. Stein hailed the start of the recount as a "critical first
step towards restoring faith in our voting system" while urging election
administrators to review ballots by hand, and "not simply push a button that
would repeat whatever problems may have occurred in the original tally."

State Republicans have dismissed the recount as a stunt. Mr. Trump posted an
angry response on Twitter about it this week.

Governor Walker, a Republican, has criticized the recount. "The motivations
behind the recount are questionable and ultimately costly," Tom Evenson, a
spokesman, said in an email. "Governor Walker has confidence in Wisconsin's
electoral process and believes it is both fair and protected."

Andrea Kaminski, executive director of the League of Women Voters in Wisconsin,
said she did not expect the recount to change the election results in a
significant way.

But she said the recount was consistent with a Wisconsin trait: "the fact that
we have so darn many elections."

"That reflects not so much our high level of civic participation, but the
polarization that we're under right now," she said. "Right now, Wisconsin is
just in a lock of polarized politics where neither side is willing to
compromise."

Steve Eder contributed reporting from New York

PHOTOS: The recounting of Wisconsin presidential votes began on Thursday at a
government building in Elkhorn, in Walworth County in the southern part of the
state. It is expected to take 12 days. (A14); Serial numbers were checked on
sealed ballots in Elkhorn on Thursday during the start of the recount of the
Wisconsin presidential vote. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAUREN JUSTICE FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A20)

Related Articles


     ·    Recount Bids in 3 States Seem the Longest of Long Shots
     ·    Vote Recount Push Advances, but Reversing Trump's Win Is Unlikely


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             769 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

A Subdued Vladimir Putin Calls for 'Mutually Beneficial' Ties With U.S.

BYLINE: ANDREW HIGGINS

SECTION: WORLD; europe

LENGTH: 1291 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Russian leader lamented rising global "fractures," even in
affluent countries, but made no mention of the Kremlin's efforts to stir up
disorder.


MOSCOW - After the outpouring of euphoria among Russia's political elite over
the victory of Donald J. Trump, President Vladimir V. Putin on Thursday gave a
more measured response in his annual address to the nation, calling for
cooperation but expressing misgivings over some of Mr. Trump's statements about
nuclear weapons.

The Russian leader appeared remarkably subdued at what was widely seen as a
moment of triumph for him, with his popularity rising on a cresting wave of
anti-establishment and often pro-Russian populism in Europe and America.

Speaking to an audience of political and economic barons in the ornate St.
George's Hall of the Great Kremlin Palace, Mr. Putin praised his compatriots for
rallying around "patriotic values" and, counterintuitively, for eschewing the
lure of populism.

He lamented that around the world, "even in the most seemingly affluent
countries and stable regions, more and more fractures and conflicts on
political, ethnic, religious and social grounds are rising."

Those remarks had to surprise Western officials who have frequently accused the
Kremlin of stirring up and supporting precisely those anti-establishment forces
so as to sow disorder and weaken liberal democracies. Germany's foreign
intelligence chief, Bruno Kahl, warned in an interview published on Tuesday that
Russia, seeking to create "political uncertainty," was bombarding his country
with disinformation before elections next year.

Mr. Putin did not mention Mr. Trump by name, saying only that Russia wanted to
work with the incoming administration "to normalize and begin to develop
bilateral relations on an equal and mutually beneficial basis."

His comments largely reprised the message he gave Mr. Trump in a telephone call
soon after the Nov. 8 election, when both men agreed that something needed to be
done to improve "the absolutely unsatisfactory state of bilateral relations."

In a departure from his speeches in recent years, Mr. Putin avoided sarcastic or
downright angry comments about the United States. But he also made clear that
Russia demanded to be treated as a global power, not the "regional power" that
Mr. Obama described it as in 2014, infuriating Moscow.

"We have a joint responsibility for the provision of international security and
stability, for the strengthening of anti-proliferation regimes," Mr. Putin said,
referring to efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.

During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump suggested that more countries should
acquire nuclear weapons so that they can defend themselves without Washington's
help. He also threatened to dismantle the international agreement that limits
Iran's nuclear program.

In another apparent reference to Mr. Trump's campaign statements on nuclear
weapons policy, which included assertions that the American arsenal had "fallen
way behind" Russia's and needed to catch up, Mr. Putin warned against any
attempt by Washington to disrupt what he called the balance of nuclear firepower
between the two countries.

"I would like to emphasize that attempts to break strategic parity are extremely
dangerous and can lead to a global catastrophe," Mr. Putin said. "This must not
be forgotten for a single second."

Mr. Putin's mixing of pointed reminders of Russia's status as a nuclear power
with a measured expression of hope for an end to the current deep chill in
relations with Washington contrasted sharply with the unalloyed glee expressed
by many Russian politicians and commentators after Mr. Trump's election victory.
In the run-up to the election, state-controlled news outlets cast Hillary
Clinton as a Russophobic hawk and warmonger while Mr. Trump was presented as the
candidate who would bring a new and sunny dawn to relations between Washington
and Moscow.

Syria and the importance of fighting Islamic extremism are areas in which Mr.
Putin's interests and Mr. Trump's statements seem to coincide. Mr. Putin, who
has repeatedly accused the Obama administration of mollycoddling extremists,
said the United States needed to focus on "a real rather than dreamt-up threat"
and join Russia in fighting international terrorism.

The "dreamt-up" threat seemed to refer to fear in Washington and many European
capitals that Russia has become a menace to security since it seized Crimea from
Ukraine in 2014 and supported pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine.

Ignoring American efforts to destroy the Islamic State, Mr. Putin said the
problem of international terrorism "is being solved by our servicemen in Syria,"
where Russian warplanes have helped President Bashar al-Assad regain control of
large sections of Aleppo, once Syria's biggest city, from rebels, some of whom
are supported by the United States.

A new foreign policy doctrine signed by Mr. Putin on Thursday underscored the
problems with Russia's relations with the West and set a high bar for any swift
easing of tensions. The doctrine, a summary of how Moscow sees the world and
what it wants, stressed the gravity of "the serious crisis between Russia and
the West" and blamed this on "geopolitical expansion" by NATO and the European
Union. It said Russia and the United States could work together only on the
basis of "equality, mutual respect for interests and noninterference in the
internal affairs of each other."

Insisting that Russia does "not accept any attempts to organize pressure, either
military, political, economic or of any other kind," the policy doctrine said
Moscow "reserves the right to react hard to unfriendly actions, including
through the strengthening of national defense and the taking of reciprocal or
asymmetrical measures."

Most of Mr. Putin's hourlong speech, however, was devoted to domestic issues,
not foreign relations. He acknowledged that two years of economic decline had
brought great hardship but insisted this had only made the country stronger, and
he focused on sectors of the economy that he said have done well, like
agriculture and high-tech.

While proposing no significant reforms to revive Russia's sluggish economy -
which shrank by 3.7 percent last year and has contracted further this year,
though at a much slower pace - Mr. Putin said he had ordered the government to
work out a "substantive action plan" to ensure that Russia achieves higher
growth rates than elsewhere by 2020 and elevates its position in the global
economy.

Russia's economy ranks around 13th in the world, on the basis of its gross
domestic product, behind countries like Australia, Canada and South Korea

What shape such an economic development plan might take has been the object of
bitter feuding between more liberal members of the government, who favor
privatization, and those who want the state to keep control of crucial
industries. The liberal camp suffered a major setback earlier this month with
the late-night arrest on murky corruption charges of one of the country's main
economic policy makers, Aleksei Ulyukaev, a liberal stalwart who had served
until his arrest as minister of economic development.

Mr. Putin said parliamentary elections in Russia in September, which delivered a
resounding victory to his United Russia party, had "proven that we live in a
healthy society that is confident in its fair demands, in which immunity to
populism and demagoguery is growing stronger and the importance of mutual
support, solidarity and unity are highly valued."

Sophia Kishkovsky and Oleg Matsnev contributed reporting.

PHOTO: In a departure, Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, avoided sarcastic
comments about the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI KOCHETKOV/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

Related Articles


     ·    Putin and Trump Talk on Phone and Agree to Improve Ties, Kremlin Says
     ·    For Russia and Putin, a Surprise Gift From America
     ·    Donald Trump's Putin Crush


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             770 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Trump Sealed Carrier Deal With Mix of Threat and Incentive

BYLINE: NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1335 words



HIGHLIGHT: As critics decried incentives for Carrier in exchange for keeping
workers in Indiana, and others called the effort a new path to economic growth,
the company announced other cuts.


INDIANAPOLIS - The long-promised call from Donald J. Trump to the heating and
cooling giant Carrier came early one morning about a week after the election,
when he unexpectedly won the industrial heartland.

The president-elect warned Gregory Hayes, the chief executive of Carrier's
parent, United Technologies, that he had to find a way to save a substantial
share of the jobs it had vowed to move to Mexico, or he would face the wrath of
the incoming administration.

On Thursday, as he toured the factory floor here to take credit for saving
roughly half of the 2,000 jobs Indiana stood to lose, Mr. Trump sent a message
to other businesses as well that he intended to follow through on his pledges to
impose stiff tariffs on imports from companies that move production overseas and
ship their products back to the United States.

"This is the way it's going to be," Mr. Trump said in an interview with The New
York Times. "Corporate America is going to have to understand that we have to
take care of our workers also."

Mr. Trump was accompanied by his vice president-elect, Mike Pence, who is
currently Indiana's governor. He was in the room at Trump Tower when the
president-elect placed his initial call to Mr. Hayes, and he was the one who
sealed the deal with the chief executive with a handshake in the building on
Monday.

"I don't want them moving out of the country without consequences," Mr. Trump
said, even if that means angering the free-market-oriented Republicans he beat
in the primaries but will have to work with on Capitol Hill.

"The free market has been sorting it out and America's been losing," Mr. Pence
added, as Mr. Trump interjected, "Every time, every time."

But since the pact was disclosed on Tuesday, critics have pounced on Carrier's
receipt of $7 million in incentives from the state of Indiana - just the kind of
corporate giveaways Mr. Trump knocked as he slammed Carrier on the campaign
trail last spring.

Others have pointed out that cutting individual deals with different companies
is a costly and ineffective way to stem the powerful forces that impel business
to move factories and jobs in a highly competitive global and national economy.

"He has signaled to every corporation in America that they can threaten to
offshore jobs in exchange for business-friendly tax benefits and incentives,"
Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont wrote in an op-ed on Thursday for The
Washington Post.

In Washington, Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, suggested that
Carrier's decision, while "good news," was only a drop in the bucket.

"Mr. Trump would have to make 804 more announcements just like that to equal the
standard of jobs in the manufacturing sector that were created in this country
under President Obama's watch," Mr. Earnest said. "So this is good news, but the
incoming president has a high bar to meet when it comes to putting in place the
kind of economic policies that would benefit American workers."

Still, Mr. Trump's appeal is likely to lead to a more fundamental shift in the
way Washington approachesdealing with corporate decisions on where to locate
jobs.

"Contrary to early reactions from the left and the right, the Carrier deal opens
the door to a new approach to U.S. economic growth policy that is sorely
needed," the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a research and
advocacy group, said in a statement. "It sets the precedent that growing,
attracting and retaining globally traded, innovation-based industries that are
both high-value and pay high wages is central to U.S. economic growth."

Despite the cheers Mr. Trump received as he walked around the factory floor,
where the lines continued to run and he had to shout at times to be heard,
another 1,000 workers for the company in Indiana will be losing their jobs.

This includes 700 at a United Technologies factory in nearby Huntington, as well
as several hundred here. The 800 or so jobs that are being preserved are mostly
on the lines that build medium- and high-efficiency gas furnaces.

Not long after Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence departed for the airport and to another
rally in Ohio to celebrate his victory, workers coming in for the night shift
received a letter titled "Company Update on Indianapolis Operations."

"While this announcement is good news for many, we recognize it is not good news
for everyone," the letter stated. "We are moving forward with previously
announced plans to relocate the fan coil manufacturing lines, with the expected
completion by the end of 2017."

United Technologies, Carrier's parent, saw the writing on the wall as soon as
Mr. Trump declared victory last month. Offering to preserve jobs, even at the
cost of some of the $65 million savings the company expected from the move,
could serve its larger corporate interests.

"Every penny counts, but if we step back and I'm looking at earnings of $6.60
per share this year, 2 cents is an easy concession if the president-elect
listens to some of the company's bigger concerns," said Howard Rubel, a senior
equity analyst with Jefferies, an investment banking firm in New York.

And Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence, while providing a carrot through the state
incentives and promises of future business tax cuts, held an implicit stick: the
threat of pulling federal contracts from Carrier's parent, United Technologies.
Mr. Trump and his team were well aware that the amount United Technologies stood
to lose in those contracts dwarfed the savings from moving some of its
operations to Monterrey from Indiana.

Despite only accomplishing half of what had been promised in the campaign, Mr.
Trump and Mr. Pence predicted that the number of jobs ultimately preserved could
rise as Carrier follows through on its promise to invest more than $16 million
in the state.

That provision, plus the incentives, were worked out between Carrier and
officials from the state of Indiana's economic development office, with Mr.
Pence overseeing the process.

The vice president-elect insisted that the incentives did not represent a
giveaway on Mr. Trump's part, and claimed United Technologies had turned down a
similar-size package of breaks in March.

What made the difference, he said, was Mr. Trump's public pressure, as well his
promise to cut corporate taxes and ease regulation.

"These jobs were gone," Mr. Pence said. "I sat the executives down in my
governor's office in the statehouse in early March. They said we aren't in a
position to reconsider this in any way, shape or form."

Mr. Trump, too, played down the role of the incentives. And he said he did not
directly raise the $5 billion to $6 billion in federal contracts United
Technologies receives, much of it from the Pentagon.

But company officials are acutely aware that its Pratt & Whitney unit, among
other things, supplies jet engines to the Air Force's most advanced fighter and
many other planes, making it much more vulnerable to political pressure than
other, lesser-known manufacturers that have been steadily closing shop in the
Midwest and moving production south of the border.

"It may have a played a role in their equation," Mr. Trump allowed. "I never
mentioned it. I didn't feel I had to."

What about the fact that Mr. Trump frequently sourced products for his
properties overseas, along with some popular Trump-branded merchandise? Will he
lead by example and buy more goods made in the U.S.A.?

"I buy thousands and thousands of TVs," he said. "I would like to, but they
essentially don't make them in the U.S. You know the hats I do? It took us
forever to find a company that can make a hat in the U.S."

PHOTOS: Donald J. Trump visited workers at a Carrier factory in Indianapolis
after persuading the company to cut fewer jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A1); Employees at a Carrier plant in Indianapolis during Donald
J. Trump's visit on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY A J MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A17)

Related Articles


     ·    Trump Saved Jobs at Carrier, but More Midwest Jobs Are in Jeopardy
     ·    Trump to Announce Carrier Plant Will Keep Jobs in U.S.


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             771 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

The Trump Transition Reality Show;
The Run-Up

BYLINE: MARK LEIBOVICH

SECTION: PODCASTS

LENGTH: 944 words



HIGHLIGHT: As guest host of The Run-Up this week, I speak with my colleagues
about the parade of potential cabinet appointees visiting Trump Tower.


Just blocks from where we're sitting in Times Square, President-elect Donald J.
Trump has been hosting a parade of potential cabinet appointees in the heavily
fortified Trump Tower, also known as White House North. The daily drama is being
punctuated and animated by Mr. Trump's provocative early morning tweets.

This week on The Run-Up, we devote our show to Mr. Trump's transition into the
White House - one of the most unusual and unpredictable transitions in recent
memory.

Michael Barbaro is finally taking some time off - he is on vacation this week at
an undisclosed location. So I am taking over the microphone this week. I'm the
chief national correspondent for The New York Times Magazine.

Joining me from Washington, where I'm normally based, are my colleagues Michael
Shear and Julie Davis, two of our crack White House reporters, who are now in
their own transition moment, from covering the Obama administration to covering
the Trump administration. I'm also joined in New York by Charlie Homans, the
political editor at the magazine.

We start by talking about Mitt Romney's public pageant to be appointed secretary
of state. Why would he be putting himself through this?

Mr. Shear says those who know Mr. Romney say he has "a sense of service, partly
because of his Mormon faith but also a sense that he wants to serve the
country,"

Given how fiercely Mr. Romney condemned Mr. Trump during the campaign - calling
him a phony, a con man, a fraud - Mr. Shear is just as intrigued by the opposite
question: not why Mr. Romney would put himself through this process, but why Mr.
Trump would even offer him the job.

Ms. Davis has an answer, based on her reporting. "One of the things that we know
that he said privately about Mitt Romney is that he seems like he's straight out
of central casting for secretary of state, which, coming from Donald Trump, is
the highest possible praise."

We discuss what's in store for Rudy Giuliani, whether Chris Christie is off the
scene entirely, what to make of Kellyanne Conway's seemingly scripted "going
rogue" moment and what, generally, we expect from a Trump presidency.

"I think the institution of the White House and the physical building has a huge
impact on its occupants," Mr. Shear says. "It's possible that once they move
into that building and once they start flying around on the plane and they're in
the East Room, that some of the tradition, some of the things that normally
happen that presidents do, will start happening. It will never be exactly like
Obama - it shouldn't be, and it won't be - but I think it may be more normal
than people think."

We also talk about Mr. Trump's tweets, and the question of how the media should
cover them.

"I've been sort of mystified at the notion that we should somehow ignore what
are by most accounts completely unrehearsed, un-poll-tested utterances from the
mouth of the person who's about to become president of the United States," Ms.
Davis says.

"We don't have to retweet them credulously - we shouldn't - we don't have to
report them without any context or fact-check element - we shouldn't - but for
the most part each one of these things is an important window into the way he's
thinking, certainly the way he's communicating with 16 million of his followers,
and it contributes to a portrait of him that, frankly, we don't have that many
other primary sources to fill out."

"We're in the early stages of an unprecedented experiment," Mr. Homans adds.
"We've never had this sort of window on any president before. There are a ton of
fascinating implications of that, that we haven't sorted out. What does the
steady stream of kidding-not-kidding utterances mean in terms of how we read
more formal statements by Trump or by his administration? How does the rest of
the world, in the event of a diplomatic incident, read official proclamations
coming from the White House?

We end with a lightning-round question: Is Donald Trump having fun?

How do I listen? Two ways

From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above.

Or if you're on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and
subscribe to the series.

On your iPhone or iPad:

1. Open your podcast app. It's a pre-loaded app called "Podcasts" with a purple
icon. (This link may help.)

2. Search for the series. Tap on the "search" magnifying glass icon at the
bottom of the screen, type in "The Run-Up" and select it from the list of
results.

3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the "subscribe" button to have new
episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to
be alerted when a new episode arrives.

4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before
deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series
page. If you have an internet connection, you'll be able to stream the episode.

On your Android phone or tablet:

1. Open your podcast app. It's a pre-loaded app called "Play Music" with an
orange-and-yellow icon. (This link may help.)

2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the
screen, search for the name of the series and select it from the list of
results. You may have to scroll down to find the "Podcasts" search results.

3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word "subscribe" to have new
episodes sent to your phone free.

4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before
deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series
page. If you have an internet connection, you'll be able to stream the episode.

Get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing
newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             772 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Donald Trump's Cabinet Choices Deepen an Age-Old Republican Rift

BYLINE: JEREMY W. PETERS

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1284 words



HIGHLIGHT: As Mr. Trump fills his cabinet with people of wealth and power, he is
rekindling animosity between his anti-establishment supporters and more
traditional Republicans.


WASHINGTON - As President-elect Donald J. Trump fills his cabinet with people of
wealth and power, he is rekindling animosity between his anti-establishment
supporters and more traditional Republicans, a rift that could test the
endurance of his new political coalition.

Some supporters, including those closest to Mr. Trump, are warning him that
after running for president as a disrupter of the political and ruling classes,
he risks charges of hypocrisy by bringing into his administration the kinds of
people he vowed to drive out of Washington.

"It's a delicate dance," said Tony Perkins, the president of the Family Research
Council. Mr. Perkins added that no one fully knew what to expect from the new
president or his cabinet, or what the role of the conservative movement would be
for the next four years.

"Part of this is just establishing what those relationships and those boundaries
are going to be like," he said. "It's imperative that the Trump administration
walks in lock step with the Trump campaign in terms of how their policies match
their promises."

Those expressing unease with Mr. Trump's appointments, or potential
appointments, include two factions on the right. There are the traditional
conservatives, like Mr. Perkins, who would prefer hard-liners and are
particularly unhappy that Mitt Romney is being considered as secretary of state.
And there are the nationalists who are chiefly focused on immigration and trade
and recoil at the prospect of Mr. Trump's being surrounded by Wall Street
figures.

Mr. Trump announced on Tuesday that he would nominate Elaine L. Chao - a cabinet
secretary under President George W. Bush, a member of many corporate boards, and
the wife of the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell - to be his
transportation secretary. On Wednesday morning, his picks were Wilbur Ross, the
billionaire investor, for commerce secretary and Todd Ricketts, an owner of the
Chicago Cubs and one of the president-elect's most important fund-raisers, as
deputy commerce secretary.

Then, to lead the Treasury Department, Mr. Trump named Steven Mnuchin, a former
banker at Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street firm he pilloried during his campaign
as the epitome of a rigged financial system. During the Republican primary
contest, Mr. Trump repeatedly brought up the fact that Heidi Cruz, the wife of
one of his rivals, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, worked for Goldman.

The apparent contradictions do not seem to bother others on Mr. Trump's team.
Stephen K. Bannon, the president-elect's chief strategist and the strongest
populist voice among his advisers, is himself a wealthy former Goldman Sachs
banker and has been supportive of elevating Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Ross, whom he
sees as Washington outsiders like him.

But the right-wing writer and filmmaker Mike Cernovich was not so sanguine -
especially about Mr. Mnuchin, who not only has a stint at Goldman Sachs on his
résumé but also once worked for George Soros, the billionaire financier who
contributes to myriad liberal causes.

"Trump's Treasury Secretary is former Goldman Sachs, former Soros employee," Mr.
Cernovich wrote on Twitter. "WTF is going on at @transition2017?"

"It's 'make the establishment and Goldman Sachs great again,'" said Mark Levin,
a conservative talk radio host. "This is not Trump draining the swamp. This is
the swamp draining Trump."

Others, while uneasy, expressed cautious hope that the officials would only
carry out the populist platform Mr. Trump ran to victory on last month.

"As long as they effectively implement and advocate for the Trump agenda, all
this criticism will fade away," said Laura Ingraham, the conservative radio
host.

For some conservatives, Mr. Trump's decision to reach out to Mr. Romney as a
possible secretary of state has been even more puzzling. The onetime head of a
private equity firm, Mr. Romney was branded by his fellow Republicans, as well
as Democrats, as a symbol of Wall Street during his losing 2012 presidential
campaign. Especially after his criticism of Mr. Trump this year, he is seen as
the quintessential member of the Republican establishment.

Newt Gingrich, a former House speaker and a confidant of Mr. Trump's, mocked the
scene on Tuesday between the president-elect and Mr. Romney: a sit-down over
frog legs and diver scallops at a Manhattan restaurant.

"I'm sure, at an elegant three-star restaurant in New York, that Mitt was fully
at home, happy to share his vision of populism," Mr. Gingrich said on Ms.
Ingraham's program. "Every day this hangs out there," he said, "it's harder and
more expensive to pick Romney."

The fight over Mr. Trump's cabinet raises the same essential questions of how to
advance conservatism that split Republicans for the better part of the last
decade: whether the party was too compromising on its core principles, too
sensitive to shifting demographics and too timid to nominate a hard-line true
believer. Now that Mr. Trump has won and shattered those conventions, the
message from some of the people who feel the Republican Party turned its back on
him is unforgiving.

"Trump came in and slayed the dragon," said Richard Viguerie, a veteran
conservative activist and agitator against the party establishment. "And now
he's going to go back and breathe life into this dragon that voters rejected? It
just doesn't make any sense to us."

Mr. Viguerie likened a Romney appointment to President Ronald Reagan's naming
George Bush as his running mate in 1980, a decision that many conservatives
still look back on with regret, given the relatively centrist agenda Mr. Bush
would pursue during his own term as president. "Romney would basically be a
Trojan horse," he said.

Other conservatives are equally incredulous about the idea of nominating Mr.
Romney. "A slap in the face," said L. Brent Bozell, the founder of the Media
Research Center, a conservative group that critiques the news media. David Lane,
a prominent Christian conservative, said it would be "disastrous for the
Republican Party." Representative Chris Collins of New York said it made little
sense for Mr. Trump to appoint a "self-serving egomaniac" like Mr. Romney.
Though Mr. Romney remains under serious consideration for the secretary of state
job, Mr. Trump and his team are sensitive to the appearance of hypocrisy and are
working to maintain the "blue-collar billionaire" image that he nurtured with
working-class voters.

On Thursday, Mr. Trump returned to the Rust Belt region that helped deliver the
White House to him. He stopped first at an air conditioning factory in Indiana
to announce an agreement that he said would prevent jobs from leaving the
country, and then headed to Cincinnati for the first stop on what he calls a
thank-you tour, which is planned as a series of campaign-style rallies.

But it is not clear how much his supporters will ultimately care who ends up in
the cabinet. His political base has been a forgiving bunch, rarely punishing him
for contradictions and backtracking that would hurt other politicians.

Even Mr. Collins conceded that Mr. Trump essentially had carte blanche. "I think
they trust, implicitly trust, Donald Trump to make his campaign promises a
reality," he said.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.

PHOTO: Mitt Romney after dining with President-elect Donald J. Trump on Tuesday.
He is being considered to lead the State Department. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HODGSON
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

Related Articles


     ·    James Mattis, Outspoken Ex-Marine, Is Trump's Choice as Defense
          Secretary
     ·    Trump's Economic Cabinet Picks Signal Embrace of Wall St. Elite
     ·    Trump Taps Hollywood's Mnuchin for Treasury and Dines With Romney


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             773 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

The Noah's Ark of Awards;
Still Processing

BYLINE: WESLEY MORRIS and JENNA WORTHAM

SECTION: PODCASTS

LENGTH: 549 words



HIGHLIGHT: This year's class for the Presidential Medal of Freedom spared no
expense. Two basketball players? Why not?


Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. Robert De Niro. Bill and Melinda Gates. Cicely Tyson. Ellen
DeGeneres. Bruce Springsteen, Diana Ross. The list goes on. It was a lot. In
fact, this might be the best class ever to receive the Presidential Medal of
Freedom.

Wesley declares it "the single most moving cultural experience I had this year"
on the latest episode of Still Processing. He is joined by Alex Pappademas, with
whom he used to co-host a podcast called "Do You Like Prince Movies?" They open
by discussing President Obama's Presidential Medal of Freedom awards.

"It was an embarrassment of riches," Alex says. "It's as if they had a master
list of who they wanted to give these awards to and then they just gave it to
all of them."

Wesley agrees: "There is a kind of Noah's Ark aspect to this."

"You have Michael Jordan and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar," Alex says. "It was like, 'We
don't have to make the hard choices here for one person representing one field.
We can have two basketball players here. Why not, let's do it.' "

But for all the joy of having these superstars gathered in one place, Alex says
that he was "sort of melancholy about it."

"It feels like a last statement, a last cultural statement, from this White
House, from this administration, from the Obama era," he says. "This is going to
be a very, very different party next year."

We also share our feelings on the singer The Weeknd. And Jenna returns, via
long-distance phone call from Mozambique, to tell us what's happening on her
trip.

How do I listen? Two ways

From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above.

Or if you're on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and
subscribe to the series.

On your iPhone or iPad:

1. Open your podcast app. It's a pre-loaded app called "Podcasts" with a purple
icon. (This link may help.)

2. Search for the series. Tap on the "search" magnifying glass icon at the
bottom of the screen, type in "Still Processing" and select it from the list of
results.

3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the "subscribe" button to have new
episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to
be alerted when a new episode arrives.

4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before
deciding to subscribe, tap on the episode title from the list on the series
page. If you have an internet connection, you'll be able to stream the episode.

On your Android phone or tablet:

1. Open your podcast app. It's a pre-loaded app called "Play Music" with an
orange-and-yellow icon. (This link may help.)

2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the
screen, search for "Still Processing" and select it from the list of results.
You may have to scroll down to find the "Podcasts" search results.

3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word "subscribe" to have new
episodes sent to your phone free.

4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before
deciding to subscribe, click on the episode title from the list on the series
page. If you have an internet connection, you'll be able to stream the episode.

Wesley Morris is the critic at large for The New York Times and a staff writer
for The New York Times Magazine. Jenna Wortham is a staff writer for the
magazine.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             774 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

'The Women Who Made New York': Icons, Trailblazers and Visionaries;
Nonfiction

BYLINE: MAUREEN O'CONNOR

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 792 words



HIGHLIGHT: Julie Scelfo's book positions itself as an antidote to the
historiographical tradition of forgetting - and belatedly remembering - women.


THE WOMEN WHO MADE NEW YORK
By Julie Scelfo. Illustrated by Hallie Heald.
335 pp. Seal Press. $24.

I started reading "The Women Who Made New York" in October, around the time the
presidential race got ugly - and extra New York-y. Speaking at a Trump rally in
Ocala, Fla., former Mayor Rudy Giuliani ridiculed Hillary Clinton's work to
rebuild New York after Sept.[#x202f]11. "I was there that day," Giuliani said.
"I don't remember seeing Hillary Clinton." Newspapers published those quotes -
accompanied by pictures of Giuliani and Clinton standing shoulder to shoulder at
ground zero on Sept. 12, when elected officials were first permitted onto the
site. "I made a mistake," Giuliani later admitted. He had forgotten the woman
was also there.

Forgetting - and belatedly remembering - women is a historiographical tradition
as old as history itself. "The Women Who Made New York" positions itself as an
antidote to that process. Written by Julie Scelfo and illustrated by Hallie
Heald, the volume features 126 female artists, activists, politicians, criminals
and tycoons. Legends like Brooke Astor, Ella Fitzgerald, Edith Wharton, Anna
Wintour and Debbie Harry receive authoritative write-ups that also pay tribute
to the lesser-known women who cleared the path for them. You've heard of Billie
Holiday, the legendary jazz singer whose haunting performance of "Strange Fruit"
described lynching in agonizing, unforgettable language. But what about Ethel
Waters, the daughter of a young rape victim who rose out of poverty to become
one of the first Harlem musicians to make it big on Broadway? Six years before
Holiday recorded "Strange Fruit," Waters began performing "Supper Time," a song
about a woman discovering her husband has been lynched. "A number so moving it
routinely stopped the show," Scelfo writes, bringing contemporary social
commentary to the Great White Way.

Equally enriching is Scelfo's treatment of women usually relegated to "wife of"
status. A chapter called "The Builders" opens with a paean to Emily Warren
Roebling, who completed the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge when her
engineer husband fell ill. Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis appears in "The
Preservationists," in an entry that focuses on her work to preserve historical
buildings. The famous men in Jackie's life appear only in asides - or when their
presence serves a greater purpose, like the time Jackie choreographed a kiss on
the steps of City Hall while campaigning to save a Park Avenue landmark. I don't
think I've ever seen a Jackie O profile so resolutely focused on substance
instead of style - to the point that I felt a little bit deprived, until I
turned the page and saw Heald's dreamy watercolor portrait of the windswept
first lady in a sumptuous roll-neck sweater. At last, I thought, a book that
indulges my superficiality without wasting any words on it.

With its romantic illustrations and requisite three pages dedicated to Joan
Didion, it would be easy to dismiss "The Women Who Made New York" as mere
gifting bait for anyone with a niece at Barnard College. (And to be clear, your
niece probably will love this.) But for every tale that makes you pump your fist
in triumph, there is one that makes you clench your jaw in anger. Take the story
of Eve Adams, a Polish-Jewish immigrant who ran a literary social club for
"lesbian and bi-curious women" in the 1920s: An early promoter of Henry Miller
and Anaïs Nin, Adams was jailed and deported for making "a homosexual advance"
toward an undercover cop. "She spent the 1930s in Paris working as a bookseller,
but in 1940, the Nazi invasion drove her south to Nice," Scelfo writes. "Soon
thereafter she was arrested and, in 1943, forced on a train to Auschwitz, where
she was promptly murdered."

This willingness to recount hardship as unflinchingly as success allows the book
to function as more than an aside that "many women were there." But it also
means that no matter how persuasively Scelfo makes the case for her subjects'
achievements, a deeply depressing question remains: What more would have been
accomplished if circumstances were different? If Eve Adams's life had not been
cut short, would she have discovered another Miller or Nin? If Emily Warren
Roebling had continued as an engineer, what else would she have built? How much
talent, intelligence and innovation has been wasted, ignored or forgotten? As
the joke goes, women do everything men do, but backward and in high heels.
(Although it should be noted that Martha Graham, in the "Counterculturists" part
of this collection, performed barefoot.) What can be accomplished on even
footing will have to wait for some future edition.

Maureen O'Connor is a columnist at New York magazine.

DRAWING: Emily Warren Roebling (DRAWING BY HALLIE HEALD)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             775 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

When Fake News Was Funny;
Nonfiction

BYLINE: JOHN KOBLIN

SECTION: BOOKS; review

LENGTH: 673 words



HIGHLIGHT: Chris Smith's oral history traces the 16-year sprint that turned "The
Daily Show" from a second-rate cable presentation into a vital institution in
American politics and the media.


THE DAILY SHOW (THE BOOK)
An Oral History
By Chris Smith
Illustrated. 459 pp. Grand Central Publishing. $30.

After an election in which facts could be oh so elusive, it's instructive to
look back to 2003.

That's when several "Daily Show" staff members heard a speech from President
George W. Bush that directly contradicted things the presidential candidate
George W. Bush had said about foreign policy. It dawned on them to pull old tape
and set up a mock debate in a split screen: Bush versus Bush.

It was a breakthrough for Jon Stewart's show.

"If we, as basically stoner comedy people, could remember it, how was it
possible that the actual media couldn't remember it, or didn't care, or didn't
think it was important?" Ben Karlin, a former producer of the show, says.

That's one valuable anecdote in this exhaustive oral history, which traces the
16-year sprint that turned "The Daily Show" from a second-rate cable
presentation into a vital institution in American politics and the media.

The book, compiled by the New York magazine contributing editor Chris Smith,
rides through moments of history like the 2000 recount, Sept. 11, the 2004
election and the Obama years, explaining how all of it altered and refined "The
Daily Show" with Stewart at the helm.

As in other late-night show tales, the best stories here involve contract talks.
And the book breaks plenty of news. It reveals that in 2012, negotiations for
Stewart and Stephen Colbert - whose show "The Colbert Report" followed "The
Daily Show" on Comedy Central - became so tense, both stars temporarily quit.

The appointed villain is Philippe Dauman, former chairman of Comedy Central's
parent company, Viacom. Colbert was ready to stay through the 2016 election, but
Dauman refused. (That worked out well for Colbert, who in 2014 was hired to
replace David Letterman on CBS. "Thank God they said no," he says.) Stewart also
blames Viacom for botching the chance to sign John Oliver as his replacement
before Oliver left for his successful HBO show.

But delicious stories like these - the lifeblood of any oral history - can also
be fleeting. When the journalists James Andrew Miller and Tom Shales paired up
to compile oral histories of "Saturday Night Live" and ESPN, there were tales of
sex and drugs. But "The Daily Show" was a different animal. "The drug stories
are pretty lame," Elliott Kalan, a writer on the show, tells Smith. "The sex
stories are pretty lame."

The "Daily Show" staff was, instead, mostly hard-working. There are allusions to
unhappiness in the writers' room because of Stewart's autocratic rule, with one
producer saying "plenty of people" would describe Stewart as a tyrant. But the
producer in question wasn't one of them, and only rarely does any actual
bitterness spill onto the page.

Instead, there's space dedicated to grindingly banal details like how morning
and afternoon meetings were crucial to the show's success. One producer is
quoted discussing the pride she took in organizing a staff clambake and wine
tasting.

The book's tone can be a bit wide-eyed, too. After "The Daily Show" wins one of
its first Emmy Awards, Smith writes that despite their commercial and critical
success, "Stewart and the staff, to a remarkable degree, stayed focused on the
task of creating 160 or so shows each year."

Still, the book is a valuable reminder of the show's role in introducing an era
of video-based fact-checking in American politics. Producers recount seeing a
politician lie on CNN, only to have the reporter respond, "Well, we'll have to
leave it there" - a too-common occurrence. "The Daily Show" ran a segment
holding both the politician and the network accountable.

"I think Jon's joke was, 'Don't leave it there. There is a terrible place to
leave it!'[#x200a]" the producer Ramin Hedayati tells Smith. "Now when something
crazy happens on CNN, there are five blogs that flag it. Back then, it was
either us or no one."

John Koblin covers television for the media section of The Times.

PHOTO: Jon Stewart (PHOTOGRAPH BY NORMAN JEAN ROY/COMEDY CENTRAL (2002))

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             776 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                      December 1, 2016 Thursday 00:00 EST

Count Those Votes! Again!;
Op-Ed Columnist

BYLINE: GAIL COLLINS

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 832 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nothing will change, but we'll be reminded that Donald Trump is one
of the least successful successful presidential candidates ever.


Presidential recount underway. What's your take on it?

- This is a plot to distract the country from the stupendous Election-Day fraud
in which millions of dead people cast their votes for Hillary Clinton.

- Is it going to get rid of Donald Trump? If it isn't, I don't care. I don't
care about anything. Excuse me, I'm going back to bed.

Wow, happy holidays.

Yes, it's true the postelection nation is still divided, this time between the
folks who don't want to believe Trump is going to be president and the ones who
don't want to hear that more people actually voted for Hillary.

But about the recount: The star of this show is Jill Stein, the Green Party
nominee for president. On Wednesday Stein's lawyers filed paperwork to force
Michigan to recheck its vote tallies. She's also getting a recount in Wisconsin
and she's working on Pennsylvania.

Since Stein got only 51,463 votes in Michigan to Trump's 2,279,543, this would
seem like an exercise in ... um, futility? Deeply cynical minds think the real
goal might just be to increase her donor database - her recount campaign has
drawn more than $6 million. But Stein says she wants to demonstrate the need to
reform the nation's extremely messy voting system.

"It's a healing and positive thing to examine the vote," she said in a phone
interview.

Hillary Clinton lost Michigan by 10,704 under the current count. Virtually no
one - certainly not the Clinton lawyers - thinks she's going to make that up in
a recount. However, it's definitely possible Clinton could have gotten 10,705
votes more if Stein had stayed off the ballot in the first place. "Jill Stein is
the friend who ruins your wedding but really shows up for you during the
divorce," twittered comedian Morgan Murphy.

Stein claims most of her supporters wouldn't have voted for anybody if the Green
Party hadn't been an option. But even if she did make a difference, she doesn't
care. "I don't regard one candidate as preferable to the other," she said.

We had heard something similar from Ralph Nader, whose presence on the ballot in
2000 probably cost Al Gore Florida, and the presidency. On many of Nader's
issues, Gore was not great. But the point of the American system of democracy is
that in the end, you often have to take the responsibility for choosing the
better of two unlovely options. And if Gore had been elected, we wouldn't have
invaded Iraq. Case closed.

Knowing what we know now, do you think the best thing the Greens could have done
to battle global warming would have been running around trying to get attention
for Jill Stein, or working like maniacs to support Clinton and keep Donald Trump
out of the White House?

"In my view they're both lethal to the environment," said Stein.

In my view, the Green Party screwed up, big time. We will think of it from now
on as the Chartreuse Party.

The one positive effect of the recount, besides reassuring people who worry the
Russians might be capable of hacking a massive American vote tally, is the way
it reminds the nation, every day, that Donald Trump is one of the least
successful successful presidential candidates in American history.

He lost the popular vote to Clinton by more than two million votes. Due to our
extremely strange Electoral College system, five men have gotten elected
president even though more people voted for their opponent. But no one in modern
history has come anywhere near Trump's ginormous negative accomplishment.

The only presidential victor since the Civil War who did worse was Rutherford B.
Hayes, a Republican who lost the popular vote to Samuel Tilden in 1876 and won
the electoral tally only after Republicans challenged the results in four
states, all of which were finally decided by a Republican-dominated electoral
commission on party-line votes. Everybody accused everybody else of fraud.

It was an election dominated by economic fear and racism. However, Hayes never
claimed that "millions of people" in the contested states voted illegally, like
another candidate we can think of. Perhaps Hayes decided winners don't whine.
Perhaps it was because there were not yet millions of voters.

It's important for our mental health to accept that the current recount isn't
going to change the election results, although it's theoretically conceivable
that additional legal challenges could make it impossible for anybody to win the
necessary 270 votes when the Electoral College meets on Dec. 19. That would
throw the decision over to the Republican-controlled Congress, and an obscure
procedure that happened once before, when John Quincy Adams defeated Andrew
Jackson.

I'm bringing that up just so I can note that John Quincy Adams is the only
person besides Rutherford B. Hayes who won the presidency with a worse negative
percentage of the popular vote than Donald Trump. Big loser! Sad!

O.K., done ranting. For today.

I invite you to join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             777 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Trump Backers Go to Court to Block Vote Recounts in 3 States

BYLINE: MONICA DAVEY, JULIE BOSMAN and STEVE EDER

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 614 words



HIGHLIGHT: Supporters of the president-elect in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and
Michigan are ramping up efforts to stop the election recounts in their tracks.


LANSING, Mich. - Supporters of President-elect Donald J. Trump have filed legal
challenges in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan in a suddenly robust effort
to stop the presidential election recount efforts there.

Bill Schuette, the attorney general of Michigan, said that the recount,
initiated by Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate, put Michigan voters at risk
of "paying millions and potentially losing their voice in the Electoral College
in the process."

"This court cannot allow a dilatory and frivolous request for a recount by an
aggrieved party to silence all Michigan votes for president," Mr. Schuette, a
Republican, said in a court filing.

A lawsuit against the Wisconsin Elections Commission filed in Federal District
Court by the Great America PAC, the Stop Hillary PAC and Ronald R. Johnson, a
Wisconsin resident, argued that the recount could "unjustifiably cast doubt" on
Mr. Trump's victory in that state.

The plaintiffs argued that the recount, which began across the state's 72
counties on Thursday morning, should be halted immediately, in part because
there is a substantial chance that it cannot be accurately completed by the
deadline of Dec. 12. In 2011, a statewide recount took close to a month.

In Michigan on Friday, where the recount is still pending, the Board of State
Canvassers met to consider an objection to the recount by Mr. Trump.

Lawyers for Mr. Trump told the canvassing board, which is made up of two
Democrats and two Republicans, that it should not allow a recount to proceed,
describing it as needless, too expensive and not required by Michigan law.
Besides, Ms. Stein came nowhere near winning the state.

"This recount petition is absolutely unprecedented in the history of Michigan
election law," said Gary Gordon, a lawyer for Mr. Trump and his campaign.

A lawyer for Ms. Stein, Mark Brewer, said Mr. Trump's campaign was making a
"desperate attempt" to avoid a recount. "I would remind everybody that the
original source of the allegation that this election was rigged was Mr. Trump,"
Mr. Brewer told the board.

The Michigan board split, 2-2, along party lines, meaning the recount objection
failed.

Lawyers for Mr. Trump and his allies are also seeking to halt legal proceedings
by Ms. Stein to contest the statewide election results in Pennsylvania.

Lawrence J. Tabas, general counsel of the Republican Party of Pennsylvania, said
in an interview on Friday that Ms. Stein's lawyers had fallen short of
demonstrating that there was fraud or illegal action in the Nov. 8 election.
"They know they have no claim," he said.

"This action by Jill Stein and her supporters - I couldn't even call it a Hail
Mary pass, because that would be insulting to the Hail Mary pass," said Mr.
Tabas, who along with other lawyers, submitted a lengthy brief filed in
Pennsylvania court on Thursday.

The recounts bids are widely viewed as having little chance of making a
difference. But Ms Stein, in a statement, said the challenges to them were an
effort to put "party politics above country."

"In an election already tainted by suspicion, previously expressed by Donald
Trump himself," she said, "verifying the vote is a common-sense procedure that
would put all concerns around voter disenfranchisement to rest. Trump's
desperate attempts to silence voter demands for recounts raise a simple
question: why is Donald Trump afraid of these recounts?"

Ms. Stein has raised millions of dollars for an effort to force recounts in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, states that have recently voted Democratic
and where Mr. Trump won by relatively thin margins.

Monica Davey reported from Lansing, Mich., Julie Bosman from Chicago and Steve
Eder from Philadelphia.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             778 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Politics and Commerce Collide at Art Basel Miami Beach;
Critic's Notebook

BYLINE: JASON FARAGO

SECTION: ARTS; design

LENGTH: 1115 words



HIGHLIGHT: Amid concerns about what challenges the art world might face, there
are still many not-to-miss exhibitions at galleries and museums.


MIAMI BEACH - Even the small talk was more solemn at this year's edition of Art
Basel Miami Beach. On opening day of what is America's largest fair of
contemporary art and Champagne-steeped hedonism, the air kisses were shadowed by
the challenges the presidency of Donald J. Trump might pose to an art world that
likes to imagine itself as a force for progress.

At Wednesday's V.I.P. preview, more sedate than the running-of-the-bulls
ambience of years past, gallerists and curators spoke in apocalyptic terms about
America after Jan. 20, while the collectors - some lightly espoused social
liberalism and ecological commitments aside - were sanguine about the fate of
the art market. If Mr. Trump's plutocratic cabinet choices are any guide, the
rich who buy art here might soon pay even less tax than they do now. (The
nominee for Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, is the son of the art dealer
Robert Mnuchin, whose gallery's booth was heavily trafficked.)

Art Basel, which closes Sunday, offers a chance to see works from around the
world - most importantly from Latin America, home to 31 of the 269 galleries
exhibiting here. But several American galleries have rejigged their booths in
response to the unexpected election of Nov. 8, or else are showing slightly
older works that have taken on new, grimmer airs.

On the booth of the Los Angeles dealer Susanne Vielmetter, a large, stern
portrait in pencil by Karl Haendel depicts Hillary Clinton, lips pursed and eyes
gazing skyward, as one-half of a diptych; the other half is solid, light-sucking
black. Gladstone Gallery, from New York, is showing a painting by Elizabeth
Peyton of Barack Obama, dating to 2008. Then a young senator from Illinois, Mr.
Obama stands before a washy background of blue-and-gray stripes, but Ms.
Peyton's adoring, soft-hued portrait appears shatteringly sad now that the
promise so many saw has been annulled.

And for Gavin Brown's Enterprise, also from New York, the artist Rirkrit
Tiravanija has quickly produced three large, bitter text-based works, each
stenciled on pages of The New York Times from the day after the election. The
works each bear a bleak, ambiguously narrated statement: "THE TYRANNY OF COMMON
SENSE HAS REACHED ITS FINAL STAGE." After years when artists and curators have
mystically insisted that contemporary art could have instant, magical political
benefits, I'll take a little fatalism.

I shouldn't oversell the dourness. Art Basel is still Art Basel, and Miami, mis
compañeros, is still Miami. The sun is shining, the Ubers are surge-priced, the
yacht companies are hosting cocktail parties, and Chaka Khan is singing at Soho
House. The intensely air-conditioned aisles of the Miami Beach Convention Center
feature enough seven-figure art to decorate all your country houses, though one
blue-chip gallery that has tacked to a more historical presentation is Galerie
Gmurzynska, from Zurich, which has mounted a large display of art of the early
Soviet avant-garde. An arresting photocollage from Gustav Klutsis, a great
Latvian graphic artist who was executed on Stalin's orders, features a hammer
and sickle atop masses of workers. The book cover designs of Varvara Stepanova,
dating to 1919, consist of boldly swashed watercolor crosses, ringed with peppy
Cyrillic lettering.

There are other strong historical presentations. A cross section of works by Man
Ray, ranging from photographs of his fellow Surrealists to a swank chess set,
can be seen on the booth of New York's sedulous Dada specialist Francis M.
Naumann. And a mini-show of three allover, pointillist abstractions from the
early 1970s by Howardena Pindell, on the booth of New York's Garth Greenan
Gallery, offers an extraordinary chromatic indulgence; fields of mauve and
seafoam are composed of thousands and thousands of individually inked dots,
prefiguring the works she would later create with paper chad. (Ms. Pindell is
one of several African-American abstract painters now enjoying belated and
deserved attention, and she was on hand in the booth, beaming.)

As usual at Art Basel Miami, it's Latin American galleries, particularly the
Brazilian and Mexican ones, which have the most to offer to visitors who think
of art as more than a class of assets. Bergamin & Gomide, from São Paulo, is
displaying paintings and works on paper by familiar names like Lygia Pape, but
also by Brazilian modernists less attested in Western museums, like Judith
Lauand, whose geometric compositions pared Concretism down to its most minimal
elements, and Alfredo Volpi, who painted faint, woozy-edged abstractions that
are as tantalizing as Ms. Lauand's are exacting. Works by Volpi are also to be
found on the booth of the Rio gallery A Gentil Carioca, while São Paulo's
Galeria Leme is presenting trenchant works by Jaime Lauriano, one of the most
thoughtful artists of Brazil's young and diversifying scene, whose graceful
silk-screened images of strange contraptions turn out to be colonial-era
instruments of torture.

Latin American art is also in focus at the Pérez Art Museum, across Biscayne Bay
in Miami proper, which features a large and hallucinogenic retrospective of the
Argentine-born, French-based artist Julio Le Parc. A pioneer of Op and kinetic
art, Mr. Le Parc tripped out with colorful paintings, like a panorama of groovy
rainbow stripes that would not look out of place on the set of "The Price Is
Right," but also spotlit mobiles, walk-through mirrored installations and
streamers attached to a wind machine that blows at the touch of a button. The
show is a feat of scenography, though its fun house atmosphere may leave you
wondering if every single tendency of the 1960s really needs our reassessment,
or whether some movements have petered out for cause.

The more surprising and satisfying museum retrospective is at the Institute of
Contemporary Art, Miami, an institution that scythed off a few years ago from
the Museum of Contemporary Art North Miami and will move into a permanent
facility next year. For now, in a temporary space in the Design District, the
ICA has put together a superb retrospective of the German artist Thomas Bayrle,
whose stuttering paintings, photocollages and films, most of which examine
systems of transport and urbanism, deserve wider American attention. A professor
at Frankfurt's Städelschule, Mr. Bayrle has spent decades depicting cities and
people as aggregations of hundreds of repeated parts, which he can now do easily
via Photoshop but long performed by hand. His visions of oversaturated cities
offer lots to think about when stopped dead in Basel traffic on the Venetian
Causeway.

Related Articles


     ·    At Art Basel Miami Beach, Fewer Dabblers but Deliberative Sales


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             779 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Wall St. Is Mixed After Solid Jobs Data

BYLINE: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 617 words



HIGHLIGHT: Shares of the coffee chain Starbucks fell after the company said
Howard Schultz would step down as its chief executive in April.


United States markets were mixed on Friday as shares of real estate and phone
companies rose. Bank stocks slipped after a huge rally over the last few weeks.
Bond prices rose after a string of steep declines, sending yields lower.

KEEPING SCORE In early afternoon trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was
down 0.2 percent, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 0.05
percent. The Nasdaq composite index rose 0.03 percent.

JOBS DATA Employers added a solid 178,000 jobs in November, nearly matching the
average monthly gains this year. The unemployment rate also fell to a nine-year
low of 4.6 percent. The figures have cemented market expectations that the
Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again this month. A very weak jobs
report would have been the last thing that might have stopped the Fed from
raising rates.

BONDS Bond prices, which had been falling sharply since the presidential
election, rose in midday trading. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to
2.38 percent from 2.45 percent. That helped utility and real estate companies,
which are often compared to bonds because of their big dividend payments. When
bond yields fall, those stocks become more appealing to investors seeking
income. Shares of Public Storage rose 1.1 percent, and Exelon stock rose 2.4
percent.

BOWING OUT Starbucks shares slid 1.9 percent after the company said Howard
Schultz would step down as chief executive in April. He will remain chairman of
the company, and Starbucks said he would focus on new ideas, like high-end
shops. The company's president and chief operating officer, Kevin Johnson, will
become chief executive.

BANKS Charles Schwab stock declined 2.2 percent and shares of Citigroup fell 1.7
percent as bank stocks moved lower. The S.&P. 500 index of financial stocks is
at its highest price since 2008 and is up 14 percent since the presidential
election.

SMITH & WESSON FALLS Shares of the firearms maker Smith & Wesson gave up 11.5
percent after the company's quarterly guidance disappointed investors.

RETAIL Shares of the discount retailer Five Below rose 12.4 percent after the
company said it was off to a strong start this holiday season. That helped the
stock rebound from losses over the last week. Also rising were shares of Ascena
Retail, the parent of Ann Taylor, Maurices and Dressbarn, which gained 22.2
percent. Gap shares lost 2.5 percent after the company reported weak sales in
November. That included sluggish results for Old Navy, its best-performing
business in recent years.

WORKDAY SLIDES The human resources software company Workday gave a weak
forecast. Aneel Bhusri, the chief executive, said some customers had delayed
completing large deals, partly because of "global uncertainties such as Brexit,
the U.S. presidential election and pending elections" in other industrialized
countries. Workday's stock tumbled 11.9 percent.

EUROPEAN MARKETS In Germany, the DAX edged down 2 percent, and in France, the
CAC 40 lost 0.7 percent. The FTSE 100 closed down 0.3 percent in Britain.

ENERGY Benchmark United States crude oil gained 31 cents, to $51.37 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, the standard for pricing
international oils, rose 22 cents to $54.16 a barrel in London. Oil prices
jumped 13 percent over the last two days after OPEC countries agreed to trim
production.

ASIAN SCORECARD The Nikkei 225 declined 0.5 percent in Japan, while in Hong
Kong, the Hang Seng lost 1.4 percent. The Shanghai composite index dropped 0.9
percent in China. The Kospi lost 0.7 percent in South Korea. In Australia, the
S.&P./ASX 200 fell 1 percent.

CURRENCIES The euro rose slightly, to $1.0659, while the dollar fell 0.3 percent
to 113.65 yen.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             780 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Trump Unveils High-Powered and Well-Heeled Business Council, and Invites
Filipino Strongman to White House;
Transition Briefing

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR, JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS, MAGGIE HABERMAN and NICK
CORASANITI

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1510 words



HIGHLIGHT: The president-elect's new business council will be headed by the
hedge fund billionaire Stephen Schwarzman. His overture to Rodrigo Duterte of
the Philippines is sure to raise eyebrows.


President-elect Donald J. Trump is back at Trump Tower as his team takes shape,
and he's staying busy.

" He invited President Rodrigo R. Duterte of the Philippines to visit the White
House, despite the Filipino's ruthless campaign of extrajudicial killings and
insults to President Obama.

" He named a new advisory team headed by the billionaire hedge fund titan
Stephen A. Schwarzman.

" He is meeting with Senator Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, a Democrat who
seems interested in a job in Mr. Trump's cabinet, perhaps as the secretary of
agriculture.

Trump's new advisory council is loaded with know-how and money.

President-elect Trump won the White House by pledging to be the champion of the
blue-collar workers in Rust Belt states - people he says have been forgotten.

But that's not the profile of those Mr. Trump has advising him on economic
matters and, of course, making America great again. On Friday, he announced the
creation of his Strategic and Policy Forum, headed by Mr.Schwarzman, the
co-founder of Blackstone, a global investment firm, and once the face of Wall
Street excess in the pre-Great Recession era.

Also on the panel? A who's-who of the wealthiest chief executives from some of
the nation's biggest companies, among them: Mary T. Barra of General Motors,
Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase & Company, Laurence D. Fink of BlackRock, Robert
A. Iger of Disney and Virginia M. Rometty of IBM.

The purpose, according to a statement released by Mr. Trump's transition team:
"To provide direct input to the president from many of the best and brightest in
the business world in a frank, nonbureaucratic and nonpartisan manner."

The liberal American Sustainable Business Council was not pleased.

"Trump is doubling down on crony capitalists who don't understand that a healthy
economy requires a healthy planet and consumers with money in their pockets,"
said its co-founder, David Brodwin.

Donald Trump will meet the Donald Trump of Asia.

Mr. Trump, whose unscripted telephone calls with world leaders have broken with
protocol and left diplomats in Washington aghast, on Friday invited President
Rodrigo R. Duterte of the Philippines to visit the White House next year,
according to an aide to Mr. Duterte quoted by Reuters.

Mr. Duterte, who has been criticized by the State Department for waging a bloody
and ruthless antidrug campaign that has killed about 2,000 people in the
Philippines, has called President Obama a "son of a whore" and, in September,
said he "can go to hell." The remarks prompted Mr. Obama to cancel a planned
meeting with Mr. Duterte in Laos at a meeting of the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations.

Mr. Trump has business and government connections in the Philippines, where he
has partnered with a real estate company controlled by Jose E.B. Antonio, named
in October as Mr. Duterte's special envoy to the United States, on a $150
million office tower in Manila.

Officials for Mr. Trump's transition did not confirm the call or include it in a
rundown they gave on Friday of conversations with world leaders that Mr. Trump
and Vice President-elect Mike Pence had held over the past 24 hours.

They did provide official accounts on Thursday of calls Mr. Trump had with the
prime minister of Pakistan and the president of Kazakhstan, but those were
sanitized versions of the readouts provided by those countries, which indicated
that the president-elect had heaped praise on their leaders and suggested a
readiness to side with them on delicate matters of diplomacy.

A look at policies to come.

Senator David Perdue of Georgia, a Republican and an early and vocal supporter
of Mr. Trump, stopped by the microphones at Trump Tower to share his views of
the legislative rush to come next year.

"Job 1 is getting people put back to work - we're talking about Obamacare, the
Keystone Pipeline, the Waters in the U.S. and the Clean Power Plan," he said,
singling out the transcontinental pipeline that President Obama killed, new
clean water regulations and Mr. Obama's climate change plan.

Asked about killing the Iran nuclear deal between the Islamic Republic and the
western powers, he did not hide his feelings.

"It's not a treaty, it's a presidential resolution and it can be reversed," he
said. "This is a very dangerous deal. It provides a pathway for Iran to become a
nuclear power and you just cannot allow that."

Supporters of the deal, including Mr. Obama and the governments of Britain,
Japan, France, Germany and Russia say it will prevent Iran to develop a nuclear
weapon, not facilitate it.

Tall men, unite.

Much has been said about the photo of a windblown president-elect and his tie,
exposed as taped together. Well, a tall man - Brendan Buck, senior aide to House
Speaker Paul D. Ryan - has come to his defense.

I will defend PE Trump putting tape on the back of a tie. For taller gents, the
shorter end isnt long enough to sit in the loop. Deal w/ it. - Brendan Buck
(@BrendanBuck) December 2, 2016

Trump to White House: Thanks, Obama.

The unemployment rate fell to 4.6 percent in November, while payrolls rose by
178,000, the 74th straight month of private sector gains - the longest expansion
by far. Economic growth last quarter hit 3.2 percent.

Mr. Trump's campaign painted the bleakest of portraits of the American economy,
one that never really fit reality. Now, he will be taking office with a big head
of steam thanks at least in part to his predecessor, President Obama.

But some economic analysts greeted the news with a note of caution.

"The president-elect still represents the mother of all uncertainties when it
comes to domestic and foreign policies," wrote Bernard Baumohl, chief global
economist for the Economic Outlook Group.

Not the party of Reagan anymore.

Jaw-dropping quote of the morning, from Vice President-elect Mike Pence to The
New York Times:

"The free market has been sorting it out and America's been losing," Mr. Pence
added, as Mr. Trump interjected, "Every time, every time."

Chris Christie passed over again?

Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey may be pressing his own candidacy to be the
next chairman of the Republican National Committee, but Mr. Trump, who has the
final say, appears to have other ideas.

A person close to Mr. Trump said the president-elect's allies are coalescing
around Nick Ayers, a member of the transition team, to be the party's chairman.
Mercedes Schlapp, another Republican operative, is being considered for a role
as co-chairwoman.

Mr. Christie called Mr. Trump to put his name forward on Thursday morning,
according to Politico. That was already something of a comedown from the
governor's former job leading Mr. Trump's transition team and his aspirations to
become the attorney general.

Now even the party chairmanship, which will change hands when Reince Priebus
becomes Mr. Trump's White House chief of staff, may slip out of Mr. Christie's
reach.

Fast-food chain C.E.O. rises in cabinet talk.

Andrew Puzder, the chief executive of CKE Restaurants and a financial supporter
of Mr. Trump's campaign, has gained steam as a candidate to become the secretary
of labor, according to a transition official who was not authorized to speak
publicly about the process.

Mr. Puzder, whose company oversees restaurant chains such as Hardee's, has been
extremely critical of Obama administration policies, including a push for a
higher minimum wage and new overtime rules for workers who are considered
management, but have few managerial responsibilities.

A change in tone? Not so much.

If presidential watchers were hoping for a more presidential tone in Mr. Trump's
"victory rallies," they didn't see much on Thursday night in Cincinnati.

"We did have a lot of fun fighting Hillary, didn't we?" he asked.

The crowd broke into the familiar chant, "Lock her up!" as the president-elect
smiled and lifted a fist.

Trump: We had "a lot of fun fighting Hillary, didn't we?"Crowd: "Lock her up!
Lock her up!" https://t.co/SvJsIEiHw8https://t.co/b2GIB20HLz - CNN (@CNN)
December 2, 2016

Mr. Trump railed against the "extremely dishonest press" as the crowd chanted
"fake news." And he complained that there wasn't "the highest-caliber politician
in Ohio," a reference to Gov. John Kasich, who never supported Mr. Trump.

Mike Pence's new neighbors fly gay pride flags.

Many across the nation may rally around the new commander in chief and Vice
President-elect Pence, but some in the District of Columbia probably won't.

Pence's new DC neighbors are welcoming him with gay pride
flagshttps://t.co/pzZDtc9osCpic.twitter.com/jeLiwQuMva - The Hill (@thehill)
December 2, 2016

Incidentally ...

Hillary Clinton's lead over Mr. Trump in the popular vote inched up on Thursday
night to 2,564,276 - nearly a flat 2 percentage points. Minnesota and
Massachusetts certified their totals, but votes keep trickling in from
California.

Ventura, CA: 16k new Clinton votes, 8k Trump. Clinton's national popular vote
lead up to 2.55 million (1.9%): https://t.co/j58GaxfPmH - Dave Wasserman
(@Redistrict) December 1, 2016

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             781 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

François Hollande, Buzz Aldrin, Vladimir Putin: Your Friday Briefing;
Europe Edition

BYLINE: PATRICK BOEHLER

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1154 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

François Hollande, the French president, announced he would not seek
re-election.

The prime minister, Manuel Valls, is likely to step up as a leading contender in
the party's primary.

Mr. Hollande's unprecedented decision only slightly improved the chances of the
ruling Socialists in presidential elections in April as far-right and populist
forces gain strength in France and across Europe.

In Italy, the anti-establishment Five Star Movement has campaigned aggressively
against a referendum on constitutional changes on Sunday, turning it into a
virtual plebiscite on Prime Minister Matteo Renzi.

And Austrian voters on Sunday could become the first in Europe since World War
II to elect a far-right head of state.

_____

A remarkably subdued Vladimir V. Putin, the president of Russia, called for
cooperation with the new American administration in his annual state of the
nation address.

But a new foreign policy doctrine signed by Mr. Putin stressed the gravity of
"the serious crisis between Russia and the West" and placed the blame for it on
"geopolitical expansion" by NATO and the European Union.

_____

In the United States, President-elect Donald J. Trump's arrangements to save
jobs in Indiana involved significant government subsidies.

In his first post-election rally, Mr. Trump said James N. Mattis, a former
general who served in the Middle East and is known for his critical stance
toward Iran, will be his nominee for defense secretary.

We mapped out the array of conflicts of interest that Mr. Trump's global
business empire presents.

And the president-elect's freewheeling exchanges with foreign dignitaries
prompted the White House to urge him to seek diplomats' counsel.

_____

Hallucinogens help cancer patients. Psilocybin, an ingredient found in
hallucinogenic mushrooms, can significantly reduce anxiety and depression in the
patients, according to a new study.

The drug, administered via wooden goblet in one study, has been illegal in the
U.S. for more than 40 years.

_____

Business

British ministers said that the country could agree to pay the European Union to
retain access to its single market. Zac Goldsmith, to the left in the photo
above, a key proponent of Britain's departure from the bloc, lost his seat in
Parliament in a by-election.

In Reykjavik, commercial real estate construction is racing to keep up with
demand and is transforming the Icelandic capital.

When a wealthy businessman set out to divorce his wife, their $400 million
fortune vanished. The quest to find it would reveal the depths of an offshore
financial system bigger than the U.S. economy.

The U.S. Labor Department's monthly jobs report today will be scrutinized as the
last indicator of unemployment and wages before the Federal Reserve's likely
increase in interest rates.

Global bond markets are plunging. Here's a snapshot of global markets.

In the News

In Germany, a challenger to Chancellor Angela Merkel has emerged from the ranks
of her party: Jens Spahn, a 36-year-old critic of her refugee policy. [Der
Spiegel]

Greece's war of words with Turkey on territorial claims has deepened before
bilateral talks this weekend. [Ekathimerini]

 Ban Ki-moon, the departing secretary general of the United Nations, apologized
for the organization's role in the cholera outbreak that has claimed 10,000
lives. [The New York Times]

At least 350 people have come forward to report sexual abuse at the hands of
youth soccer coaches in Britain, deepening a scandal that has engulfed English
soccer. [The New York Times]

Israel sent its first ambassador to Turkey in five years, just as the Turkish
high court takes up a case involving the debacle that broke relations: the
lethal Israeli raid on the Mavi Marmara, a ship challenging the Gaza blockade.
[Hürriyet]

There are no laws in the Shuafat Refugee Camp, where 80,000 people live
surrounded by a 25-foot concrete wall, despite it being inside the city of
Jerusalem. [The New York Times]

Scotland plans to raise the age of criminal responsibility to 12, from 8,
currently the lowest in Europe. [The Scotsman]

Noteworthy

Mid-20th century Paris, the harrowing escape of an American slave and a
seemingly ordinary Korean housewife turning vegetarian after a terrifying dream:
These are The New York Times Book Review's 10 Best Books of 2016.

In memoriam: The actor Andrew Sachs, who played Manuel in the British comedy
series "Fawlty Towers," died at 86.

Buzz Aldrin, the 86-year-old adventurer and former astronaut who was the second
person to walk on the moon, was evacuated from Antarctica after he became ill
while visiting the South Pole with a tourism group.

Isabelle Huppert, the French actress, chooses roles that are sometimes hard to
watch. And yet we can't bring ourselves to look away.

Recipients of a new British scholarship will spend time in Buckingham Palace,
but don't get the wrong idea: They will cook, cater and otherwise serve the
British royals.

A 34-year-old Alaskan environmentalist with no formal design education is
challenging a fashion world dogma: Is all fur bad fur

Zinedine Zidane may not be the perfect soccer club manager, but he could well be
perfect for Real Madrid.

And "Snow Beach," a new book, chronicles the style of snowboarding culture in
the 1980s and 90s.

Back Story

Artists, art collectors, curators and the scenesters who surround them are in
Miami this week for Art Basel Miami Beach. It's a spinoff of the fair held in
Switzerland. (There's also a Hong Kong version).

Despite the party atmosphere, the art world may intimidate the uninitiated -
especially with its terminology - so we're here to offer some help.

Showcasing "the masters of Modern and contemporary art" is Art Basel's stated
aim. Those categories may sound redundant, but they're not.

While "modern" can indicate the present, it is also tied to ideas that "were new
or even experimental" when they were developed, according to the Museum of
Modern Art. Contemporary means work by living artists.

Just don't confuse "master" with "Old Master," which is a "distinguished
European artist from about 1500 to the early 1700s." Think Michelangelo.

At a gallery, you might enter a room with related sculptures. This isn't an
installation unless it encourages "active engagement" by the spectator.

And if you're thinking of calling something "sublime," you're saying the piece
is "worthy of reverence," according to MoMA.

One last tip: Remember, the artists and the dealers are also nervous about how
you'll react.

"What depresses me the most is if people walk past the booth and don't stop," a
dealer told The Times this summer. "I want people to come in and then have a
journey."

Christopher Shea contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of
the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             782 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

President Obama Is Handing a Strong Economy to His Successor

BYLINE: PATRICIA COHEN

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1141 words



HIGHLIGHT: Employers in the United States added 178,000 workers last month,
while the unemployment rate dropped to its lowest level in more than nine years.



Departing occupants of the White House rarely hand off an improving economy to a
successor from the opposing party.

When Barack Obama was waiting in the wings after the 2008 presidential election,
for example, the economy was in a severe downward spiral: Employers reported
cutting 533,000 jobs that November, the biggest monthly loss in a generation.

But according to the government's report on Friday, Donald J. Trump can expect
to inherit an economy that has added private sector jobs for 80 months, put
another 178,000 people on payrolls last month and pushed the unemployment rate
down to 4.6 percent today from 4.9 percent the previous month. Wage growth,
though slower, is still running ahead of inflation, and consumers are expressing
the highest levels of confidence in nearly a decade.

The Federal Reserve is confident enough about the economy's underlying strength
that it is now set to raise the benchmark interest rate when it meets later this
month.

The jobless rate for November, the lowest since August 2007, "is a testimony to
how strong employment growth has been," said Jim O'Sullivan, chief United States
economist at High Frequency Economics.

Jason Furman, now chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers,
remembers the transition eight years ago, when he was crammed into his office
with a circle of key officials as the latest jobs numbers from the Labor
Department landed.

"It was an utterly terrifying time, the likes of which none of us had ever seen
in our lifetimes," Mr. Furman recalled. Fearing that "the economy was following
the same trajectory that it did at the beginning of the Great Depression,"
everyone was focused on how to "rapidly slow the bleeding and figure out how to
get the economy growing again."

By contrast, Mr. Furman said, "the economy today is healthy and it's improving."

For all the improvements, tens of millions of Americans understandably feel that
the recovery has passed them by. Those without skills are relegated to
low-paying positions without steady schedules, security and benefits.
Breadwinners who once held well-compensated manufacturing jobs are angry about
being forced to settle for lower-wage service jobs - or no jobs at all.

Profound anxiety, particularly among the white working class, about the ability
to reach or comfortably remain in the middle class is one of the factors that
helped propel Mr. Trump to the White House.

Pockets of weakness also surfaced in the latest jobs report, which showed that
more people dropped out of the labor force last month than joined it.
Manufacturing jobs declined further, and there are still plenty of part-time
workers who would rather be full time. And while the official jobless rate for
high school graduates fell to 4.9 percent, it is more than twice the rate for
college graduates.

"There is a bifurcation of the work force," Jonas Prising, chairman and chief
executive of the ManpowerGroup, one of the largest recruiters in the United
States. People who are able to take advantage of advances in technology,
globalization and other shifts that favor those with the right skills for the
nation's advanced services are thriving.

For others, the prospects do not look good. "There used to be part of the work
force that had well-paying jobs that were low or unskilled," Mr. Prising said.
"Those kinds of jobs are very difficult to find today."

The deal that Mr. Trump made with the heating and cooling company Carrier this
week to keep 1,000 manufacturing jobs from moving to Mexico from Indiana is
emblematic of the kind of actions he said he would take as president to help
blue-collar workers.

But there are limits to the power of persuasion.

Betsey Stevenson, an economist at the University of Michigan and a former
economic adviser to Mr. Obama, said that manufacturing, while still a driving
force in the economy, employed fewer and fewer people. More than 80 percent of
jobs are now in the service industry, Ms. Stevenson said, and Mr. Trump should
be thinking more about how to match workers with those jobs.

"The economy is in a great place, and his biggest challenge is continuing that,"
she said.

Some economists worry that the Federal Reserve is too focused on fears of future
inflation and that it should hold off on any increase in rates until conditions
have improved further. "There's no reason to pre-emptively slow the economy
down, given that we're starting from less than full employment," said Elise
Gould, an economist at the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute in Washington.
"Right now, the priority should be keeping the economy on track and moving it
forward."

Such pleas are unlikely to win the day. At last month's meeting of the Federal
Reserve, members concluded that the case for an increase in the benchmark rate
had been "strengthened," and that they would be ready to move "so long as
incoming data provided some further evidence of continued progress."

Many employers are having a harder time finding and retaining workers.

"Recruiting is a tough issue right now in skilled and semiskilled industries,"
said Robert A. Funk, chairman and chief executive of Express Employment
Professionals, a staffing agency based in Oklahoma City. He mentioned a
particular need for workers in accounting, information technology, call centers,
warehousing and office and professional services.

Mr. Funk said employers often complained about being unable to find employees
with a strong work ethic who met the minimum requirements. "Drug screening is a
real challenge in many parts of the country," he said. "Only 30 percent can pass
a drug screen in the state of Washington," where marijuana is legal.

At the same time, employers have been reluctant to raise wages to a level that
might lure back sidelined workers. The result has been that the country has
5.5million job openings, a near-record level, but still relatively anemic labor
force participation rates.

"The challenge out there now is finding workers and keeping the workers you
have," said Steve Rick, chief economist at CUNA Mutual Group. Those shortages,
whatever the cause, are likely to push wages higher next year, he said.

"People are feeling good not only about their current income but their future
income," Mr. Rick said.

Whatever the economy's current failings, Mark J. Rozell, a political scientist
at George Mason University in Virginia, said it was nonetheless better than the
ones most incoming presidents have faced in the last half-century.

"Trump can be thankful that his predecessor is handing him a fairly strong
situation," Mr. Rozell said, "especially when compared to many past party
transfers of power."

Follow Patricia Cohen on Twitter: @PatcohenNYT

Related Articles


     ·    Last Economic Snapshot Before the Election Shows Healthy Job Growth
     ·    How Economic Data Is Kept Politics-Free
     ·    Fed Signals It's on Track to Raise Interest Rates in December


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             783 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

James Mattis, François Hollande, Art Basel: Your Friday Briefing

BYLINE: SEAN ALFANO

SECTION: BRIEFING

LENGTH: 1058 words



HIGHLIGHT: Here's what you need to know to start your day.


 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here's what you need to know:

Trump picks a secretary of defense.

President-elect Donald J. Trump's selection of James N. Mattis to lead the
Defense Department is likely to be a major topic of discussion today. Mr. Trump
broke the news at his victory tour rally in Ohio on Thursday night.

Mr. Mattis, a retired general who led a Marine division to Baghdad during the
2003 invasion of Iraq, is wary of Iran but is not in favor of tearing up the
nuclear deal with that country. He's an avid reader of military history and has
often been referred to as a "warrior monk."

"I love this stuff."

That's what Mr. Trump told the crowd in Cincinnati as he reveled in their
cheers. Our latest 360 video gives you a seat inside the arena.

His speech repeated pledges to repeal the Affordable Care Act and to lower
taxes. He also used his address to bash the "extremely dishonest press."

Faulting the news media's election coverage was about the only thing aides from
the campaign teams of Mr. Trump and Hillary Clinton could agree on during a
contentious panel discussion on Thursday.

Changes in Europe

François Hollande, the French president whose approval ratings have been as low
as 4 percent, will not seek re-election. His decision is thought to improve the
chances of the governing Socialists in presidential elections in the spring,
although the center-right and far-right candidates are leading in the polls.

In his annual state of the nation address, President Vladimir V. Putinof Russia
called for cooperation with the next American administration. A new foreign
policy doctrine that Mr. Putin signed on Thursday, though, emphasizes "the
serious crisis between Russia and the West."

New abortion regulations in Texas.

The state will require abortion providers to pay for the cremation or burial of
fetal remains, rather than dispose of them as biological medical waste, a new
obstacle that could make it more difficult for facilities to stay in business.

Arkansas, Indiana and Louisiana have called for similar rules.

South Carolina police-shooting trial.

A jury will resume deliberations today in the case of a white police officer,
Michael T. Slager, who is charged with murder in the fatal shooting of Walter L.
Scott, a black man who fled after a traffic stop.

To avoid a mistrial, jurors have three options: a conviction for murder or
voluntary manslaughter, or an acquittal.

Business

The U.S. economy added 178,000 jobs in November, the Labor Department reported
today.

The gains clear the way for the Federal Reserve to raise the benchmark interest
rate when it meets later this month. The unemployment rate fell to 4.6 percent.

Howard Schultz will step down next year as chief executive of Starbucks, the
world's largest coffee business.

The move by Mr. Schultz, who has ties to President Obama and Hillary Clinton, is
likely to renew speculation about whether he will enter politics.

In memoriam: Jim Delligatti, 98, the inventor of the Big Mac.

Mr. Delligatti, an owner of McDonald's franchises in Western Pennsylvania, once
remarked that the wildly popular burger didn't lead to fame and fortune for him.
"All I got was a plaque," he said.

U.S. stocks were down on Thursday. Here's a snapshot of global markets.

Noteworthy

New at the movies.

"Jackie," starring Natalie Portman as Jacqueline Kennedy, is set largely after
the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. The film depicts a "woman who's
more complex than history can make her seem," our critic writes.

The documentary "Two Trains Runnin'" explores the convergence of music with the
civil rights movement in Mississippi through the lens of a historical
coincidence involving the blues legends Skip James and Son House.

Top reads.

Last week, we told you about 100 Notable Books of 2016, as selected by our
editors. Now, they choose their 10 Best Books of the year.

Only in New York, or under a rainbow.

The police are searching for a man who they say stole a bucket of gold flakes
off the back of an armored truck in broad daylight. The haul weighed 86 pounds
and officers said it was worth $1.6 million.

How to feed a runner.

We're nearing the time of year when people make New Year's resolutions. If
you're considering running a marathon or some other long-distance race, here is
advice on adjusting your diet.

One tip: Running on an empty stomach forces your body to use fat as fuel and can
help fight weight gain.

Recipe of the day.

Try this spicy curry, which stars vegetables like butternut squash and
cauliflower. For dessert, experiment with salt-baked pears.

Back Story

Artists, art collectors, curators, and the scenesters who surround them are in
Miami this week for Art Basel Miami Beach. It's a spinoff of the fair held in
Switzerland (there's also a Hong Kong version).

Despite the show's party atmosphere, the art world may intimidate the
uninitiated - especially with its terminology - so we're here to offer some
help.

Showcasing "the masters of Modern and contemporary art" is Art Basel's stated
aim. Those categories may sound redundant, but they're not.

While "modern" can indicate the present, it is also tied to ideas that "were new
or even experimental" when they were developed, according to the Museum of
Modern Art. Contemporary means work by living artists.

Just don't confuse "master" with "Old Master," which is a "distinguished
European artist from about 1500 to the early 1700s." Think Michelangelo.

At a gallery, you might enter a room with related sculptures. This isn't an
installation unless it encourages "active engagement" by the spectator.

And if you're thinking of calling something "sublime," you're saying the piece
is "worthy of reverence," according to MoMA.

One last tip: Remember, the artists and the dealers are also nervous about how
you'll react.

"What depresses me the most is if people walk past the booth and don't stop," a
dealer told The Times this summer. "I want people to come in and then have a
journey."

Christopher D. Shea contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of
the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the
web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: briefing

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             784 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Really, You're Blaming Transgender People for Trump?;
Contributing Op-Ed Writer

BYLINE: JENNIFER FINNEY BOYLAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1052 words



HIGHLIGHT: Don't call my rights a luxury that Democrats can't afford to defend.


It was the morning after the election. The bottle of Champagne I'd opened as
part of an anticipated victory celebration still sat on the coffee table, only
one-third finished, the unconsumed flat remainder marking the exact moment that
my future, as a transgender American, became uncertain.

I wanted to hear Hillary Clinton's concession speech, but she was late to the
podium. On TV, a commentator speculated that Mrs. Clinton had lost because of
her party's focus on things like trans rights - "boutique issues," they were
called.

A boutique - a place where you'd shop for, say, artisan pantyhose - is not the
first place I'd associate with an individual's quest for equal protection under
the law, but then what did I know? I was now one of the people from whom the
country had been "taken back."

The phrase echoed unpleasantly in my mind. A boutique issue? Is this what my
fellow Americans had thought of my fight for dignity all along?

It wasn't the first time I'd heard it. This summer, Bill Maher cautioned that
"there's no room for boutique issues in an Armageddon election." He volunteered
to put his own pet cause - "legalized weed" - to one side if it would help the
party win Ohio. "And you know me, I have seeds in my urine." Apparently
providing a person like me with health care and protecting me from violence and
discrimination in the workplace were on the same order of magnitude as the right
to roll a doober.

Nov. 8 is over, and legalized pot did very well, thank you. The future of
L.G.B.T. rights is more tenuous.

This is not only because Donald J. Trump's administration is filling up with
people who oppose L.G.B.T. equality. It's because the Democrats may now dismiss
our urgent needs as unaffordable luxuries, and back off the fight. As a local
Democratic official in Ohio put it in a memo to the Clinton campaign: "Look, I'm
as progressive as anybody, O.K.? But people in the heartland thought the
Democratic Party cared more about where someone else went to the restroom than
whether they had a good-paying job."

I was present in 2014 when President Obama signed an executive order expanding a
ban on L.G.B.T. discrimination in the workplace, so close to the president that
I could have thrown glitter into his graying hair if I'd taken the notion. It
was one of the proudest moments of my life.

That order could be one of the first things to go in January when President
Trump "erases the Obama presidency" on Day 1 of his administration (in the words
of Stephen Moore, a Trump adviser and Heritage Foundation fellow). Other issues
on the chopping block could include the lifting of the ban on transgender
military service and the Justice Department's backing of trans students under
Title IX.

Mr. Trump has occasionally expressed support for L.G.B.T. issues, although, as
usual, it's impossible to know his core values. He has opposed a constitutional
amendment banning marriage equality. And yet he's also pledged to appoint a
Supreme Court justice who would overturn the Supreme Court's ruling that
legalized same-sex marriage.

If his intentions are unclear, those of the people around him are anything but.
Mike Pence, his vice president-elect, is one of the most extreme opponents of
gay, lesbian and transgender people in the nation. In Indiana, he signed a bill
to jail same-sex couples applying for a marriage license. He wanted to divert
funding from H.I.V. programs to conversion therapy. He opposed the repeal of
"don't ask, don't tell."

On the state level, L.G.B.T. people face even greater losses. One advocacy group
puts the number of anti-L.G.B.T. bills waiting to be introduced nationwide next
year at more than 200. Texas is likely to lead the way. Its Senate Bill 242
would punish teachers who keep students' sexual identities private from their
parents - in effect forcing them to out the students. Senate Bill 92 would void
local anti-discrimination ordinances. And the so-called Women's Privacy Act,
like House Bill 2 in North Carolina, would force transgender people to use the
bathroom of the gender on their birth certificate, regardless of their anatomy,
appearance or identification.

Across the country, L.G.B.T. activists fear the advance of other laws pushing
back against the progress that's been made over the last eight years. Some will
come in the form of First Amendment Defense Acts. These would legalize
anti-L.G.B.T. discriminatory actions by employers, health care providers,
landlords and other businesses - as long as these are motivated by religious
belief.

Who will fight against these laws, if Democrats give up on their commitment to
justice? Colin Jost, on "Saturday Night Live," made light of this when he noted
the new Tinder feature giving users 37 different gender options. He said, "It's
called 'Why Democrats Lost the Election.' "

I don't deny that a generalized fear of "political correctness" contributed to
the resentment of some Trump voters. But Mrs. Clinton hardly campaigned as an
L.G.B.T. firebrand. In fact, there's really only one race in which L.G.B.T.
rights played a major role - the governorship of North Carolina, where the
Republican incumbent, Pat McCrory, rammed House Bill 2 through his Legislature
last spring.

A recount is underway, but Mr. McCrory is for now at least 10,000 votes short of
re-election. His relentless campaign against L.G.B.T. people led to an economic
backlash from corporate America and - perhaps of greater offense to the people
of North Carolina - from the N.C.A.A., which moved championship basketball games
out of the state. If he hadn't taken the issue on, he would most likely be on
the threshold of his second term.

When Mr. Obama signed that executive order in 2014, he said, "We've got an
obligation to make sure that the country we love remains a place where no matter
who you are, or what you look like, or where you come from, or how you started
out, or what your last name is, or who you love - no matter what, you can make
it in this country."

This is not a boutique truth, but an American truth.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.

Jennifer Finney Boylan, a contributing opinion writer, is a professor of English
at Barnard College and a board co-chairwoman of Glaad.

DRAWING (DRAWING BY WESLEY ALLSBROOK)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             785 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                       December 2, 2016 Friday 00:00 EST

Want to Check Out Canada? Hotels and Resorts Are Ready;
Update

BYLINE: SHIVANI VORA

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 771 words



HIGHLIGHT: Searches for travel to Canada increased dramatically after the
American election. Here are trips and packages designed to show off the country.



For some United States residents, Canada is an increasingly attractive vacation
destination and, possibly, a country to live in.

Do Americans really want to move to Canada? It certainly looks that way, at
least since the United States presidential election.

Canada's immigration site crashed on election night, and statistics from the
airfare predictor app Hopper show that between midnight and 1 a.m. Eastern on
Nov. 9, the time period when the news media reported that President-elect Donald
J. Trump had taken the lead in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, there was a
210 percent spike in searches for one-way flights to Canada among eight United
States and Canadian airlines, including Delta, American Airlines and Porter
Airlines.

And, according to data from the travel search engine Kayak, there was a 13
percent increase in flight searches from the United States to Canada for three
days after the election, compared with the same period the previous week.

Whether the immediate postelection effect of Canada's appeal as a permanent home
is here to stay remains to be seen.

But heading there for a getaway is more of an established trend: From January
through August of this year, the number of visitors from the United States to
Canada increased 9.4 percent, to 9.8 million people, compared with the same
period last year, according to Destination Canada, Canada's national tourism
marketing organization. Also, Kayak saw a 15 percent increase in flight searches
from the United States to Canada between Jan. 1 and Nov. 22 this year compared
with the same time frame in 2015.

The surge, said Adam Weissenberg, the head of travel, hospitality and leisure at
Deloitte & Touche, is likely caused by the strength of the United States dollar
against the Canadian dollar. "Canada is a bargain for Americans to visit right
now and is the best deal it has been in a while," he said.

Numbers from the New York City-based economic research firm Oxford Economics
show that this value proposition is true: the United States dollar appreciated
around 25 percent against the Canadian dollar from the second quarter of 2013 to
the second quarter of 2016 (the latest exchange rate is around 1 United States
dollar to around 1.35 Canadian dollars).

Here are five trips that may inspire you to vacation in Canada:

Fairmont Jasper Park Lodge in Alberta is offering the Jasper Family Ski
Experience over the winter. Included are accommodations, transportation to and
from the ski hill and ski lift tickets for two adults and one child. Prices from
469 Canadian dollars a night for a two-night minimum.

The Delta Grand Okanagan Resort, in the heart of British Columbia's Okanagan
wine region, has a "Ski Canada's Champagne Powder" package. Included are
accommodations for two nights, two ski passes for Big White Ski Resort, located
an hour away, return transportation from the ski resort and a wine tasting for
two. Available until March 31. Prices from 515 Canadian dollars.

The Ritz-Carlton, Montreal has a Colder the Better package. Guests who book a
suite in the downtown hotel save 1 percent off their room rate for every degree
the temperature falls below zero Celsius (32 Fahrenheit). If the temperature is
minus 15 Celsius, for example, the discount is 15 percent (the city's late
winter and early spring temperatures usually hover at around minus 10 Celsius).
Included are a suite with a fireplace, a welcome amenity of cookies, tea and hot
chocolate, breakfast, parking and a late checkout. Prices from 800 Canadian
dollars a night.

Josh Alexander, from the travel consultancy ProTravel, has created the
four-night Ontario Mini-Break that explores the region's highlights. In Toronto,
guests stay at the Shangri-La Toronto and take a private tour of the city's
haunted site; in Stratford, they go canoeing down the Avon River; in
Niagara-on-the-Lake, they visit a local winery; and in Niagara Falls, they take
a behind-the-scenes tour of the namesake falls. Prices from $1,500 for two. For
more information, email josh.alexander@protravelinc.com.

On a guided trip with adventure travel company Ukaliq Wilderness Adventures,
explore the Tobeatic Wilderness Area in Nova Scotia renowned for its varied
geography of barren landscapes, interconnected lakes and pine forests. Guests
take hikes and canoe trips in the summer, snowshoe in the winter and stay
overnight in a tent. A three-day trip for two people starts at 1,150 Canadian
dollars and includes transportation from Halifax to the Tobeatic Wilderness
Area, tents, canoeing equipment and all meals and snacks.

PHOTO: A visit to the Tobeatic Wilderness Area includes canoe trips and hiking.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             786 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Did presidential choices depress voter participation?

BYLINE: BRIAN COOPER Telegraph Herald executive editor

SECTION: A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1057 words


Here's a little post-election quiz for you.

Which race on the Dubuque County 2016 ballot attracted the greatest voter
participation?

" U.S. president (

Donald Trump,

Hillary Clinton et al)

" U.S. Senate (

Chuck Grassley vs.

Patty Judge)

" U.S. House 1st District (

Rod Blum vs.

Monica Vernon)

In Dubuque County, which presidential election had the highest percentage of
voter participation?

" 2008 (

Barack Obama vs.

John McCain)

" 2012 (Obama vs.

Mitt Romney)

" 2016 (Trump vs. Clinton)

A review of the local election results, which were made official last week,
chipped at the notion that voters would be so dissatisfied and uninspired by
their presidential choices that they would skip that place on the ballot but
weigh in on other races.

More Dubuque County voters entered a choice for president in 2016 than they did
senator or congressman. Some 94 percent of them selected either Trump or Clinton
rather than one of the several "third-party" candidates (among which Libertarian

Gary Johnson led the pack by a wide margin).

Now, the numbers suggest that

some voters were so disenchanted by the presidential race that they stayed home
entirely.

Of the past three presidential elections, the highest turnout in Dubuque County
occurred in 2012 (74 percent), compared to 73 percent in Barack Obama's historic
election of 2008 and then this year (70 percent).

Straight-party voting - a one-stop shop for partisans - might not be as popular
as it once was, but it was still invoked by nearly one-third of Dubuque County
voters (31.9 percent).

The GOP straight-party vote jumped a whopping 44 percent in 2016 compared to
2008. Democrats suffered a 14 percent drop in the same period, but still had
more straight-party votes overall than the GOP by a 56-44 percent margin.

The surge of the GOP in Dubuque County, and Trump's local popularity, is
noteworthy. Trump carried Dubuque County - a first for a Republican in 60 years.
Compare that to eight years ago, when Obama beat McCain by a 60-40 margin.

Trump won here even though only 22.6 percent of voters were declared
Republicans. (Declared Democrats represented 43.6 percent of voters while 33.1
percent were not affiliated with any party.

As a result of all this, "absolutely: expect to see more Republican candidates
on Dubuque County ballots in 2018 and beyond," said Jennifer Smith, county GOP
chair.

Smith said that with Democrats holding so many local and legislative offices for
so long, would-be candidates opted to not put their GOP hats in the ring. That
is changing.

Smith said recruitment efforts for GOP candidates will begin in early 2017.

"People are looking for a change," she said.

PANEL TO REVIEW THE 2016 CYCLE

What just happened?

The Iowa Department of Cultural Affairs on Monday, Nov. 21, will host a panel
discussion and question-and-answer session in Des Moines featuring political
experts to talk about the 2016 cycle, from the Iowa caucuses through Election
Day.

Panelists include

David Yepsen, former director of the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute and
longtime political columnist for The Des Moines Register; pollster

Ann Selzer;

Kathie Obradovich, Register political columnist;

Craig Robinson, founding editor of The Iowa Republican; Democratic consultant

Jeff Link; and

Dave Nagle, former Northeast Iowa congressman and chair of the Iowa Democratic
Party's task force reviewing the 2016 caucuses.

The free, public event at the State Historical Building, 600 E. Locust St. in
Des Moines, begins with a social half-hour at 5 p.m. The 75-minute program
begins at 5:45.

DEMOCRATS STILL TAKING SHOTS AT BLUM

One of the Democrats' prime targets for ouster this cycle, Blum, the Republican
congressman from Dubuque, who was consistently topping observers' lists of "most
vulnerable" House incumbents, wound up winning re-election by 8 percentage
points.

Though they lost in Iowa's 1st District, Democrats aren't going away quietly.

"While the election may be over, it should not be forgotten that Rod Blum
enthusiastically doubled down on his support for Donald Trump while also cozying
up to Speaker

Paul Ryan in the final weeks of the campaign,"

Tyler Law, spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, stated
in a news release issued a week after the election. "This might have temporarily
helped him win re-election, but it will certainly damage his standing in the
future as he is forced to defend the destructive Trump-Ryan agenda."

WANT TO ATTEND

THE INAUGURATION?

Every federal lawmaker expects to receive an allocation of tickets for Donald
Trump's presidential inauguration on Jan. 20. Here are their plans for ticket
distribution to constituents:

Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, plans to use a lottery system. Enter online
(tinyurl.com/zysljzz) by Jan. 1. Grassley said staffers of the Iowa delegation
will cross-check names of ticket recipients to avoid duplication.

Sen.

Joni Ernst, R-Iowa, will issue tickets on a first-come, first-served basis to
Iowans. Apply at tinyurl.com/jezcxl7. Deadline is Jan. 1.

U.S. Rep. Rod Blum, R-Iowa, will issue tickets to 1st District residents on a
first-come, first-served basis. Apply by phoning 202-225-2911 or emailing
Kirby.richard@mail.house.gov

U.S. Rep.

Ron Kind, D-Wis., will issue tickets on a first-come, first-served basis.
Constituents should call 888-442-8040 and provide name, address and number of
tickets desired.

NOTES

" U.S. Sen.

Dick Durbin, of Illinois, has been re-elected Democratic whip by his fellow
Senate Democrats. He has held the No. 2 role in the caucus since 2005.

" Two years ago, Rod Blum's first-ever vote in the U.S. House was against the
re-election of fellow Republican Speaker

John Boehner, who later gave up the post. This time, Speaker Paul Ryan received
unanimous GOP support to keep the position. "I am looking forward to working
with Speaker Ryan and President Trump to reignite our economy, secure our
borders, and to reform Congress itself," Blum told the TH in a statement.
"Americans sent a strong message this election that they are tired of career
politicians and business as usual in Washington."

" U.S. Sen.

Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., received an AARP Champion for the 50+ Legislative
Leadership Award. The seniors organization said the award was for her work
supporting and improving the lives of family caregivers with the bipartisan
RAISE Family Caregivers Act (S.1719).

Cooper has been TH executive editor since 1986.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             787 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Facebook CEO talks 'connectivity' at summit

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 357 words


LIMA, Peru - Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg urged world leaders meeting in Peru on
Saturday to help get more people online as a way to improve global living
standards while separately announcing new measures to cut down on fake news
stories on the social network that some suggest could have helped sway the U.S.
presidential election.

The Facebook founder took on the role of an evangelist for "connectivity" as he
spoke at an Asian-Pacific trade summit, lamenting that half the world has no
access to the online world and is being deprived of its economic potential as
well as advances in science, education and medicine. He urged leaders to work
with his company and others to close that gap.

"If we can connect the 4 billion people who aren't connected, we can lift
hundreds of millions of people out of poverty," Zuckerberg said as he addressed
business and government leaders at the 21-nation Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation Forum.

But as he was promoting the benefits of the online world in the speech, he took
to his Facebook page to address one of the downsides of the internet: the rapid
dissemination of bogus news stories on social networks.

Zuckerberg said in a post that his company was taking measures to curb what he
said was a "relatively small" percentage of deliberately false stories. The
measures include developing new tools to detect and classify "misinformation"
and to make it easier for users to report the material.

He said the company also is looking into the possibility of working with
established fact-checking organizations to evaluate content and into the
feasibility of warning labels for stories flagged as false.

Critics have complained that a surge of fake news stories on Facebook may have
swayed some voters to back President-elect Donald Trump. The company said on
Monday that it was clarifying its advertising policy to emphasize that it won't
display ads - thus cutting revenue - for sites that run information that is
"illegal, misleading or deceptive, which includes fake news."

That followed a similar step by Google.

"The bottom line is: we take misinformation seriously," the Facebook CEO said in
his post.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             788 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Pope decries 'virus'of polarization in world over race, faith

BYLINE: FRANCES D'EMILIO The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 373 words


VATICAN CITY - Pope Francis warned against what he called a "virus of
polarization" and hostility in the world targeting people with different
nationalities, races or beliefs, as he led a ceremony Saturday giving the Roman
Catholic Church 17 new cardinals from six continents.

The consistory ceremony in St. Peter's Basilica formally inducted the churchmen
into the cardinals' ranks.

Francis used his homily to caution the new "princes of the church," as cardinals
are sometimes called, to guard against animosity creeping into the church as
well, saying "we are not immune from this."

The pope spoke of "our pitiful hearts that tend to judge, divide, oppose and
condemn" and cautioned somberly against those who "raise walls, build barriers
and label people."

Earlier this year, when asked about the plan by Donald Trump, then a Republican
U.S. presidential candidate and now president-elect, to build a wall to keep
Mexicans from entering the U.S., the pope replied that anyone advocating
building walls isn't a Christian.

In Saturday's homily, Francis commented how "we see, for example, how quickly
those among us with the status of the stranger, an immigrant, or a refugee,
become a threat, take on the status of an enemy. An enemy because they come from
a distant country, or have different customs."

He added: "The virus of polarization and animosity permeates our way of
thinking, feeling and acting," the pope said.

Cardinals serve as papal advisers and someday elect popes' successors. Popes
look to cardinals who share their approach to the church's mission in the world.

Indianapolis Archbishop Joseph Tobin is among the newly made cardinals. Tobin
defied the governor of the U.S. state of Indiana, Mike Pence, by welcoming
Syrian refugees. Tobin in January will become archbishop of Newark, N.J., while
Pence will be installed as U.S. vice president.

Chicago Archbishop Blase Cupich, after being made a cardinal at Saturday's
ceremony, said the church has a special role in trying to bring people together
across the political spectrum. He noted that on Sunday, Masses are celebrated in
26 languages in his diocese.

"People feel disenfranchised" from sharing in the common good, the cardinal said
in an interview with The Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             789 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Trump election connects with Truman

BYLINE: BRUCE KAUFFMANN For the Telegraph Herald

SECTION: C; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 489 words


Good or bad, however you feel about the election of Donald Trump, it is nothing
new in history.

Indeed, despite claims that Trump's election is the biggest upset ever, Harry
Truman's election in 1948 was a far bigger upset. Truman was such an underdog
that pollsters stopped polling weeks before the election, convinced that the
Republican Thomas Dewey would defeat the Democrat Truman in a landslide.

The pro-Dewey Chicago Daily Tribune even published its election issue with the
headline Dewey Defeats Truman before the returns were in (and the next day the
easily re-elected Truman gleefully displayed that issue for all to see).

That said, the Trump-Truman comparison is instructive because both men were
controversial, and to those worried that Trump will exceed his presidential
powers, Truman often exceeded his. On several occasions he took control of
entire industries, including settling a nationwide steelworkers strike by
unilaterally seizing the nation's steel mills. In the 1946 mid-term elections,
the Democratic Party lost both branches of Congress, for which the unpopular
Truman was largely blamed.

Granted, on balance Truman was a first-rate president, but that didn't stop
millions of Americans from seeing his election in 1948 as the ruination of the
country, just as today millions think the same of Trump.

The Founding Fathers anticipated all of this. In the Federalist Papers written
to explain the Constitution, James Madison wrote that presidential candidates
would not always be "enlightened statesmen," which is why the Founders created a
government in which the power of each branch of the government, including the
executive branch, would be checked and balanced by the power of the other
branches.

Further, there is the ultimate sovereign power of the people themselves, who
ultimately decide who will serve in our government. In 1946, the people gave
Republicans a majority in the legislative branch partly because they disapproved
of the policies of the Democrat who headed up the executive branch.

In two midterm elections, 2010 and 2014, they did the same to President Obama.
If Donald Trump pursues unpopular policies unchecked by his Republican Congress,
he, and the Republican Congress, also will face the voters' displeasure.

As well as face the displeasure of the judicial branch, which the Founders
specifically created to check unconstitutional violations of the people's rights
by the legislative and executive branches. The Supreme Court eventually ruled
that Truman's nationalizing the steel mills was an unconstitutional overreach,
and they will keep a watchful eye on Trump as well.

"If angels were to govern men, neither external nor internal controls on
government would be necessary," Madison wrote. But since we are governed by
imperfect humans, including all of our presidents, such controls are in place.

Email Kauffmann at bruce@historylessons.net or follow him on Twitter
@BruceKauffmann .

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             790 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Pence, who touts openness, tries to stop document release

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 377 words


INDIANAPOLIS - Lawyers for Indiana Governor and Republican Vice President-elect
Mike Pence argued in court Monday that the state's judicial branch has no
authority to require him to comply with Indiana's public records law.

The civil case before Indiana's Court of Appeals was brought by Indianapolis
attorney William Groth, who sued in 2015 after the Pence administration denied a
request for un-redacted records, including a document related to Republican
efforts to stop President Barack Obama's immigration executive order.

Pence has long presented himself as a champion of a free press and the First
Amendment. That's a contrast to President-elect Donald Trump who made attacks on
reporters a hallmark of his campaign and refused to release his tax records as
other modern presidential candidates have done.

In March, Pence vetoed a bill that would have exempted private universities from
releasing some police records, calling it "a disservice to the public and an
unnecessary barrier to transparency." And on the campaign trail he aggressively
criticized Democrat Hillary Clinton for refusing to release emails sent from a
private server she maintained while secretary of state.

But his gubernatorial administration has argued against the public release of
emails and other documents that could shed light on his tenure as governor. In
some cases, his office has withheld documents, delayed responses or flatly
denied public records requests filed by The Associated Press and other news
organizations.

On Monday, Pence attorney Joseph Chapelle told the judges that the separation of
powers established under the state's constitution should prevent the court
system from forcing Pence and his immediate staff to comply with the open
records law if they are sued.

"Inquiry into the personal papers of the governor would (interfere) with the
affairs of the governor's office," Chapelle said. "He's different than other
state agencies."

The appellate court took up the case after a lower court ruled that Pence did
not have to turn over emails, billing invoices or a document authored by the
chief-of-staff to now-Texas Gov. Greg Abbott. The documents, sought by Groth,
outlined legal arguments for the GOP's successful challenge to Obama's
immigration executive order.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             791 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Vilsack: Dems need better message for rural America

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 309 words


WASHINGTON - No one listened to Tom Vilsack.

As agriculture secretary during the entire Obama administration, the former Iowa
governor has for years been telling anyone who will pay attention - farmers,
members of Congress, even Hillary Clinton - that Democrats need a better message
for rural America. And he's spent most of his tenure focusing on rural
development, trying to revitalize areas that ultimately voted for Republican
Donald Trump in this year's presidential election.

"The Democratic Party, in my opinion, has not made as much of an effort as it
ought to to speak to rural voters," Vilsack said Tuesday in an interview with
The Associated Press. "What's frustrating to me is that we actually have
something we can say to them, and we have chosen, for whatever reason, not to
say it."

Vilsack is a longtime friend of Bill and Hillary Clinton and was close to
becoming Hillary Clinton's vice presidential running mate. She chose Virginia
Sen. Tim Kaine instead. Clinton ultimately won Virginia but lost, deeply, in
many rural areas of the country.

He says he understands why party leaders chose a different path to try for
electoral victory, focusing on expanding populations like Hispanics and
African-Americans who had come out in large numbers to vote for Barack Obama,
the nation's first black president, in 2008 and 2012.

The problem, he said, is those groups represent around the same percentage of
the population as rural voters. And he says Democrats didn't have enough of a
counter argument to powerful Republican themes of less regulation and lower
taxes.

"There wasn't an overarching theme that a person in a small town could go, 'Oh,
they're talking about me,'" Vilsack said.

According to exit polls, about 17 percent of voters in this year's election were
from small cities or rural areas, and 62 percent of them said they voted for
Trump.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             792 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Wisconsin GOP's ground game a winner

BYLINE: SCOTT BAUER The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 648 words


MADISON, Wis. - Seven months ago, as Wisconsin Republicans looked ahead to the
upcoming presidential election, they focused on the state's nonpartisan race for
the state Supreme Court as a test run of sorts.

They figured out the most effective way to identify and register Republicans
with a low likelihood of voting and persuade independents to get to the polls.
They analyzed where and when to put resources into the field. They looked at how
best to spend on mailings and phone calls.

"When we looked at the Supreme Court race, it was an opportunity for us to
fine-tune our operation," said Mark Morgan, state director for the Republican
National Committee.

Conservative Justice Rebecca Bradley won by more than 95,000 votes in April. In
November, Republican Donald Trump eked out a much tighter Wisconsin victory -
just over 27,000 votes - against Hillary Clinton.

Republicans, both nationally and in Wisconsin, say the difference-maker for
Trump was the ground game, which they built for more than a decade, first with a
series of recall elections in 2011 and 2012 and honed with the Supreme Court
race.

The Wisconsin GOP has a reputation as one of the best state party operations
because of it, said Luke Martz, a Republican consultant who worked in eight
states.

"They run a very tight ship," said Martz, who was Bradley's campaign manager and
noted that though that race benefited from the party's work, there was no
coordination. "They know what they're doing. They know how to win races."

While Republicans revel in victory, Democrats are trying to chart a path forward
as they look ahead to 2018, when they'll have to defend U.S. Sen. Tammy
Baldwin's seat and attempt to win back the governor's office.

The state spokeswoman for Clinton talked up Democrats' efforts despite
November's outcome.

"Democrats up and down the ticket were supported by a robust organizing
operation and an incredible volunteer network across Wisconsin," said Gillian
Drummond, who also is a longtime Wisconsin Democratic operative. "From phone
banks in small towns to knocking doors in cities and organizing events
everywhere in between, the Democratic operation was second to none."

The Republican ground game can't be credited for all of their success.

Clinton underperformed President Barack Obama's 2012 totals in Democratic
counties. Key voters - young people, women, African-Americans and Hispanics -
did not turn out in the numbers she needed to win. Plus, Democrats had to raise
money without any visits from Clinton or Obama - the first presidential election
since 1972 when one of the major party candidates skipped the state.

Still, the Republican track record in Wisconsin since 2010 shows Scott Walker
winning three elections, including a recall; Sen. Ron Johnson twice, the second
in a presidential year; and Republicans flipping control of the Legislature.
They now have their largest Senate majority since 1971 and their biggest in the
Assembly since 1957.

Republicans shifted their strategy in 2004 after party leaders realized they
couldn't win elections just through television advertising alone, GOP operative
Mark Graul said. Republicans have invested in sophisticated data analytics to
target the right voters at their homes, contacts that are more effective than
phone calls, Graul said.

Republicans also instituted a "turf model" or "neighborhood team" approach that
divided the state into 99 different regions.

"We didn't leave any stone unturned," said Juston Johnson, the national party's
regional political director for Wisconsin. "We went into communities that we
haven't necessarily been in before."

Conventional wisdom among political operatives is that a solid ground game will,
at best, yield up to 3 points in an election. Trump won Wisconsin by less than a
point and Johnson prevailed by 3.4 points.

"The early investments paid off," Morgan said. "The infrastructure is second to
none.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             793 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Free speech: Debate it but celebrate it

BYLINE: Telegraph Herald Editorial Board

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 838 words


where we stand Sugary beverages are a factor -- yet not the only contributor to
-- the national obesity epidemic. But imposition of extra taxes on soft drinks
seems more about the revenue for government than public health.

O

n this, the eve of Thanksgiving 2016, many Americans are not much in the mood
for giving thanks and sharing joy.

For some, the election did not go their way, and they are unhappy with what
President-elect Trump has done or what they anticipate he will do.

For others, they are thrilled with the election results but object to the
protests and conduct of those on the other side.

And for virtually all Americans, there are myriad problems, issues and
injustices that serve to, as the Bob Dylan protest song goes, "shake your
windows and rattle your walls." Dwell on just one or two of those issues, and it
could pretty well spoil your Thanksgiving.

It seems hard to believe, because so much has happened during this period, but
it has been only two weeks since the results of the presidential election were
confirmed and Donald Trump (victory) and Hillary Clinton (concession) delivered
their speeches.

This subsequent fortnight has included street protests by Trump opponents,
pushback from Trump supporters and other statements of protest in various forms,
including those by musicians, actors and other celebrities.

On Friday, Vice President-elect Mike Pence attended the Broadway production of
the hit musical "Hamilton." Not since Abraham Lincoln has a senior government
official's trip to a theater received so much press. That's because the cast
used its curtain call to call out Pence as he was reaching the exit (security
procedures, no doubt).

With fellow cast members standing behind him on stage, actor Brandon Dixon said,
"We, sir - we are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new
administration will not protect

us, our planet, our children, our parents, or defend us and uphold our
inalienable rights." He said, "We truly hope that this show has inspired you to
uphold our American values and to work on behalf of all of us."

Was that appropriate? Was that disrespectful? Are public officials, wherever and
whenever they might be, fair game for comment and criticism? When people buy a
ticket to a production or performance, are they entitled to a production or
performance without the performers' personal opinions?

Those are hard questions. Is there a way to balance free-speech rights and
respect for an individual who soon will be a heartbeat away from the presidency?
People will disagree about that. In fact, Pence, who also drew boos from some
audience members last week, and his boss-to-be see it differently.

The president-elect sent out several angry tweets, denouncing the cast of the
"overrated" show for disrespect and harassment of Pence. He demanded an apology,
which is not likely to come.

However, Pence took it all in good stride. Without stating judgment on the boos
and on-stage call-out, Pence said he wasn't offended and acknowledged that many
Americans are concerned about the future.

"I know this is a very disappointing time for people that did not see their
candidate win in this national election. I know that this is a very anxious time
for some people," Pence said on Fox News Sunday. "And I just want to reassure
people that what President-elect Donald Trump said on election night, he
absolutely meant from the bottom of his heart. He is preparing to be the
president of

all of the people of the United States of America."

Pence noted that when some boos were mixed with cheers as he and his children
took their seats in the theater, he nudged his children and said, "This is what
freedom sounds like."

Indeed.

That is what freedom in

America

sounds like.

In many other countries, do what those actors did or those protesters are doing,
and the outcome could be far different than it is here. Instead of an angry
tweet, they would receive punishment.

A few years ago, the Mail & Guardian, of South Africa, compiled a summary of how
various countries deal with dissent or simple disrespect toward government
officials and-or royalty. It's not pretty.

Harsh punishments are not limited to such countries as Turkey, where a prison
term of up to four years awaits someone criticizing its president; China, where
someone can wind up in prison for virtually anything deemed subversive; and
Iran, where the insult of any government leader is worth up to two years
imprisonment - or, as an option, a fine and a flogging of 74 lashes.

Even our friends and allies don't take kindly to insults. France, Spain, Brazil
and Thailand are among the countries that punish (usually with fines) those who
speak ill of their leaders.

So, during these tense and unsettled times in our country, where free speech is
exercised and its propriety debated, we should appreciate on this Thanksgiving
that we live in the United States of America, which, despite its many
challenges, remains the greatest nation on Earth.

Editorials reflect the consensus of the Telegraph Herald Editorial Board.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             794 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Experts ask Clinton to seek recount in 3 battleground states

BYLINE: JONATHAN LEMIRE and DAVID HAMILTON The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 441 words


NEW YORK - A group of election lawyers and data experts have asked Hillary
Clinton's campaign to call for a recount of the vote totals in three
battleground states - Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania - to ensure that a
cyberattack was not committed to manipulate the totals.

There is no evidence that the results were hacked or that electronic voting
machines were compromised. The Clinton campaign on Wednesday did not respond to
a request for comment as to whether it would petition for a recount before the
three states' fast-approaching deadlines to ask for one.

President-elect Donald Trump won Wisconsin and Pennsylvania by razor-thin
margins and has a small lead in Michigan. All three had been reliably Democratic
in recent presidential elections.

The group, led by voting-rights attorney John Bonifaz and J. Alex Halderman, the
director of the University of Michigan Center for Computer Security and Society,
contacted the Clinton campaign this week. That call, which was first reported by
New York Magazine, raised the possibility that Clinton might have received fewer
votes than expected in some counties that rely on electronic voting machines.

But Halderman, in an article posted on Medium on Wednesday, emphasized that the
group has no evidence of a cyberattack or voting irregularities. He urged that a
recount be ordered just to eliminate the possibility.

"The only way to know whether a cyberattack changed the result is to closely
examine the available physical evidence - paper ballots and voting equipment in
critical states like Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania," Halderman wrote.

Recounts, which are often costly and time-intensive efforts, would likely only
be initiated if the Clinton camp pushed for one, though Wisconsin independently
announced that it would conduct an audit of its vote. A call for a recount,
coming on the heels of a sharply partisan election, would likely be cheered by
Democrats but denounced by Republicans.

A request to the Trump transition team for comment was not immediately returned.

Trump's campaign had long believed that his message of economic populism would
resonate in the Rust Belt. He frequently campaigned in Pennsylvania and made a
late push in both Wisconsin and Michigan, successfully turning out white
working-class voters whom pollsters may have missed.

Many pre-election polls showed Clinton with slight leads. While advocating for
the recounts, Halderman writes that "the most likely explanation" for Trump's
surprise win "is that the polls were systematically wrong."

The deadlines for petitioning for a recount in all three states are in the
coming days, with Wisconsin's on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             795 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Civics gets renewed attention in schools

BYLINE: MICHAEL MELIA The Associated Press

SECTION: E; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 611 words


HARTFORD, Conn. - The incumbent governor ran on a kindness platform and is just
finishing up a year of public appearances and speeches. The candidates vying to
succeed her are focusing their campaigns on issues including homelessness,
recycling and bullying prevention.

Welcome to politics, elementary-school style.

Seven candidates are running to be the fifth-grade "kid governor" of Connecticut
in an election that seeks to spark deeper interest for all students in
government and civics, subjects getting less attention in American schools today
than in earlier decades.

Similar efforts have sprouted as education-focused nonprofits and schools aim to
prepare better-engaged citizens. Advocates said a need for more civic
instruction has been apparent for years but was highlighted by the low voter
turnout and acrid tone in the presidential race between Hillary Clinton and
Donald Trump.

"Effective civics learning promotes civil discourse. Effective civics learning
helps students develop the ability to discuss controversial issues respectfully.
That seemed to be in very short supply in the election we've just gone through,"
said Ted McConnell, executive director of the Campaign for the Civic Mission of
Schools. "Basic civics knowledge is wanting throughout our country."

After years of decline, many efforts are underway to restore the role advocates
say schools were intended to play in teaching students their rights and
responsibilities as citizens.

The decline in schools began in the 1950s and accelerated in the 2000s as
schools emphasized courses with more bearing on testing under No Child Left
Behind, McConnell said. Where high schools once taught three civics courses, he
said, it is generally down to one.

"Illinois, which had been among less than a dozen states without a civics
requirement, required at least a semester of instruction for students to
graduate beginning this year.

"Nonprofit groups such as Generation Citizen and Discovering Justice have
mobilized volunteers to help high school teachers run action-oriented civics
projects and teach the importance of good citizenship.

"States including California, Connecticut and New York have updated their social
studies frameworks to put more emphasis on civics and participatory skills.

In Connecticut, 4,400 fifth-graders from 45 cities and towns voted to choose the
kid governor. The program, which also includes in-class lessons about government
and engaging with community issues, was launched last year by the Connecticut
Public Affairs Network, with sponsorship by the state Department of Education.

The winner serves a one-year term. Responsibilities include developing a plan to
deliver on campaign promises, keeping up a blog highlighting other students'
efforts to make a difference, and making public appearances and speeches.

The current kid governor, Elena Tipton, 11, of East Hartford, was elected last
year on a kindness platform. She said she originally planned a campaign focused
on bullying prevention, but she said that would be giving bullies the attention
that they want.

"The best part about it is that I get to go around and meet all these different
people and learn what they do to be kind," Elena said.

Research has shown that civics education, including discussions of current
events, increases the likelihood young people will vote, said Peter Levine, an
associate dean at the Jonathan M. Tisch College of Civic Life at Tufts
University. There also is evidence, he said, that when children are engaged,
their parents are more likely to vote.

The framework adopted last year in Connecticut urges schools to teach civics
throughout the curriculum, and not just in high school.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             796 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Clinton being pushed to seek 3-state recount

BYLINE: JONATHAN LEMIRE and DAVID HAMILTON The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 888 words


NEW YORK - A group of election lawyers and data experts has asked Hillary
Clinton's campaign to call for a recount of the vote totals in three
battleground states - Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania - to ensure that a
cyberattack was not committed to manipulate the totals.

There is no evidence that the results were hacked or that electronic voting
machines were compromised. The Clinton campaign on Wednesday did not respond to
a request for comment as to whether it would petition for a recount before the
three states' fast-approaching deadlines to ask for one.

President-elect Donald Trump won Wisconsin and Pennsylvania by razor-thin
margins and has a small lead in Michigan. All three states had been reliably
Democratic in recent presidential elections.

The group, led by voting-rights attorney John Bonifaz and J. Alex Halderman, the
director of the University of Michigan Center for Computer Security and Society,
contacted the Clinton campaign this week. That call, which was first reported by
New York Magazine, raised the possibility that Clinton may have received fewer
votes than expected in some counties that rely on electronic voting machines.

But Halderman, in an article posted on Medium on Wednesday, stressed that the
group has no evidence of a cyberattack or voting irregularities. He urged that a
recount be ordered just to eliminate the possibility.

"The only way to know whether a cyberattack changed the result is to closely
examine the available physical evidence - paper ballots and voting equipment in
critical states like Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania," Halderman wrote.

Recounts, which are often costly and time-intensive efforts, would likely only
be initiated if the Clinton camp pushed for one, though Wisconsin independently
announced that it would conduct an audit of its vote. A call for a recount,
particularly coming on the heels of a fiercely contested and sharply partisan
election, would likely be cheered by Democrats but denounced by Republicans
eager to focus on governing.

A request to the Trump transition team for comment was not immediately returned.

Trump's campaign had long believed that his message of economic populism would
resonate in the Rust Belt. He frequently campaigned in Pennsylvania and made a
late push in both Wisconsin and Michigan, successfully turning out white
working-class voters whom pollsters may have missed.

Many pre-election polls showed Clinton with slight leads. While advocating for
the recounts, Halderman writes that "the most likely explanation" for Trump's
surprise win "is that the polls were systematically wrong."

The deadlines for petitioning for a recount in all three states are in the
coming days, with Wisconsin's on Friday. Green Party candidate Jill Stein
announced a fundraising effort Wednesday to pay for such recounts.

The focal point of any possible electoral cyberattack presumably would have been
electronic voting machines that, whether or not they are connected to the
internet, could be infected with malware that could change vote totals. But many
of those machines produce a paper record of the vote that could be checked to
see if the vote tabulations are accurate.

Pennsylvania is considered one of the states most susceptible to hacking because
96 percent of its voting machines have no paper trail. Wisconsin is far less
vulnerable because it uses electronic machines with voter-verifiable paper
trails in most counties. Michigan is considered the safest of the three because
it uses paper ballots.

Officials in the three states confirmed that no recounts have been ordered. A
spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department says it is not tallying the number of
voting complaints to determine whether federal action is warranted.

Many election experts have called for routine post-election audits designed to
boost public confidence in vote outcomes, by guarding against both tampering and
natural vote-counting mistakes. These could involve spot-checks of the voting
records and ballots, typically in randomly selected precincts, to make sure that
votes were accurately recorded.

In many states, audits involve hand-counting the votes on paper ballots and
comparing the results to the totals stored in the state's electronic voting
system. Such audits do sometimes turn up mistakes that reverse an election. That
happened in Florida's Palm Beach County in 2012, when a post-election audit
determined that the "winners" in two city council races were actually losers.

Routine audits also make it possible to confirm the accuracy of elections
without putting the onus on losing candidates to call for a recount. In states
without regular audits, a candidate who questions the results gets "painted as a
sore loser," Pamela Smith, president of the nonprofit Verified Voting, said in
an interview earlier this year. "If you do a regular audit, you often don't need
a recount. It either shows the count was right or you find something."

Any attempted hack to swing the results in three states would have been a
massive and unprecedented undertaking. But electoral security was an issue that
loomed large in many Americans' minds this year as the Democratic National
Committee and several Clinton staffers had their emails breached and later
released. U.S. security officials believe that hack of email was orchestrated by
Russian hackers.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             797 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Trump scorned Roberts, but could need his vote

BYLINE: MARK SHERMAN The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 608 words


WASHINGTON - It's a safe bet that when Chief Justice John Roberts and Donald
Trump meet outside the Capitol on Inauguration Day, Roberts won't ask why Trump
said terrible things about him.

"Disgraceful" and "an absolute disaster" were some of the ways Trump
characterized Roberts as he campaigned.

Come Jan. 20, Roberts will administer the oath of office, the two men will shake
hands and then Roberts will recede into the background. For now.

Roberts and the rest of the Supreme Court probably will be called on to review
Trump's major undertakings as president. Trump could need Roberts' vote on
matters ranging from immigration to health care to environmental regulations.

Will it matter that in the course of the campaign, Trump had harsh words for the
leader of the federal judiciary? The pointed criticism of a justice by name was
only one in a long list of unusual aspects of Trump's campaign for the
presidency.

"Justice Roberts really let us down," Trump told an audience in Aiken, S.C.,
last December. "What he did with Obamacare was disgraceful, and I think he did
that because he wanted to be popular inside the Beltway," he added, referring to
greater Washington.

A month later, in an interview with ABC News' George Stephanopoulos, Trump again
referred to the health care decisions when he said, "Justice Roberts turned out
to be an absolute disaster."

Roberts was savaged by several Republican presidential candidates, an unusual
spectacle given Roberts' appointment by a Republican president and his generally
conservative record. Roberts has not responded to the criticism. Among the
justices, Ruth Bader Ginsburg made plain her dislike of Trump in July, then
walked back her comments a few days later.

Trump's controversial idea about keeping Muslims out of the U.S. would certainly
face a court challenge if his administration tries to put it in place.
Environmental groups that have been fighting for Obama-era regulations would be
expected to fight Trump efforts to roll those back.

In these and other areas where the extent of the president's power is at stake,
the Supreme Court could have the final word.

As chief justice of a court that is divided between four liberal appointees of
Democratic presidents and four more conservative justices who were put on the
court by Republicans, Roberts has said he has spent even more time than usual
seeking agreement.

The potential for deadlock will disappear once Trump nominates and the Senate
confirms someone to fill the seat that has been vacant since Justice Antonin
Scalia's death in February.

But even then, Roberts might see the value in consensus, said Artemus Ward, a
political science professor at Northern Illinois University who has written
about the Supreme Court.

"Does the court want to issue divided opinions to a divided country on divisive
issues?" Ward asked.

The inauguration-day meeting between Roberts and Trump may have its closest
parallel in the contentious relationship between Earl Warren and Richard Nixon,
old Republican political rivals in California.

In January 1969, Warren was the chief justice who asked Nixon to raise his right
hand and repeat the presidential oath. In that campaign, Nixon ran against the
liberal Warren Court on a law-and-order platform.

"One of the most painful moments of Warren's life had to be swearing in Nixon,"
said Jim Newton, author of the Warren biography "Justice for All."

But there is no evidence from records of the 1968 presidential race that Nixon
personally disparaged Warren, Newton said. The chief justice already had
announced that he would retire from the Supreme Court and Nixon knew he would
appoint a successor if he won.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             798 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Wisconsin recount will have to move quickly

BYLINE: Patrick Marley and Bill Glauber Tribune News Service

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1058 words


Wisconsin will begin a historic presidential recount next week and the state
could risk losing its ability to have its 10 electoral votes counted if it
doesn't meet key deadlines next month.

Hitting a Dec. 13 deadline could be particularly tricky if Green Party
presidential nominee Jill Stein is able to force the recount to be conducted by
hand, Wisconsin's top election official said.

Stein and independent presidential candidate Roque "Rocky" De La Fuente
separately filed recount requests late Friday, the last day they were able to do
so. Stein received about 30,000 votes and De La Fuente about 1,500 out of 3
million cast.

One or both of them will have to pay for the recount because they lost by more
than 0.25 percent. The cost could top $1 million.

Stein is also planning to ask for recounts in Michigan and Pennsylvania, which
have deadlines next week. She has raised $5 million for the recounts in recent
days - more than she raised during her campaign leading up to the Nov. 8
election.

Wisconsin's recount will likely begin late next week, once the state has tallied
a cost estimate and received payment from Stein's campaign, said Michael Haas,
administrator of the Wisconsin Elections Commission.

Recounts will be done by county boards of canvassers, which will likely have to
work nights and weekends, Haas said.

The push for a recount came as liberals raised fears about hacked voting
machines. Election officials and experts say they are unaware of any problems
with Wisconsin's vote tally.

Republican Donald Trump edged out Democrat Hillary Clinton by some 27,000 votes
in Wisconsin, becoming the first GOP presidential candidate to win the state
since 1984.

Wisconsin's last statewide recount was in 2011 for a state Supreme Court seat
and the outcome did not change. The recount showed Justice David Prosser
defeated challenger JoAnne Kloppenburg by 7,004 votes - a slightly tighter
margin than the 7,316-vote victory he had in initial returns.

That recount took more than a month. This one would have to happen more quickly
because a federal law says states must complete presidential recounts within 35
days of the election to ensure their electoral votes are counted. This year,
that's Dec. 13.

"You may potentially have the state electoral votes at stake if it doesn't get
done by then," said Haas.

A lawyer with Stein's campaign has said it wants the recount done by hand. That
would take longer and require a judge's order, Haas said.

Perhaps the most important deadline is Dec. 19, when electors around the country
must meet to cast their Electoral College votes, said Edward Foley, an expert in
election law at Moritz College of Law at Ohio State University.

"That is a hard deadline and if a state were to miss that deadline, it would be
technically in jeopardy of not having its electoral votes counted," he said.

If the recount isn't complete by then, electors from Wisconsin could meet anyway
and try to have their results sent to Congress by the time it counts the votes
on Jan. 6, Foley said. Congress has wide latitude to decide how to count the
states' electoral votes.

Political scientist Barry Burden, the director of the Elections Research Center
at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, said it would be extremely difficult to
complete the recount on time. About twice as many votes were cast in the
presidential election as the 2011 Supreme Court race.

In recounts, typically both candidates gain votes, in part because absentee
ballots that weren't counted initially get tallied, he said. Some absentee
ballots don't get counted on election day because they were damaged or had extra
marks on them.

Closing Clinton's gap of 27,000 votes is unlikely, Burden said. She would have
to win recounts in all three states to win the presidency - an even more remote
possibility.

Wisconsin Assembly Majority Leader Jim Steineke, R-Kaukauna, called the move for
a recount ridiculous, saying it would needlessly burden busy local officials.

"If your votes came in at 1 percent of the overall total of the vote, it doesn't
make a lot of sense that you should be able to request a recount and put the
whole state through this," he said.

He said he would consider legislation next year that would allow candidates to
force recounts only if they lost by a small margin.

The Clinton and Trump campaigns have not commented on the recount effort.

"Jill Stein's decision to pursue a recount is absurd and nothing more than an
expensive political stunt that undermines Wisconsin's election process," Mark
Morgan, the executive director of the state Republican Party, said in a
statement.

The call for a recount came as some questioned Trump's wins in Wisconsin,
Michigan and Pennsylvania. But election experts noted the voting patterns in
those states were similar to the ones in other Midwestern states such as Iowa
and Ohio.

George Martin, who sits on the Green Party's coordinating committee, said Stein
was seeking the recount because of concerns about differences between the votes
and exit polls, as well as worries that there could have been tampering with
voting machines.

"I want to be clear, there is no smoking gun," Martin said during a news
conference at Milwaukee's City Hall. "There's not something we're pointing (at)
to say that 'this is wrong in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.' What we are
saying is there is enough peripheral evidence to warrant that our system should
be investigated."

Excess money raised for the recount will go to Green Party campaign schools next
year "to groom local candidates," Martin said.

De La Fuente said he was seeking the recount because he believed he had been
cheated out of thousands of votes. He accused both major parties of cheating,
but conceded he wasn't shorted enough votes to change the election results.

"Whoever cheats the most wins," he said. "The irony is they're both cheating."

UW-Madison's Burden said hacking Wisconsin's voting machines would be extremely
difficult because they are not connected to the internet.

"They would have to go machine by machine around the state," he said of those
who would try to manipulate the results.

Hacking of election systems is a genuine concern, but the results would be
unlikely to be affected, Burden said. A more realistic risk is that hackers
could steal personal information from voter rolls or deactivate the
registrations of voters, he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             799 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Trump slams recount push as 'a scam'

BYLINE: STEVE PEOPLES The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 704 words


WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. - President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday condemned a
growing push to force recounts in three states pivotal to his Nov. 8 victory,
confronting the Green Party-backed effort for the first time even as he worked
to address key Cabinet vacancies.

The New York billionaire, who charged the election was "rigged" on a daily basis
before his victory, called the developing recount effort "a scam" in a statement
released by his transition team.

Trump had been ignoring Green Party nominee Jill Stein's fight to revisit vote
totals in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. Wisconsin officials announced
late Friday they are moving forward with the first presidential recount in state
history.

"The people have spoken and the election is over," Trump declared Saturday. He
added, "We must accept this result and then look to the future."

At the same time, Trump was working to address unfilled administration jobs,
having barely scratched the surface of creating the massive team needed to run
the government before his Jan. 20 inauguration.

The incoming president paid little if any attention to Stein's recount push, but
Democratic rival Hillary Clinton forced his hand on Saturday by formally joining
the effort. Stein, who drew 1 percent of the vote nationally, is raising
millions of dollars to fund the recounts.

"Because we had not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or outside
attempts to alter the voting technology, we had not planned to exercise this
option ourselves," Clinton campaign attorney Marc Elias wrote Saturday in blog
post. "But now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to
participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to
all sides."

Elias said Clinton would take the same approach in Pennsylvania and Michigan if
Stein were to follow through with recount requests those states, even though
that was highly unlikely to change the election outcome.

"Regardless of the potential to change the outcome in any of the states, we feel
it is important, on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally represented in
any court proceedings and represented on the ground in order to monitor the
recount process itself," Elias wrote.

Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2 million votes, but Trump
won 290 electoral votes to Clinton's 232, with Michigan still too close to call.
It takes 270 to win the presidency.

Trump, who repeatedly challenged the integrity of the U.S. election system
before his win, called the recount push "a scam by the Green Party for an
election that has already been conceded."

"The results of this election should be respected instead of being challenged
and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is doing," he said in the
statement, which didn't mention Clinton's involvement.

Trump was spending the Thanksgiving holiday weekend with family at his Palm
Beach estate, Mar-a-Lago. He had planned to focus on filling key administration
posts over the working vacation. On Friday, he named Fox News analyst Kathleen
Troia "KT" McFarland as deputy national security adviser and appointed campaign
attorney Donald McGahn as White House counsel.

Trump planned to return to his New York home today ahead of a series of Monday
meetings with prospective administration hires, including Sheriff David Clarke
of Milwaukee County, Wis. He's seen as a possible Homeland Security pick.
Clarke's vocal opposition to the "Black Lives Matter" movement has made him
popular with many conservatives.

Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence also have Monday meetings scheduled
with Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, Rep. Lou Barletta, R-Pa., former
Security and Exchange Commission commissioner Paul Atkins, World Wide Technology
chairman David Steward and General Growth Properties CEO Sandeep Mathrani.

Internal divisions over his choice for secretary of state have delayed that
critical decision. The options include former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who
lacks foreign policy experience, but was intensely loyal to Trump, and 2012
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who aggressively opposed Trump's
candidacy but is largely regarded as more qualified. Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker
is also a possibility.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             800 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

When home & country Intersect

BYLINE: JOHN KRUSE john.kruse@thmedia.com

SECTION: D; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 497 words


D

YERSVILLE, Iowa - Sitting alongside U.S. 20, Country Junction Restaurant is
designed to catch the eyes of tourist with its barn-themed aesthetic.

However, the Midwestern, home-style look of the establishment isn't all for
show.

"People keep on coming here because we're a restaurant where you can get real
home cooking," said Adam Schuster, office manager at Country Junction. "Families
in Dyersville know they can come here if they don't feel like cooking at home
and they can still get a great meal."

The restaurant's walls display pride in its history and reputation. Autographs
of celebrities, like Al Roker, and Major League Baseball players like Ryne
Duren, hang throughout Country Junction, proof of the establishment's ability to
attract people from all walks of life.

Karla Thompson, executive director of the Dyersville Area Chamber of Commerce,
said the restaurant joins the Field of Dreams movie site and the National Farm
Toy Museum as important tourist locations in the community.

"It's definitely become an icon for the city," Thompson said. "Anyone coming off
the highway is going to see it, which is brilliant."

Country Junction's menu delivers an earnest, Midwestern dining experience. The
location has become particularly popular for its selection of home-cooked pies.

"We go through about 12 pies every day, which is a lot," Schuster said. "On
Thanksgiving, we sell about 40 pies. It's the thing that people love most about
us."

Schuster said Country Junction always benefits from Dyersville's other tourist
attractions.

The National Farm Toy Show marks the busiest time of the year for the
restaurant. This year's show packed the restaurant Nov. 4, with about 1,400
people being served.

"It's been the most people we have ever had to serve in one day," Schuster said.
"The business has been absolutely insane."

Country Junction was founded in 1990.

Heidi Hagerty has worked at the restaurant since 1998. Although the restaurant's
ownership has changed through the years, the family friendly, Midwestern feel
has never changed, Hagerty said.

"People keep coming here because it's just a really friendly environment," she
said. "Good customer service can go a long way in getting people to come back."

The restaurant has expanded to add several features for customers. The basement
has been converted into a meeting hall that often is used as a location for
group meetings, events and political rallies.

"We didn't have as many political candidates as we would have expected this
year," Schuster said. "I think we had (former Republican presidential candidate)
Ben Carson come, but that was about it."

Additionally, the restaurant also comes equipped with a bar that closes at 9
p.m. A gift shop at the entrance is filled with goods and antiques all made in
the Midwest.

"Everything is designed to relate to the country lifestyle," Schuster said. "We
want people who know that life to be comfortable here, and we want people who
don't know it to be able to experience what it's like."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             801 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

'Peace' and 'hope' on holiday lists

BYLINE: ANNE D'INNOCENZIO The Associated Press

SECTION: D; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 420 words


NEW YORK - This holiday season, elves and "joy" may be on the way out and
"peace" and "hope" on the way in. A divisive election that left half the country
deflated and the other half rejuvenated could reverberate through the holiday
shopping season in the gifts people give or how they spend.

Some retailers say they have seen a surge in feel-good items such as spa
treatments, candles and comfort food, while executives at some major retailers
like Wal-Mart, Target and Macy's have said there's no obvious shift in consumer
behavior since the presidential election won by Republican Donald Trump.

The divide in the outlook might reflect the rift in the election, as Americans
split along geographic lines as well as by income.

"I don't need a comfort dog. I don't need anybody to feel sorry for me," said
Rhondi Bleeker, 50, of Totowa, N.J. "I'm actually happy because I was for
Trump."

Bleeker, who owns an eyelash extension business, believes the economy will be
better now. She says she still will be spending the same $3,000 as she does
every holiday season, but she believes her business could do even better because
whether people are sad or happy, most will want retail therapy.

Some shoppers say they plan to divert money from traditional gifts like sweaters
to donations to charity groups in their friends' or relatives' names.

Ryan Holmes, of Chicago, who voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton, said he plans
to devote at least one-quarter of the $750 he typically spends on holiday gifts
to doing that. Even for gifts like music or books, he says he can't help but
feel he might make a political statement such as perhaps giving a book on
climate change to educate a friend.

"I am frightened to what's to come, and sad and less hopeful," said Holmes, 34,
an urban planning and real estate consultant. But he added, "I'm feeling more
engaged."

The divide could play into the hands of retailers who customize goods to cater
to increasingly fragmented tastes.

"While some people might drive an election boost, there are going to be others
that will hold back," said Frank Badillo, director of research at consumer
research group MacroSavvy LLC. "The winners and losers are going to be divided
by category, by store, by different parts of the country."

Products that bear words like "hope" and "kindness" are seeing sales as much as
double since the election, says Lee Rhodes, founder and CEO of the nine-store
Glassybaby chain that sells handblown glass items. Those with themes like "elf"
and "joy" have not kept pace, she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             802 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Trump claims 'millions' cast ballots illegally

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 609 words


WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. - President-elect Donald Trump claimed without evidence
Sunday that "millions" voted illegally in the national election, scoffing at
Hillary Clinton's nearly 2 million edge in the popular vote and returning to his
campaign mantra of a rigged race even as he prepares to enter the White House in
less than two months.

Trump and his lieutenants assailed an effort - now joined by Clinton - to
recount votes in up to three battleground states, calling the push fraudulent,
the work of "crybabies" and, in Trump's estimation, "sad."

The president-elect went on to cast a shadow over the legitimacy of an election
that he actually won, tweeting that "I won the popular vote if you deduct the
millions of people who voted illegally." He further contended that if the
popular vote determined the presidency, "It would have been much easier for me
to win" it because he would have altered his campaign to pile up overall vote
totals, not Electoral College votes.

There's been no indication of widespread vote manipulation, illegal voting or
hacking that materially affected the outcome one way or the other. It's that
very lack of evidence that suggests Trump is likely to prevail in recounts.

As Trump worked to fill foreign policy and national security posts in his
Cabinet, a top adviser expressed astonishment that 2012 GOP presidential nominee
Mitt Romney remained under consideration for secretary of state after his
campaign-long questioning of Trump's character, intellect and integrity.

Trump on Sunday tweeted part of Clinton's concession speech, when she told
supporters they must accept that "Donald Trump is going to be our president,"
and snippets from her debate remarks, when she denounced the Republican nominee
for refusing to say in advance that he would accept the Election Day verdict.

This came on top of his saying it was a "scam" that Green Party nominee Jill
Stein was revisiting the vote count in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.
Trump won Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, and as of Wednesday, held a lead of almost
11,000 votes in Michigan, with the results awaiting state certification Monday.
His Michigan margin was a hair's breadth 0.22 percent of the state's votes.

Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2 million votes, but Trump
won 290 electoral votes to Clinton's 232, not counting Michigan. She could
conceivably tip the electoral balance in the remote event that all flipped to
her in recounts.

Trump planned to return to New York on Sunday after spending Thanksgiving
weekend at his West Palm Beach estate. His transition team said the
president-elect had scheduled a series of meetings today with prospective
administration hires.

Among the jobs Trump has yet to fill: secretary of state. Internal division over
the position again spilled out into the open on Sunday as Trump senior adviser
Kellyanne Conway voiced her concerns with the possibility of Romney landing such
a significant position.

Trump supporters "feel a bit betrayed that you can get a Romney back in there
after everything he did," Conway said. "We don't even know if he voted for
Donald Trump. He and his consultants were nothing but awful to Donald Trump for
a year." She added that she was "reflecting what the grassroots are saying."

Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker are among
other prospects to serve as the country's top diplomat.

"I'm all for party unity, but I'm not sure we have to pay for that with the
secretary of state position," Conway said.

Trump's incoming chief of staff, national party Chairman Reince Priebus,
acknowledged that Romney would represent "a team of rivals concept."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             803 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Wisconsin recount likely to start Thursday

BYLINE: Tribune News Service

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 471 words


MILWAUKEE - As Donald Trump lashed out via Twitter at Hillary Clinton Sunday
over her campaign's decision to join the recount process in Wisconsin, state
election officials announced that a recount will probably start Thursday.

At a meeting this morning, Wisconsin Elections Commission staff will ask the
commission to approve a schedule that would start the recount in all 72 counties
on Thursday. Under federal law, any presidential election disputes must be
resolved within 35 days of Election Day.

The Clinton campaign announced Saturday that it would participate in the
Wisconsin recount sought by Green Party candidate Jill Stein, and might join
Stein-backed efforts in Michigan and Pennsylvania.

While Clinton officials said they have seen no evidence of vote tampering, and
do not expect the results in any state to change, they believe their campaign
must be represented during any recount.

Trump beat Clinton by 22,000 votes in Wisconsin. No Republican presidential
candidate had won the state since 1984.

In a memorandum issued with today's meeting notice, Wisconsin Elections
Commission Interim Administrator Michael Haas and Elections Supervisor Ross Hein
outlined a very tight schedule to meet the Dec. 13 deadline.

"It will be a significant challenge to complete a statewide recount of nearly 3
million votes in less than two weeks. County canvass boards and (commission)
staff will need to put in a substantial amount of extended hours throughout the
next few weeks," the memorandum said.

If approved at a meeting Monday morning in Madison, here's how the recount will
be conducted:

Monday, cost estimates and vote tabulation method will be provided by county
clerks to the commission by noon. Commission officials will provide estimated
statewide costs to the campaigns of Stein and independent candidate Roque
"Rocky" De La Fuente by the end of the day.

Tuesday, the Stein and De La Fuente campaigns pay for the recount. Once full
payment is received from either campaign, the commission will issue a recount
order.

Wednesday, Elections Commission staff will hold a teleconference in the morning
for all county clerks and canvass members to outline the process and rules of a
recount. Since a 24-hour public-meeting notice is required for the recount, each
county must post its notice by Wednesday.

Thursday, the recount begins in every Wisconsin county.

Dec. 13, all county canvass boards must be completed by noon. Elections
Commission staff will prepare the official recount canvass certification by 3
p.m.

Stein and De La Fuente separately filed recount requests late Friday, the last
day they were able to do so. Stein received about 31,000 votes and De La Fuente
about 1,500 out of 3 million cast in Wisconsin.

The cost for Wisconsin's recount could top $1 million which either Stein or De
La Fuente, or both, must pay.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             804 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Stein's recount prompts gusher of donations

BYLINE: JULIE BYKOWICZ The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 550 words


WASHINGTON - Jill Stein is on track to raise twice as much for an election
recount effort than she did for her own failed Green Party presidential bid.

Fueled by the social media hashtag #recount2016 and millions of dispirited
Hillary Clinton voters, Stein's recount drive had already netted $6.3 million by
Monday, according to her campaign website. That's close to the $7 million she
posted as a goal and millions more than the roughly $3.5 million she raised
during her entire presidential bid.

Citing without evidence concerns about "cyber hacking," Stein wants a recount in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania - places that Clinton, a Democrat, thought
were safely in her column. Instead, Republican Donald Trump won all three and
with them the electoral votes needed to win the White House.

Stein won no states and wouldn't directly or immediately benefit from a recount
- nor would she likely be able to topple Trump. Even Clinton's attorney Marc
Elias wrote there's "no actionable evidence of hacking or outside attempts to
alter the voting technology."

But Stein's effort could help her in other ways.

By continuing to raise money, she is building up a larger donor list that she
can later turn to if she runs again. She also can try to influence policy by
urging those donors to call lawmakers or contribute to other politicians. Her
campaign says 137,000 people have contributed to the recount.

A bigger supporter list can command bigger fees if Stein chooses to lease it out
to other campaigns.

Laurence Tribe, a Harvard constitutional law professor, said that although
recounts are "entirely within the law," Stein's effort is probably aimed more at
"trying to gain attention and establish herself as a national player."

Stein said she is "proud to stand up for election integrity" regardless of
whether it changes the outcome of the presidential race. If she raises more
money than is needed for the recount itself - including multimillion-dollar
attorney fees - her campaign will use the surplus for "election integrity
efforts and to promote voting system reform."

Stein has reminded supporters that they can contribute up to $2,700 for her
recount drive - even if they'd already donated the maximum $2,700 to her for the
general election. Any money she raises in excess of the actual recount costs
could then be donated to charity or to a political party, according to Federal
Election Commission rulings.

"The money can't be used for her personal benefit, but beyond that there's some
flexibility," said Bob Biersack, who worked at the FEC for three decades.

The recount itself could be costly.

The Wisconsin Elections Commission voted Monday to proceed with a recount and
will bill Stein and other interested campaigns for the costs, estimated to be
around $1 million. The cost would rise if a court grants her request for a hand
recount.

Stein's campaign filed a lawsuit in Pennsylvania on Monday seeking a statewide
recount, but it wasn't clear if the courts had the authority to order one. The
campaign also says that on Wednesday it will request a Michigan recount.

Trump denounced the Stein recount effort as "ridiculous" and "a scam."

It's a way for Stein "to fill her coffers with money, most of which she will
never even spend on this ridiculous recount," the president-elect said Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             805 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Expert: Only way to be sure is to study paper trail

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 401 words


MADISON, Wis. - Wisconsin election officials are preparing to begin a recount of
the state's presidential vote this week. Here are answers to the most
significant questions about the pending recount:

WHO WON WISCONSIN?

Donald Trump defeated Hillary Clinton by 22,170 votes, or about 1 percent of the
vote, based on unofficial results. Wisconsin Elections Commission Chairman Mark
Thomsen, a Democrat, said he expected Trump to still be the winner after the
recount.

"The outcome is not going to be different," Thomsen said. "It may not be 22,170,
but I don't doubt that the president-elect is going to win that vote."

WHO ASKED FOR THE RECOUNT AND WHY?

Both Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein and Independent candidate Roque
"Rocky" De La Fuente requested the recount on Friday, although Stein is the only
one who was actively raising money to pay for it.

She alleged in a filing with the state that irregularities with the Wisconsin
vote indicated potential tampering. That, combined with "well-documented and
conclusive evidence of foreign interference in the presidential race before the
election," call into question Wisconsin's results, Stein alleged.

WHAT EVIDENCE DOES SHE HAVE?

University of Michigan computer scientist J. Alex Halderman said in an affidavit
attached to Stein's recount request that hackers could spread malware into
voting machines in battleground states and their work would be virtually
undetectable.

Halderman said whether the machines are connected to the internet is irrelevant
because election workers typically copy ballot designs from a computer that's
connected online and transfer the designs to the machines using memory sticks.
The only way to know if an attack took place is to examine the paper trail to
ensure votes cast match results determined by the machines, he said.

HAS WISCONSIN EVER DONE THIS BEFORE?

Wisconsin's last statewide recount was for a state Supreme Court race in 2011.
The recount showed Justice David Prosser defeated challenger JoAnne Kloppenburg
by 7,004 votes, just 312 votes less than the unofficial results showed. That
effort took more than a month and involved about half as many votes as the
nearly 3 million cast in this election.

WHEN WILL IT BE DONE?

The deadline for counties to report their recounted vote totals is 8 p.m. Dec.
12. The Elections Commission will review the totals before certifying the vote
on Dec. 13, the federal deadline.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             806 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Green Party to sue for hand recount

BYLINE: SCOTT BAUER The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 666 words


MADISON, Wis. - Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein said Monday she will
ask a judge to force a hand recount of nearly 3 million ballots cast in
Wisconsin after the state Elections Commission rejected her call to do that.

The commission voted unanimously to move ahead with a recount timeline that
would start the process on Thursday. But the commission left it up to local
election officials to determine the best method for conducting the recount,
either by hand or using ballot-tabulation machines.

Stein issued a press release saying she would ask a Dane County Circuit judge to
intervene and force the hand recount, a process that would be more expensive and
take longer than the more traditional recount. Her campaign spokeswoman did not
immediately return a message seeking comment.

Stein's Wisconsin recount request included an affidavit from University of
Michigan computer scientist J. Alex Halderman stating that a hand recount is the
only way to determine whether there could have been a cyberattack that affected
the results. He argued that records stored in electronic voting equipment could
have been manipulated in an attack.

The decentralized nature of Wisconsin's voting system, and the fact that the
equipment in question is not connected to the internet, makes it difficult to
see how there could have been a widespread attack, said Wisconsin Election
Commission administrator Mike Haas.

Wisconsin Elections Commission Chairman Mark Thomsen vigorously defended
Wisconsin's election system, saying he was certain that president-elect Donald
Trump would emerge as the winner after the recount. Trump beat Democrat Hillary
Clinton by 22,170 votes, based on unofficial results.

"We are confident in our popular vote count," Thomsen said.

Trump is claiming, without evidence, that millions of people voted illegally in
the election he won, issuing the baseless claim as part of his angry response to
a recount effort led by the Green Party and joined by Hillary Clinton's
campaign.

Stein and Independent candidate Roque "Rocky" De La Fuente each requested a
recount Friday in Wisconsin. They would have to pay the cost, which could top $1
million, before the recount would begin on Thursday. Elections officials were to
receive cost estimates on Monday and to bill the campaigns on Tuesday.

Thomsen, a Democrat, called on Trump to "come down from his Trump Tower" and
observe the recount in Wisconsin.

"To say that it's not being fair or people are counting illegal votes, from my
vantage point, is an insult to people running our elections," Thomsen told
reporters after the commission approved a timeline for the recount. "Someone has
the bully pulpit and somebody has impact on our citizens' right to trust what
happens down the block at their polling stations. I've never seen this kind of
attack on poll workers and how this system works."

Stein hopes to raise $7 million for recounts in Wisconsin, Michigan and
Pennsylvania, saying it's important to determine whether hacking affected the
results. Trump narrowly won all three states. There's no evidence that election
results were hacked or electronic voting machines were compromised.

The recount would include an examination of all ballots, poll lists, absentee
applications, rejected absentee ballots and provisional ballots.

The last statewide recount in Wisconsin was for a state Supreme Court race in
2011. The recount showed Justice David Prosser defeated challenger JoAnne
Kloppenburg by 7,004 votes, just 312 votes less than the unofficial results
showed.

That effort took more than a month and involved about half as many votes as the
nearly 3 million votes cast in this year's presidential election in Wisconsin.

Wisconsin's unofficial election results show President-elect Donald Trump with
1,404,000 votes, Hillary Clinton with 1,381,823 votes, Stein with 31,000 votes
and De La Fuente with 1,514.

Trump's victory in Wisconsin marked the first time since 1984 that a Republican
presidential candidate carried the state.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             807 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

National news in brief

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 405 words


Delta bans pro-Trump

passenger for life

ALLENTOWN, Pa. - Delta Air Lines is banning for life a passenger who rudely
professed his support for Republican President-elect Donald Trump and insulted
those who didn't on a flight to Pennsylvania, officials said.

CFO Edward Bastian said in an internal memo that the airline also is refunding
the cost of tickets for other passengers on the Nov. 22 flight from Atlanta to
Allentown.

A video posted on Facebook by a passenger shows a man standing in the aisle and
yelling profanities while insulting supporters of Democratic presidential
nominee Hillary Clinton.

He proceeds to clap and yell Trump's name a few times while other passengers
seemingly try to ignore him.

The crew questioned the man but did not remove him from the plane, saying they
didn't know the extent of the passenger's behavior.

New judge for officer's retrial

CINCINNATI - A new judge will hear the second trial of a white former University
of Cincinnati police officer in the fatal shooting of a black motorist, after
the judge who declared a mistrial over a hung jury removed herself Monday.

The case was assigned to Judge Tom Heekin, who will decide on pending matters
including the prosecutor's effort to move the trial to another jurisdiction.

Texas officials report 1st Zika case

DALLAS - Texas health officials are reporting the first case of the Zika virus
that likely was transmitted within the state.

The Texas Department of State Health Services said the woman is a resident of
Brownsville, located on the border the state shares with Mexico. But health
officials said she reports no recent travel to Mexico or anywhere else with
ongoing Zika transmission.

Serial killer suspect faces more charges

SPARTANBURG, S.C. - A South Carolina man suspected of being a serial killer was
formally charged with three additional counts of murder Monday for bodies found
buried on his land.

Spartanburg County Sheriff Chuck Wright already said the 45-year-old real estate
agent was responsible for those three killings and four more at a motorcycle
shop in 2003.

Republican Issa retains House seat

SAN DIEGO - California's Darrell Issa, the wealthiest member of Congress, is
keeping his House seat.

The eight-term Republican survived a fierce fight with Democrat Doug Applegate
in his district north of San Diego.

Unofficial returns Monday show Issa holding a 2,300-vote edge, with only a small
number of votes left. The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             808 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Judge allows Clinton to join recount lawsuit

BYLINE: TODD RICHMOND The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 312 words


MADISON, Wis. - A Wisconsin judge on Tuesday allowed Hillary Clinton to join
Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein's lawsuit demanding a hand recount
of the state's election, a process that might cost Stein about $400,000 more
than she anticipated.

Clinton's attorneys filed briefs in Dane County Circuit Court saying she has a
stake in the recount's outcome and a hand recount would be the most transparent
method and ensure the most accurate results. Judge Valerie Bailey-Rihn began a
hearing in the case Tuesday afternoon by allowing Clinton to join the action.

Donald Trump beat Clinton by about 22,000 votes in Wisconsin, but Stein has
alleged - without evidence - that the results might have been hacked in a
cyberattack. Under state law, Stein is responsible for the cost of the recount.
She has raised $6.4 million online so far for recounts in Michigan, Pennsylvania
and Wisconsin.

The Wisconsin Elections Commission estimated the recount would cost $3.5
million, and Stein's campaign wired that amount shortly before a 4:30 p.m.
deadline Tuesday to ensure the recount will take place. Election officials said
earlier Tuesday they had underestimated the cost and the recount may wind up
costing closer to $3.9 million.

Stein filed a lawsuit Monday demanding a judge order a hand recount. State
Department of Justice attorneys filed briefs Tuesday arguing that Stein hasn't
shown how a hand recount would change the election's results.

Stein's attorneys called University of Michigan computer scientist J. Alex
Halderman as their first witness during Tuesday's hearing. He said he believes
optical scanner machines that most Wisconsin municipalities use to tabulate
votes could be hacked with a screwdriver or with portable media containing
malware.

He told state attorneys on cross-examination, however, that he hadn't identified
any attack on a Wisconsin machine.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             809 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Trump taps Wall Street, D.C. vets for Cabinet

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 352 words


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump is tapping a trio of nominees with
deep ties to Washington and Wall Street to fill out his Cabinet, including
former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as treasury secretary.

On Tuesday, Trump also chose Georgia Rep. Tom Price to oversee the nation's
health care system, picking a fierce "Obamacare" critic who has championed
efforts to privatize Medicare. And he selected another veteran Republican,
Elaine Chao, to lead the Department of Transportation.

Mnuchin's official announcement was expected as early as today, according to a
person familiar with the decision who insisted on anonymity to confirm the pick
ahead of time.

Mnuchin, 53, led Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign and
became close with the president-elect and his family. But he has no government
experience, which could prove a hurdle in navigating the tricky politics of
Washington.

Price, picked to lead the Department of Health and Human Services after more
than a decade in Congress, helped craft House Speaker Paul Ryan's plan to
privatize Medicare, a position Trump opposed in the campaign. Chao, who was the
first Asian-American woman to serve in a president's Cabinet - she served under
George W. Bush - is married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.

The selections came as Trump spent Tuesday with advisers in his Manhattan
skyscraper, racing through meetings with prospective administration hires as
high-profile vacancies loom - none bigger than secretary of State. Former
Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, on the shortlist for the nation's chief
diplomat, was to have a private dinner with the incoming president.

Meanwhile, Price's selection raised questions about the incoming president's
commitment to Medicare, among other popular entitlement programs he repeatedly
vowed to preserve before the election. The Georgia congressman led GOP efforts
on Capitol Hill to transform Medicare into a voucher-like system, a change that
if enacted, likely would dramatically reduce government spending on the health
care program that serves an estimated 57 million people.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             810 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

6 people shot, 2 fatally, in front of Baltimore store

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1216 words


Stein makes Michigan her 3rd request for presidential recount

LANSING, Mich. - Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein on Wednesday
requested a full hand recount of Michigan's presidential vote, making it the
third state narrowly won by Republican Donald Trump where she wants another look
at the results.

Stein previously asked for recounts of the votes in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

President-elect Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton by about 10,700 votes
out of nearly 4.8 million ballots cast in Michigan, or two-tenths of a
percentage point. But Stein alleges that irregularities and the possibility that
vote scanning devices could have been hacked call the results into question.
Elections officials in all three states have expressed confidence in the
results.

Michigan's recount could start as early as Friday, though a challenge to the
recount by Trump might delay it.

The GOP says a Michigan recount would cost taxpayers far more than the $973,000
Stein paid when filing her recount petition.

Death toll increases to 7

in Tennessee wildfires

GATLINBURG, Tenn. - Three more bodies were found in the ruins of wildfires that
torched hundreds of homes and businesses in the Great Smoky Mountains area,
raising the death toll to seven, a Tennessee mayor said Wednesday.

Search-and-rescue missions continued, and Sevier County Mayor Larry Waters said
they had found three people who had been trapped since the fires started
spreading wildly in high winds on Monday night. The mayor said the three were
OK.

More than 14,000 people were evacuated from Gatlinburg on Monday night,.

Mayor's wife pleads guilty

to voluntary manslaughter

LOS ANGELES - The wife of a suburban Los Angeles mayor who was fatally shot in
his home two years ago pleaded guilty Wednesday to voluntary manslaughter.

Lyvette Crespo entered the plea in Los Angeles County Superior Court in the
killing of Bell Gardens Mayor Daniel Crespo, who was shot three times in the
chest during an argument.

If the plea deal is accepted by a judge, Lyvette Crespo will be sentenced to
three months in county jail, five years of probation, 500 hours of community
service and must complete an anger management course.

The 45-year-old woman, who claimed she was a battered wife who acted in
self-defense, sobbed as she left court with a scarf wrapped around her face and
said nothing.

Crespo told investigators she shot her husband in self-defense after he punched
their son in the face when the son intervened during an argument.

2nd immigrant holding facility will be opened on Texas border

HOUSTON - Federal immigration officials will set up a second temporary holding
facility on the Texas border to deal with a surge in arrivals of families and
unaccompanied children fleeing violence and poverty in Central America.

The temporary shelters at the Donna-Rio Bravo International Bridge in the Rio
Grande Valley city of Donna will hold up to 500 people, said U.S. Customs and
Border Protection.

Earlier this month, officials opened a similar tent facility in Tornillo,
outside El Paso, another busy port of entry.

BALTIMORE - Police said six people have been shot, two fatally, in front of a
northwest Baltimore store.

Spokesman T.J. Smith said a lone gunman fired on people standing in front of
Stop 1 Convenience Store at about 6 p.m. Wednesday. Detectives believe the
shooting was retaliation for a homicide in the area several days ago.

Police said the shooter fled on foot. Smith said officers have a limited
description of the suspect and urged witnesses to come forward.

Attorneys file challenges against abortion restrictions in 3 states

NEW YORK - Taking the offensive after Election Day setbacks, Planned Parenthood
and its allies filed lawsuits Wednesday in North Carolina, Missouri and Alaska
challenging laws that they view as unconstitutional restrictions on abortion.

Attorneys said the lawsuits are a follow-up to a major U.S. Supreme Court
decision earlier this year that struck down tough abortion laws in Texas.

The restrictions being challenged in Missouri are similar to those that the high
court struck down in Texas. They require abortion clinics to meet physical
standards for surgical centers and mandate that their doctors have admitting
privileges in nearby hospitals.

Partly as a result of those laws, only one licensed abortion clinic remains in
operation in Missouri. To reach that clinic in St. Louis, some women must drive
more than 300 miles, Planned Parenthood officials said.

Judge OKs settlement in boy's shooting death

CLEVELAND - A judge has approved the settlement of a lawsuit against Cleveland
filed by the family of Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old black boy fatally shot by a
white officer while playing with a pellet gun at a recreation center.

Cleveland agreed in April to settle the lawsuit over Tamir's 2014 death and pay
$6 million over two years.

Judge Anthony Russo said the settlement was fair, calling the death "a truly
unfortunate, tragic and disturbing event."

The $6 million also includes the attorneys' share of the settlement and $500,000
paid to Tamir's mother and sister soon after the federal civil rights lawsuit
was settled.

Tutor charged after boy, 7, is seriously injured

BALTIMORE - Police have arrested a tutor they said assaulted a 7-year-old boy in
school, leaving him hospitalized with significant injuries that require surgery.

Spokesman T.J. Smith said 25-year-old Timothy Randall Korr, of Baltimore, was
charged Wednesday with child abuse, assault and other offenses.

Smith said school surveillance video shows Korr carrying the child and slamming
him against a wall.

School officials said in a statement that Korr worked for the Baltimore
Curriculum Project, a contractor.

Lawyer: Toss evidence against mom in babies' deaths

WORCESTER, Mass. - The attorney for a Massachusetts woman charged in the deaths
of two babies is seeking to throw out physical evidence and statements obtained
as a result of two searches at her home.

Authorities found the skeletal remains two years ago in Erika Murray's squalid
Blackstone home. Murray has pleaded not guilty to several charges, including
murder.

Attorney Keith Halpern says in his motion that two searches were unlawfully
conducted. Halpern says one search warrant was "vague, overbroad and fatally
defective" and a second was "the illegal fruit of the initial invalid search."

He says authorities never established probable cause to search Murray's property
for evidence.

A fetus also was found in the home, but Murray wasn't charged in that death.

Former astronaut pleads not guilty in fatal wreck

TUSCALOOSA, Ala. - A former space shuttle commander has pleaded not guilty in a
fatal wreck that killed two girls in Alabama.

Court records show 60-year-old James Halsell Jr. entered the written plea last
week. The former astronaut is charged with reckless murder in a crash that
killed two girls riding in a car near Tuscaloosa, Alabama, in June.

Authorities say they suspect alcohol was a factor. But Halsell's lawyers filed a
document in a civil lawsuit blaming the other driver for failing to yield.

Halsell was arrested after the wreck killed 11-year-old Niomi James and
13-year-old Jayla Parler. He was on probation at the time after receiving a DUI
ticket in 2014.

Documents show the Huntsville man is free on bond and is next due in court for a
hearing in March.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             811 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Judge refuses to order Wisconsin hand recount

BYLINE: TODD RICHMOND The Associated Press

SECTION: C; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 343 words


MADISON, Wis. - A Wisconsin judge refused on Tuesday to order local election
workers to conduct the state's upcoming presidential recount completely by hand,
finding that nothing suggests the state's electronic tabulating machines have
been hacked.

Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein has been trying to make the case
that Wisconsin's tabulating machines could have been compromised in a
cyberattack and a hand recount is the only way to tell for sure. But Dane County
Circuit Court Judge Valerie Bailey-Rihn concluded Stein's attorneys failed to
show any hard evidence the machines were attacked and are unreliable.

Donald Trump beat Hillary Clinton by about 22,000 votes in Wisconsin, but Stein
has alleged - without evidence - that the results might have been hacked. She
asked for a recount last week, saying the state needs to be sure.

State Department of Justice attorneys filed briefs Tuesday arguing that Stein
hasn't shown how a hand recount would change the election's results. Elections
Commission Administrator Mike Hass said only 19 counties plan to use electronic
tabulators; the rest plan to count by hand.

Dane County Circuit Judge Valerie Bailey-Rihn convened a hearing late Tuesday
afternoon that went on four hours. Stein's side called computer experts who
testified that Wisconsin's electronic machines are vulnerable to cyberattack but
said they couldn't show whether one had actually occurred.

"All that we have here is 100 percent hypothetical speculation about what could
possibly happen. That's not convincing evidence," Assistant Attorney General S.
Michael Murphy told the judge.

Bailey-Rihn ultimately sided with the state, finding that Stein and Hillary
Clinton's lawyers failed to show any irregularities that prove electronic
tabulators could be problematic in the recount.

Debbie Greenberger, one of Stein's attorneys, told reporters after the decision
that Stein would consider appeal options. In the meantime, she said hopes the
counties take to heart the judge's remarks about a hand recount being the best
way to proceed.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             812 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Trump's Cabinet: 'Draining the swamp' or diving right in?

BYLINE: JULIE PACE and JOSH BOAK The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 768 words


WASHINGTON - Donald Trump promised to "drain the swamp" in the nation's capital.
Instead, he's diving right in.

So far, the president-elect is tapping people with deep ties to Washington and
Wall Street as he fills out his Cabinet, turning to two power centers he
vilified as greedy, corrupt and out of touch with Americans during his White
House campaign. His choices have won praise from Republicans relieved by his
more conventional choices, but could risk angering voters who rallied behind his
calls for upending the political system.

Two of Trump's early picks are wealthy financial industry insiders with ties to
the kinds of institutions he railed against as a candidate. Elaine Chao, his
choice for transportation secretary and an accomplished political figure in her
own right, is married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell - blending
family and political power in a way Trump fiercely criticized campaign rival
Hillary Clinton for. Jeff Sessions, Trump's selection for attorney general, has
spent two decades in the Senate, and Tom Price, his health and human services
nominee, is a six-term congressman.

The gap between Trump's campaign rhetoric and his governing decisions is most
striking regarding his emerging economic team. On Wednesday, he announced that
he planned to nominate former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as his
Treasury secretary and billionaire investor Wilbur Ross to lead the Commerce
Department.

As a candidate, Trump said Wall Street had created "tremendous problems" for the
country. He included the CEO of Goldman Sachs in a television advertisement that
accused global financial powers of having "robbed our working class."

Mnuchin and Ross also have financial links to Trump's White House bid, with
Mnuchin having led the campaign's fundraising efforts. Trump repeatedly bragged
that his personal wealth - he mostly self-funded his campaign during the
primaries - meant he would not be beholden to donors who might expect their
financial contributions to be repaid with powerful jobs or insider access.

"I can't be bought," Trump said during the campaign. "I won't owe anybody
anything."

Trump's transition team brushed aside questions about whether there are
inconsistencies between the president-elect's campaign rhetoric and his Cabinet
picks.

"These are experts who know how to win," spokesman Jason Miller said Wednesday.

By picking billionaires, as well as a smattering of millionaires, for his
Cabinet, Trump is asking voters to trust that privileged insiders can help a
stressed and dispirited middle class - even though he, like past presidential
candidates, promised he would change that dynamic. Few of his choices have
outwardly displayed much of a common touch. Many live surrounded by a level of
wealth that most Americans struggle to fathom - and prospered in recent decades
as many Americans coped with stagnant incomes.

Not only did Mnuchin once work at Goldman Sachs, but so did his father. After
leaving the investment bank in 2002, the Yale graduate pivoted into hedge fund
management and producing blockbuster movies such as "Batman vs Superman: Dawn of
Justice." Mnuchin invested in the wreckage of the housing crisis, scooping up
the troubled bank IndyMac and turning a $1.6 billion profit in under a year as
millions of Americans endured foreclosure.

Ross orbits a similar world as Trump, as both of them have luxurious homes in
Manhattan and Palm Beach, Florida. The billionaire investor bought up many
struggling steel, auto and coal firms in the industrial Midwest at a steep
discount and sold them for steep profits, even as factory and mining jobs at the
core of American identity disappeared.

Chao is the offspring of a Chinese shipping magnate, in addition to serving on
the boards of Wells Fargo bank, Dole Food and News Corp., the parent of Fox
News. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, the wealthiest of Trump's Cabinet
nominees thus far, married into the family that started the sales company Amway.

Trump and other Republicans spent months warning voters that a possible Clinton
administration would be lined with Wall Street insiders, campaign donors and
other special interest hires. But GOP officials have raised no such concerns
about Trump's picks.

If anything, some Republicans appear relieved. Many of Trump's picks are cut
from a more traditional Republican mold and share the party's ideological
preferences, in some cases more so than Trump himself.

"The picks so far have been fantastic and well-received by Republicans and
conservatives of all stripes," said Cesar Conda, the former chief of staff for
Florida Sen. Marco Rubio.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             813 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Wisconsin recount begins, mostly done by hand

BYLINE: SCOTT BAUER The Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 695 words


MADISON, Wis. - The tedious task of recounting Wisconsin's nearly 3 million
votes for president began Thursday with scores of hastily hired temporary
workers flipping through stacks of ballots as observers watched their every
move.

The action in Wisconsin could soon be duplicated in Michigan and Pennsylvania,
where Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein was pushing for recounts.
Donald Trump narrowly beat Hillary Clinton in all three states, but recounts
were not expected to flip nearly enough votes to change the outcome in any of
the states.

The Wisconsin recount marked the first time in 16 years there was a
candidate-driven recount of a presidential election. But it doesn't carry the
same drama as the Florida presidential recount of 2000, when the outcome of the
election between Al Gore and George W. Bush hung in the balance.

"This is certainly not Bush v. Gore," said Wisconsin's chief elections
administrator, Mike Haas.

Even so, the campaigns for Trump, Clinton and Stein all had observers spread
throughout the state to watch the process. The recount will have to move
quickly. The federal deadline to certify the vote to avoid having the fate of
Wisconsin's 10 electoral votes decided by Congress is Dec. 13. Even if that were
to happen, the votes would almost certainly go to Trump, since Republicans
control both chambers of Congress.

Most counties will manually recount the ballots, although Stein lost a court
challenge this week to force hand recounts everywhere. The state's largest
county, Milwaukee, was recounting the ballots by feeding them through the same
machines that counted them on election night. In Dane County, where Clinton won
71 percent of the vote, the ballots were being counted by hand.

Workers in Dane County are being paid $20 an hour and will work two shifts over
about 12 hours a day to get the recount done by the deadline, said County Clerk
Scott McDonell. He didn't expect much change in the results.

"I think we will be very close to what was reported on election night," McDonell
said Thursday.

Clinton lost to Trump by about 22,000 votes in Wisconsin, or less than a
percentage point.

Stein has argued, without evidence, that irregularities in the votes in all
three states suggest that there could have been tampering with the vote, perhaps
through a well-coordinated, highly complex cyberattack.

"Verifying the vote through this recount is the only way to confirm that every
vote has been counted securely and accurately and is not compromised by machine
or human error, or by tampering or hacking," Stein said in a statement Thursday.

Stein's critics, including the Wisconsin Republican Party, contend that she's a
little-known candidate who is merely trying to raise her profile while raising
millions of dollars. Stein has taken in nearly $7 million for the recounts,
which is about twice as much as her longshot presidential campaign took in.

The Wisconsin recount was estimated to cost about $3.9 million. Stein paid
$973,250 for the recount in Michigan.

The Trump campaign on Thursday objected to a hand recount of Michigan's
presidential votes, at least delaying the planned Friday start of the recount
there.

The Board of State Canvassers will meet Friday to hear arguments. The Michigan
Bureau of Elections says the recount cannot proceed for two business days after
the four-member, bipartisan board resolves the objection.

Trump's attorneys say Stein, who finished fourth in Michigan, isn't "aggrieved"
by any alleged election fraud or mistake, that a recount couldn't be finished on
time and that her petition wasn't properly signed. They say Stein is asking for
an expensive, time-consuming recount "on the basis of nothing more than
speculation."

In Pennsylvania, a hearing is scheduled for Monday on Stein's push to secure a
court-ordered statewide recount, a legal maneuver that has never been tried,
according to one of the lawyers who filed it.

Stein's attorneys want a forensic analysis of electronic voting machines in
Pennsylvania to see if there any evidence that their software was hacked. But
counties where Green Party-backed voters have sought a recount are refusing to
do such forensic examinations.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             814 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

In District, jitters over impending Trump era

BYLINE: Peter Jamison

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1178 words


Officials, activists, immigrants worry about future of 'sanctuary city'

Less than 24 hours after issuing a statement meant to quell immigrant fears of
deportation under Donald Trump's incoming administration, D.C. Mayor Muriel E.
Bowser emerged from a community meeting in Mount Pleasant to a throng of angry
activists.

"I don't feel safe." "I'm undocumented." "We're facing a fascist maniac."

Amid their shouts, demonstrators said they wanted   Bowser to denounce Trump's
immigration policies in the strong terms used by leaders of other large U.S.
cities.

"I appreciate the anxiety people feel, but your anger should not be addressed to
your mayor," said Bowser, a Democrat and Hillary Clinton supporter during the
presidential election. "Because your mayor has stood up in every case for this
community, period. I have asserted firmly that we are a sanctuary city, and our
policies are clear."

The crowd, which one protester said was about 100 strong, began chanting, "Not
enough."

The extraordinary encounter was captured on video Tuesday night at Mount
Pleasant Neighborhood Library, in the heart of neighborhoods that for decades
have absorbed waves of Central American immigrants. It was a gauge of tensions
that have gripped the District since Nov. 8, when Trump claimed the presidency
over the opposition of   more than 9 in 10 voters in his new city.

A liberal and ethnically diverse capital that has basked for eight years in the
aura of the first African American family to occupy the White House - a family
whose taste in restaurants, gyms and farmers markets became a source of local
gossip and pride - will have as its most famous occupant a man who decried the
criminality of immigrants and railed against the conditions of inner cities.

With the departure of President Obama, the District will also lose its most
powerful defender against the whims of a Republican-dominated Congress, which
will find itself newly empowered to assert control over the city's budget and
legislation in a way it has seldom been able to do over the past decade.

And with two months remaining before Trump assumes office, D.C. elected
officials are struggling to calibrate their stance toward this new reality. The
debate mirrors those discussions across the country among Trump opponents who
are divided over whether conciliation or defiance is best.

D.C. Council member David Grosso (I-At Large) said the District is probably in
for a rough ride under Trump, no matter what public posture it adopts toward the
White House.

"We already are a target," he said. "That's the challenge. The District of
Columbia is right here."

In no subject has the city's anxieties been more vividly displayed than on
immigration. In a much-publicized plan for his first 100 days in office, Trump
promises to strip all federal funding from "sanctuary cities," where political
leaders have decided that local law enforcement will not collaborate with
federal officials to deport illegal immigrants.

Such a punishment would be severely felt in Washington, which relies on direct
federal funding for 25 percent of its budget. In New York, by contrast, the
figure is 9 percent. Cities other than the District also receive a certain
amount of indirect federal funding that is funneled through their states.

The District "is very dependent on the federal government for large parts of its
budget and its ability to govern itself," said Luis Fraga, a political-science
professor and co-director of the Institute for Latino Studies at the University
of Notre Dame. "What may be a symbolic issue in some communities is much more
serious in Washington."

A sense of that risk has been evident in D.C. elected officials' measured tone
when discussing the potential effects of a Trump administration.

The mayors of other "sanctuary cities" have called news conferences in the wake
of the election to reassure undocumented residents, with Mayor Bill de Blasio of
New York vowing that "we're not going to take anything lying down."

Bowser, however, issued a three-sentence statement Monday night reaffirming the
District's "sanctuary city" status in language that some activists say was
tepid.

"We were like, 'This is very lukewarm. We need more,'" said Claudia Barragan,
describing the reaction among her fellow immigration activists.

"Our frustration came from the fact that she hadn't come out vocally in
affirming D.C. was a sanctuary city," said Barragan, who was among the
protesters at the library Tuesday night and who filmed the confrontation with
Bowser. "Meanwhile, we've been hearing in the news from Rahm Emanuel in Chicago,
from the mayors in New York and Seattle."

Not all Latino community leaders agree. Jaime Contreras, head of the Capital
Area District of 32BJ Service Employees International Union - which represents
janitors, security guards and other building-maintenance workers - said the
mayor's statement had reassured his members, many of whom have undocumented
friends or relatives.

"I don't know how much more clear she can make it," Contreras said. He
acknowledged, however, that "a press conference would have been great."

On Saturday, Bowser convened a conference call to allay D.C. residents'
persistent concerns about the election outcome. Organizers said the call had
about 5,000 participants.

"We will stand in opposition, strong opposition, to any policies that threaten
our values," Bowser said, adding that in her interactions with the Trump
administration she would also "continue to seek common ground on the things that
would be helpful to our city, like creating more jobs, more pathways to the
middle class and investments in our infrastructure."

Bowser said her staff was evaluating the potential effects of Trump's stated
policies - including his threat to withhold federal funding from sanctuary
cities - but that the task was challenging because Trump has not released
detailed proposals.

Bowser said she intended to request a meeting with the president-elect "at the
appropriate time" to discuss District priorities. She said she wanted to discuss
statehood, the importance of preserving the Affordable Care Act and improving
the Metro transit system, in addition to discussing residents' other concerns.

Immigration is not the sole issue that has prompted debate among D.C. officials
about how to approach Trump. At a Tuesday breakfast meeting, council members
argued over whether the city should spend the customary amount on a viewing
stand in front of city hall for Trump's inaugural parade.

Council member Charles Allen (D-Ward 6) said he supported cutting wasteful
spending on the parade bleachers but that city officials should tread carefully.

It was, he said, "not in the city's interest to just kind of give the middle
finger to the president-elect."

D.C. Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D), the District's long-serving congressional
representative, acknowledged residents' fears but said it was too early to
predict what the 45th president would mean for the city.

"I regard Trump as basically a blank policy slate," she said. "I'm not expecting
anything."

peter.jamison@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             815 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

3 security picks signal Trump is holding hard line

BYLINE: David Nakamura;Philip Rucker;Elise Viebeck

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1529 words


Sessions faces civil rights questions

President-elect considering picks for State, Defense

President-elect Donald Trump on Friday signaled his intention to deliver on his
hard-line campaign promises on immigration policy, voting rights, policing and
domestic surveillance of Muslims and others suspected of terrorist ties by
tapping a trio of staunch conservatives for senior national security roles in
his administration.

Trump announced that he plans to nominate Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) as
attorney general and Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.) as CIA director, while also
choosing retired lieutenant general Michael T. Flynn as his White House national
security adviser.

Trump's selections were greeted with widespread applause by his core supporters
and other Republicans. But Democrats and civil rights advocates denounced
Sessions and Flynn for their controversial records, portending a potentially
messy Senate confirmation process for Sessions, a 20-year veteran of the
chamber.

The announcements came as Trump is weighing his choices for two of the Cabinet's
highest- profile posts: secretary of state and secretary of defense. He
retreated Friday afternoon to his golf club at Bedminster, N.J., where he
intends to spend the weekend with working sessions with his staff and visitors,
including 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney.

Sessions, 69, was Trump's first endorser in the Senate and quickly became an
influential policy adviser to the GOP nominee. He consistently defended Trump,
including after an "Access Hollywood" video showed Trump bragging about grabbing
women by their genitals. Sessions argued that Trump's comments did not describe
sexual assault.

Sessions has been dogged by accusations of racism throughout his career. In
1986, he was denied a federal judgeship after former colleagues testified before
a Senate committee that he joked about the Ku Klux Klan, saying he thought they
were "okay, until he learned that they smoked marijuana."

The NAACP wrote in a Twitter message that Sessions's nomination is "deeply
troubling, and supports an old, ugly history where Civil Rights were not
regarded as core American values."

Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-Ill.) said in a statement, "If you have nostalgia for
the days when blacks kept quiet, gays were in the closet, immigrants were
invisible and women stayed in the kitchen, Senator Jefferson Beauregard Sessions
is your man."

Senate Republican leaders rallied to Sessions's defense and said they intended
to approve his nomination to lead the Justice Department and serve as the
nation's top law enforcement officer.

In a statement, Trump heaped praise on his nominee, celebrating Sessions's
"world-class legal mind" and noting his tenure in Alabama as U.S. attorney and
state attorney general. "Jeff is greatly admired by legal scholars and virtually
everyone who knows him," Trump said.

Sessions said in a statement that there was "no greater honor" than to lead the
Justice Department.

"I enthusiastically embrace President-elect Trump's vision for 'one America,'
and his commitment to equal justice under law," Sessions said. "I look forward
to fulfilling my duties with an unwavering dedication to fairness and
impartiality."

Because of Senate filibuster rule changes, Democrats' options to derail
Sessions's nomination are limited. To be confirmed, Sessions would need a simple
majority in the Republican-controlled chamber.

Unlike Sessions and Pompeo, Flynn is appointed and does not require Senate
confirmation. Still, Trump's pick of the three-star general and decorated
intelligence officer has ignited controversy.

Flynn has made inflammatory and derogatory comments about Muslims, and he
traveled to Moscow last year to dine alongside Russian President Vladimir Putin
at a gala celebrating RT, the state-run propaganda television network. Flynn
also supported Trump's call for a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United
States.

The president elect is also scheduled to meet Saturday with Romney, who was a
fierce critic of Trump's candidacy but who is being discussed as a potential
candidate for secretary of state.

Other scheduled visitors on Saturday include former D.C. public schools
chancellor Michelle Rhee, Chicago Cubs co-owner Todd Ricketts and retired Marine
general James Mattis, who is seen as a plausible defense secretary.

Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who is chairing Trump's transition, put a
positive spin on Trump's announced appointments and future selections during a
brief visit with reporters Friday at Trump Tower in New York.

"The president-elect is a man of action, and we've got a great number of men and
women with great qualifications who look forward to serving in this
administration," Pence said. "Our agency teams arrived in Washington, D.C., this
morning, and I am very confident it will be a smooth transition that will serve
to lead this country forward."

Trump characterized Flynn, who was one of his most trusted campaign advisers and
frequently traveled with him and spoke at rallies, as "one of the country's
foremost experts on military and intelligence matters."

"I am pleased that Lieutenant General Michael Flynn will be by my side as we
work to defeat radical Islamic terrorism, navigate geopolitical challenges and
keep Americans safe at home and abroad," Trump said.

After meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Thursday evening, Trump
continued his outreach to world leaders on Friday by speaking by phone with NATO
Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.

During the campaign, Trump had said he might reconsider the United States'
commitment to the alliance. But he and Stoltenberg "underlined NATO's enduring
importance" during Friday's call, according to a statement from a NATO
spokeswoman. Stoltenberg invited Trump to Brussels for the NATO summit next
year.

As they have all week, potential administration appointees cycled through Trump
Tower on Friday for face-to-face meetings with the president-elect, including
Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), a potential defense secretary candidate, and former
Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee (R), who is under consideration to be U.S.
ambassador to Israel.

Huckabee swatted away questions from reporters about whether he was seeking a
position. "My job right now is to listen to the president-elect," he said. "It's
his job to make the decisions. ... The only person giving out jobs in this
building is President-elect Donald Trump, not me."

Meantime, the Trump transition named agency landing teams for the departments of
Defense, State and Justice, along with the National Security Council, to help
smooth the transfer of power in the weeks leading up to Trump's inauguration
Jan. 20. Teams will begin work in other agencies and departments next week.

Trump's selection of Pompeo to lead the CIA did not spark as much controversy as
his choices of Sessions and Flynn.

Pompeo, 52, was elected to the House in 2010 as part of the first wave of tea
party lawmakers. A U.S. Military Academy and Harvard Law School graduate, he
served as an Army cavalry officer before founding an aerospace company and
running an oil-field equipment manufacturing firm. He also has worked as an
attorney with the Washington mega-firm Williams and Connolly.

Pompeo serves on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and is a
close ally of Pence. He backed Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) over Trump in the
Republican primaries but supported Trump in the general election.

A vocal critic of Obama's nuclear accord with Iran, Pompeo gained prominence
through his role in the congressional investigation into the 2012 attacks in
Benghazi, Libya, and assailed former secretary of state Hillary Clinton during
the committee's hearings.

Trump said of Pompeo: "He has served our country with honor and spent his life
fighting for the security of our citizens. ... He will be a brilliant and
unrelenting leader for our intelligence community to ensure the safety of
Americans and our allies."

Senate Democrats have pledged a rigorous confirmation review for all of Trump's
nominees - especially Sessions.

"I know Senator Sessions and we work out in the gym, but the fact that he is a
senator does not absolve him from answering tough questions in the confirmation
process," incoming Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a
statement. "Given some of his past statements and his staunch opposition to
immigration reform, I am very concerned about what he would do with the Civil
Rights Division at the Department of Justice and want to hear what he has to
say."

But some conservatives suggested it would be politically damaging to Democrats
if they attempt to block Trump's nominees, pointing to the fact that a handful
of Senate Democrats face reelection in 2018 in states that Trump carried
handily.

"Mr. Trump has a plane and double-digit victories where Senate Democrats are up
for reelection," said Leonard A. Leo, executive vice president of the Federalist
Society. "Obstructing his nominees will be a political loser."

david.nakamura@washpost.com

philip.rucker@washpost.com

elise.viebeck@washpost.com

Karen DeYoung, Robert Costa, Mike DeBonis, Ellen Nakashima, Greg Miller and
Katie Zezima contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             816 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

From an improbable to a first independent president

BYLINE: Dan Balz

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1342 words


Viewed through any conventional lens, President-elect Donald Trump's candidacy
was improbable from start to finish. Today, two things about his victory seem to
be in sharper focus: one, that Trump's victory might best be understood as the
success of the country's first independent president, and second, that the Trump
coalition may be even more uniquely his than President Obama's has turned out to
be.

Think again about how he prevailed. There are a handful of major events during a
general election that give the nominees a chance to showcase themselves, their
judgment and their vision. One is the selection of a running mate. Another is
the staging of the conventions. A third is performance in the debates. Hillary
Clinton did better than Trump on all three tests, though Trump's team believes
the debates did not fall so decisively in her favor.

Then there are the other factors that go into producing a successful candidacy.
These include resources, the operations and mechanics of campaigning, and the
skill with which candidates avoid mistakes and deal with the unexpected
setbacks.

Clinton raised more money than Trump. She had a larger number of paid staffers
on the ground in the battleground states. She ran more television ads by far. He
created needless controversies throughout the general election, while her
problems were far fewer. Only in the final days did he seem surer of himself.

In other words, Trump came out the loser on virtually every aspect of how
campaigns are usually evaluated. Yet today he is staffing his administration and
Clinton is still absorbing the brutal shock of having lost a race she believed
was hers.

Trump owes his success in part to the fact that he ran for president in an
environment that favored change over the status quo. But his luck or genius goes
beyond that. It has long been noted that the conditions have existed for an
independent candidate to run a serious campaign for president. The level of
dissatisfaction with Washington, the anxiety over the economy and the generally
sour mood about the future provided the foundation for a campaign by someone
from outside the system, who is tied to neither political party and with a
promise to shake things up.

What has stood in the way of people running as an independent is that winning
the presidency in a system that so clearly favors the two major parties is
something of a hopeless cause. That's a big reason former New York mayor Michael
Bloomberg decided not to run several times when he seriously explored the idea.

Trump took the elements of an independent candidacy - the lack of clear
ideology, the name recognition of a national celebrity and the personal fortune
needed to fund a presidential campaign - and then did what no one seemed to have
thought of before. He staged a hostile takeover of an existing major party. He
had the best of both worlds, an outsider candidacy with crosscutting ideological
appeal and the platform of a major party to wage the general election. By the
time he had finished, he had taken down two political dynasties: the Bush
dynasty in the primaries and the Clinton dynasty in the general election.

All through the campaign, one big question was whether 2016 would produce a new
electoral map. Mostly this was an outgrowth of the idea that demography is
destiny. This was shorthand for the hope among Democrats that changing
demographics - rising numbers of Hispanics in particular - along with a growing
proportion of the population with college degrees would move some states from
red to purple and others from purple to blue.

One example was the way the Clinton team saw Virginia and Colorado as two states
that had moved toward the Democrats during the Obama years and now were securely
in the party's column. They also saw an opportunity to win in Arizona this year
and thought that Georgia would soon become a true battleground. Even bright red
Texas looked more in play during the early fall.

The flip side of this "demography is destiny" concept was that, for a time, the
Republicans might have their best opportunity to change the map by focusing on a
handful of Northern industrial states, all of which have older, whiter
populations and lower percentages of college graduates.

But with the exception of Ohio, those states - Pennsylvania, Michigan and
Wisconsin - were all part of what the Atlantic's Ron Brownstein long ago dubbed
the "Blue Wall." The phrase was shorthand for states that as of 2012 had voted
Democratic in six consecutive presidential elections. Despite the demographics,
it seemed that wall would be too high an obstacle for Trump to surmount in this
election, even though his messages on trade and immigration were tailor-made for
voters in that region.

What happened was that this map of a new America came true only in part. Trump
converted the portion of the map that was suddenly hospitable to his message,
and Clinton failed to win the states that someday might lean more Democratic.
The northern map was riper for picking by Trump - barely, given the tight
results in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania - than the Southern map turned
out to be for Clinton.

For Republicans, the fact that Trump won the presidency while losing the popular
vote should remain a concern. It was the second time in five recent elections
that the GOP has gotten to the White House with fewer votes, as Clinton probably
will emerge with a clear plurality and a raw vote margin significantly higher
than Al Gore in 2000.

An analysis by Mark Gersh of the National Committee for an Effective Congress
looked at the vote in 14 swing states vs. the rest of the country. Trump won the
popular vote in those 14 states and got 142 of his electoral votes from them. In
the other 36 states, he lost the popular vote by an even larger margin. He found
the votes where he needed them. She did not.

How did he do it? Take a look at Ohio. For years, the state has been a classic
bellwether and, in the three previous elections, ground zero in the battle for
the White House. This year it went to Trump by eight points and shifted from its
historical norm by the biggest margin in more than half a century.

Mike Dawson, an expert on election statistics in Ohio, did an analysis of the
vote last week for the Columbus Dispatch. What he found was that Trump's
percentage was higher than that of Mitt Romney in 2012 in 83 of the state's 88
counties. Trump's percentage in rural southeast Ohio was the biggest since
Herbert Hoover in 1928. In the Youngstown area, once reliable Democratic turf,
Trump got 52percent of the vote, compared with 39 percent that Romney got in
2012.

Ohio was not unique. Similar patterns existed in the other Northern industrial
states. Yet in the three formerly blue states that Trump converted, Clinton
might have won had she not suffered erosion among African American voters - one
key portion of the Obama coalition - or prevented more white, college-educated
voters from moving away from her and returning home to the GOP, the group her
team saw as a key element of a new Clinton coalition.

Trump redrew the map just as he redrew the rules for running a campaign. For
those reasons alone, and despite all the controversy of his campaign and the
earlier personnel appointments, he ought not to be underestimated and/or seen
through conventional lenses.

A personal note: We said a sad but joyful farewell this week to Gwen Ifill, the
co-anchor of the "PBS NewsHour" and the moderator of PBS's "Washington Week."
She was both colleague and friend, and one could not have asked for anything
better in both. She broke barriers and earned through hard work and strength of
character every journalistic award and accolade that came her way.

She was a mentor and role model for scores of journalists - some younger, many
her contemporaries. She was the best of friends, loyal and vibrant and loving.
And she had the greatest smile imaginable. She will be long remembered, and
neither the light of her smile nor the example she provided all of us will ever
be extinguished.

dan.balz@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             817 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

'Hamilton' greets Pence with drama

BYLINE: Philip Rucker

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1185 words


Incident accentuates political fissure in U.S.

Mike Pence was elected vice president by a coalition of mostly white voters
nostalgic for what they thought of as the good old days in America and
galvanized by promises to deport millions of undocumented immigrants.

On Friday night, Pence came face-to-face with a symbol of the new America: A hit
musical called "Hamilton" that celebrates the principles of the nation's
founding but reimagines the revolutionary period with multiracial actors playing
the statesmen and the contributions of immigrants central to the story.

As he took his seat in New York's Richard Rogers Theatre, Pence heard an
impassioned, sustained boo. He sat through a performance celebrating the
country's multiculturalism. And when the show was over and he headed for the
exits, the cast was not quite finished.

"We, sir, we are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new
administration will not protect us, our planet, our children, our parents, or
defend us and uphold our inalienable rights, sir," said Brandon Victor Dixon,
the actor who played Aaron Burr, reading a statement the cast members had
drafted together.

"But we truly hope this show has inspired you to uphold our American values and
work on behalf of all of us. All of us," he continued.

The remarkable moment crystallized the cleavage wrought by a toxic presidential
campaign, in which millions of aggrieved white Americans propelled Donald Trump
and Pence to the White House and left millions of others - blacks and Latinos,
gays and lesbians, Muslims and Jews - fearful of what might become of their
country.

"It was this collision of two different Americas and two different visions and
two different sets of experiences, happening at once, and happening in a rather
dramatic way," said Peter Wehner, a former speechwriter to President George W.
Bush and a fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center.

By Saturday morning, Trump decided to respond. He could have chosen to offer
assurances that he would be a president for all Americans - that he would
respect everybody regardless of race or gender or creed.

But Trump being Trump, the president-elect punched back.

"The Theater must always be a safe and special place," Trump tweeted. "The cast
of Hamilton was very rude last night to a very good man, Mike Pence. Apologize!"

There was a certain irony to Trump's demand, considering that as a candidate he
rarely if ever apologized for the blizzard of insults he sprayed across the
country.

"Have you ever apologized? Ever? In your lifetime? Close your eyes, think back
to Baby Donald ... ," Jimmy Fallon asked Trump on NBC's "Tonight Show" in
September 2015.

"I fully think apologizing is a great thing, but you have to be wrong," Trump
replied.

He added, with a laugh, "I will absolutely apologize sometime in the hopefully
distant future, if I'm ever wrong."

Trump did apologize in October for the comments he made in 2005 to "Access
Hollywood" host Billy Bush bragging about having grabbed women by their
genitals.

As a candidate, Trump set off hand grenades with provocative tweets at moments
of his choosing to attract the attention of the news media.

Regardless of whether this was Trump's intent Saturday morning, his shot at the
"Hamilton" cast served to distract from a negative news story that broke late
Friday: The president-elect had agreed to a $25 million settlement to end the
fraud cases pending against Trump University, his defunct real estate seminar
program.

Trump tweeted Saturday that he had settled the case because he had to "focus on
our country."

"The ONLY bad thing about winning the Presidency is that I did not have the time
to go through a long but winning trial on Trump U. Too bad!" Trump tweeted,
although there was no clear indication whether he would have prevailed had the
case gone to trial.

In many ways, "Hamilton" has become a touchstone in America's ongoing culture
wars. Hillary Clinton embraced the musical - its creator, Lin-Manuel Miranda,
openly supported her candidacy - and recited its lyrics in her speech accepting
the Democratic presidential nomination.

Talk about "Hamilton" is different in Trump's orbit, however. Last Thursday at
Trump Tower, when a reporter asked Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) how long he
intended to be in New York, Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway interjected:
"Have you seen 'Hamilton'?"

"I have not," replied Sessions, who the next day would be announced as Trump's
attorney general nominee.

Trump's handling of the Pence incident is in keeping with how he confronted past
cultural controversies and could presage how he will act in the White House.
Although he is a billionaire who lives in a three-story apartment on Fifth
Avenue in Manhattan, he long has felt excluded and shunned by the New York and
Washington elite. Trump is sensitive to perceived snubs - and has mastered the
art of snapping back at criticism from coastal liberals as a means of
ingratiating himself with his middle-America base.

On Saturday, Trump's defenders rushed to condemn the "Hamilton" cast and voice
outrage at perceived disrespect. His supporters started a "#BoycottHamilton"
campaign on Twitter - although "Hamilton" tickets are such a hot commodity that
the production is sold out well into next year.

"The arrogance and hostility of the Hamilton cast to the Vice President elect (a
guest at the theater) is a reminder the left still fights," tweeted former House
speaker Newt Gingrich, an informal Trump adviser.

Gingrich went on to liken Trump to former British prime minister Margaret
Thatcher: "Lady Thatcher aroused the same bitter hostility because like Trump
she was a threat to the establishment's claim to moral superiority."

Presidential historian Robert Dallek said Trump's Twitter retort was a striking
act of divisiveness by an incoming president struggling to heal the nation after
a bitter election.

"Instead of doing what a Franklin Roosevelt or a John Kennedy or a Lyndon
Johnson would have done, he's exacerbating the differences by saying they owe
him an apology," Dallek said. "For what? What were they asking for? They were
asking for a kind of regard for minorities. It wasn't as if they were asking him
to give up the office."

Said Wehner: "He's not the sole reason that the campaign was ugly and divisive,
but he's the main reason it was.... And now, having won, it falls on him to bind
up the wounds. Even if you feel what happened by the cast of 'Hamilton' was
wrong or inappropriate or indecorous, he's the leader of the country."

Although Trump won a clear majority in the electoral college, he garnered just
47 percent of the popular vote - more than 1 million votes short of Clinton,
with millions of votes still to be counted in primarily liberal states.

"I don't think Trump understands that beneath the surface of his electoral
college victory, there's a lot of people who simply are not willing to accept
the rhetoric of his campaign as the language of government," veteran Democratic
strategist Tad Devine said.

"Trump has opened Pandora's box," he added, "and we're looking for hope at the
bottom."

philip.rucker@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             818 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Trump's fake-news presidency

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 829 words


ABuzzFeed analysis   last week concluded that fake news stories about the
election generated more engagement on Facebook than the top election stories
from 19 major news outlets - combined.

And that's not the half of it.

Not only is fake news getting more attention than actual news, but also the
leading purveyor of fake news in the United States is now the president-elect.

For 17 months, Donald Trump treated the nation to a series of outlandish
promises. He'll eliminate the $19 trillion federal debt in eight years. He'll
balance the budget without cutting Social Security, Medicare and other
entitlements. He'll bring back lost coal jobs. He'll make Mexico pay for a
border wall. He'll deport 12 million illegal immigrants while growing the
economy by at least 6 percent.

Now Trump is the president-elect, and it's time to deliver on the impossible. No
wonder his transition is racked with chaos and infighting. Scripture tells us
you can't serve both God and mammon. Yet Trump proposes to be served by both
Reince Priebus and Stephen K.  Bannon - a chief of staff who is a paragon of the
establishment and a top adviser who is a leading voice for white supremacists.
The array of impossible promises and false claims has all the appearances of a
Ponzi scheme, with the $18 trillion U.S. economy in the balance. Bernie Madoff's
scheme lost only $50 billion.

Early indications are that Trump plans to continue to fake it. On Thursday
night, he tweeted that as a result of his work with Ford, the automaker would
keep a plant that makes Lincoln SUVs "in Kentucky - no [sic] Mexico."

But Ford had never planned to close the Kentucky plant. It was merely planning
to make more Ford Escapes instead of Lincolns there - a change that would have
resulted in no job losses. Ford is proceeding with its previously announced plan
to build a new factory in Mexico.

We see the Ponzi scheme unraveling in the substance of what Trump is proposing,
too. One of Trump's surrogates, Carl Higbie, caused a furor  last week by saying
the infamous internment of U.S. citizens and noncitizens of Japanese descent
during World War II provided a legal "precedent" for Trump's plan to create a
Muslim registry. But for all the outrage Higbie caused, the actual policy being
floated - reinstatement of a George W. Bush-era policy - is far more modest than
Trump's proposed ban on Muslim immigration and threat to register American
Muslims.

This is the best-case scenario - that Trump's fake-news presidential campaign
really was all a con. Preposterous promises give way to modest proposals. This
would disappoint his supporters, but perhaps save the country.

Trump's vow that Carrier would reverse its plans to move a factory to Mexico and
eliminate 1,400 U.S. jobs by 2019? Carrier is continuing with its plans.

Trump's promise to negotiate the release of all American prisoners in Iran
before taking office? He'd better hurry: Iran continues to apprehend and
imprison American dual nationals.

Trump's bold threats to appoint a "killer" ambassador to Japan and to force
Japan to pay for U.S. military protection? Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,
after visiting Trump on Thursday, thinks otherwise; he said he has "great
confidence" in Trump.

Many of Trump's absurd promises will come due soon. Trump spoke of abolishing
the Education Department and the Environmental Protection Agency, said he would
rebuild American roads for one-third the current price, monitor mosques,
prosecute Hillary Clinton and never take a vacation. He said he would spend no
money on space exploration before infrastructure is repaired, would "bomb the
s--- out of" the Islamic State, kill the relatives of terrorists, shut down
parts of the Internet, reinstate waterboarding, dramatically increase tariffs,
eliminate Wall Street reforms, cut the budget 20 percent and end birthright
citizenship.

No surprise that the transition is chaotic. Lobbyists are in, then out. Chris
Christie and Mike Rogers are in, then out. Frank Gaffney is in, or perhaps not.
Jared Kushner is settling personal vendettas. Eliot Cohen withdraws his
cooperation, predicting "ugly" things ahead.

And Trump says everything is proceeding "so smoothly."

The British are fuming because at least nine foreign leaders, including Egypt's,
reached Trump before theirs. Trump plays cat-and-mouse with the national press
corps and continues to tweet like an Internet troll, complete with bad spelling.
His advisers give contradictory accounts about personnel decisions. Qualified
candidates are rejected in favor of loyalists. His choice for national security
adviser is aligned with Vladimir Putin.

You can't make this stuff up. Or maybe you can. Paul Horner, the leading
purveyor of fake news on Facebook, told The Post's Caitlin Dewey he was stunned
by Americans' gullibility: "I mean, that's how Trump got elected. He just said
whatever he wanted, and people believed everything."

But surely you can't fool all the people all the time.

Twitter: @Milbank

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             819 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

A clone, a crusader or a clean slate?

BYLINE: Philip Rucker

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1341 words


A mix of signals among possible candidates

for secretary of state

The secretary of state is the star of most every cabinet, and when
President-elect Donald Trump makes his selection he will signal the kind of
posture he intends to present to the world.

Does he want the nation's top diplomat to be a Trumpian clone? That would be
Rudolph W. Giuliani, the garrulous former New York mayor who sprays rhetorical
fire at Islamic terrorists but whose business background is rife with potential
conflicts of interest.

Or an ideological crusader? A leading candidate is John Bolton, an architect and
enabler of the Iraq War that Trump has so often condemned, whose hawkishness and
combative nature made him a controversial U.S. ambassador to the United Nations.

What about a clean slate, someone who would see the world with fresh eyes and
promote Trump's vision? That's where Nikki Haley figures in, the governor of
South Carolina who lacks traditional foreign policy chops but is regarded as a
quick study.

How about a central-casting statesman? Enter Mitt Romney, the 2012 GOP
presidential nominee who led the Republican resistance to Trump's candidacy and
became a well-worn punching bag for him, but who could be a consensus choice and
offer reassurance to anxious U.S. allies.

There may also be other contenders for the job, which is fourth in line to the
presidency ahead of any other cabinet official. One such prospect, Senate
Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), has suggested in
recent days that he does not have much of a footing.

"We have a president who, let's face it, approaches things with an exclamation
point," Corker said Thursday on MSNBC. "I think what might be good is someone to
complement that and be able to pragmatically go about making things happen."

For other national security positions, Trump has tapped trusted but
controversial loyalists. Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), who has a history of
racially charged statements, is his nominee for attorney general, while retired
Army lieutenant general Michael T. Flynn, who has come under fire for incendiary
remarks about Muslims and a relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin,
will be Trump's national security adviser.

Whether Trump follows this pattern or takes a different course in choosing his
secretary of state, his aides are offering few clues, other than to say that the
president-elect is keeping an open mind.

"He's meeting with some of the best and the brightest and the most qualified
people, not only to fill specific roles within the administration but also to
give advice and counsel on the policies and structure of how to best put
together a team and enact a successful agenda," transition spokesman Jason
Miller said Friday.

Earlier this week, Giuliani and Bolton were described by people close to the
transition as the leading candidates.

Giuliani, 72, was Trump's campaign-trail sidekick, delivering fiery speeches
introducing him. Giuliani earned his longtime friend's admiration by ripping
into Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton with gusto, offering biting critiques of
her physical health as well as what he described as her criminal record as
secretary of state.

Early on, Giuliani was seen as a shoo-in for a top administration position, and
he has openly campaigned for the state department. But news reports this week
about Giuliani's extensive global business dealings in his decade-and-a-half out
of public office raised red flags, all but ensuring a messy confirmation battle.

Giuliani has made tens of millions of dollars as a consultant and speaker to
foreign governments and shadowy international groups - an ironic juxtaposition
to Clinton, whom Trump castigated for giving paid speeches and accepting foreign
contributions to the Clinton Foundation.

Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, has
spoken out against Giuliani, as well as Bolton, and signaled that he might
filibuster either man's nomination.

Bolton, 67, supported Trump's candidacy, both with an outside super PAC and by
appearing frequently on Fox News. In the last three Republican administrations,
Bolton established himself as a hawkish voice on the far right - especially on
the Iraq War - and espoused views out of step with Trump's.

As undersecretary for arms control in George W. Bush's State Department, Bolton
was a close ally of Vice President Richard B. Cheney - so much so that Secretary
of State Colin L. Powell came to regard him as Cheney's mole. When Bush
nominated Bolton to be U.N. ambassador, he drew heat in the Senate, forcing the
president to install him through a recess appointment.

Romney, by contrast, could be seen by senators as a consensus alternative to the
more polarizing Giuliani and Bolton. He plans to meet with Trump on Saturday at
the president-elect's golf club in Bedminster, N.J., for what has been billed as
a general discussion about the transition. People close to Trump cautioned that
he may not necessarily extend a job offer to Romney - and even if he does, it is
unclear whether Romney would accept.

Since his presidential campaign, Romney, 69, is said to have thought about
serving as secretary of state, going so far as to consider how he might
reorganize the notoriously inefficient Foggy Bottom headquarters and reimagine
America's role in the world.

One of the more intriguing prospects is Haley, 44, a Republican star who has
left little mark in the foreign-affairs community.

Asked to describe her qualifications and worldview, some experts were at a loss
for words. Robert Zoellick, a former World Bank president who had been in line
to serve as Romney's secretary of state, joked in an email: "Am in the Canadian
arctic viewing polar bears with my wife! Connectivity weak."

Strobe Talbott, president of the Brookings Institution and a former deputy
secretary of state under President Bill Clinton, said: "Wow. Wish I could help.
I really don't know about her background in the field and hesitate to
speculate."

Trump allies argued that what Haley lacks in traditional experience she makes up
for in other attributes. For one, Trump considers the well-prepared elites who
have run the nation's foreign affairs responsible for what he sees as decades of
failure.

"There is a great value in fresh eyes," said South Carolina Lt. Gov. Henry
McMaster, who chaired Trump's primary campaign in the state and would ascend to
the governorship should Haley join the Cabinet. "She's a very quick study, and I
think she has a good grip on the points and understands well Mr. Trump's vision
and his goals."

But Michael McFaul, a former U.S. ambassador to Russia under President Obama,
dismissed the notion that a secretary of state with little expertise could
succeed.

"Just as you wouldn't want someone with no training or previous experience to
operate on your body, fix your car, or repair your computer, you should not want
completely inexperienced people to protect our country and defend our national
interests," McFaul wrote in an email. "Treating these jobs as ones for amateurs
is amateurish and dangerous."

Haley would bring diversity to Trump's Cabinet. She would make history as the
first Indian American secretary of state - and it is not lost on Trump that his
candidacy garnered a passionate following among some Indian Americans as well as
in India.

Haley led a 10-day state economic development trip to India in 2014, and the
governor has taken similar trips to England, France, Germany and Japan.

"There's a lot of snooty talk about people being unqualified to be secretary of
state, but being a governor or an elected politician is actually pretty good
preparation for being a diplomat," said Kori Schake, a fellow at Stanford
University's Hoover Institution and a former Bush national security official who
opposed Trump.

Schake added, "At a time in which many people in the United States and outside
it are worried about tolerance of not just the Trump administration but the
American voters who elected Trump, [Haley] would send a welcoming signal."

philip.rucker@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             820 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Activists question Sessions's commitment to civil rights

BYLINE: Sari Horwitz;Ellen Nakashima

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1338 words


Attorney general choice was once denied a post as a federal judge

In December, after presidential candidate Donald Trump called for a "total and
complete shutdown of Muslims" entering the country, Sen. Patrick J. Leahy
(D-Vt.) introduced a "sense of the Senate" resolution affirming that the United
States must not bar people from the country because of their religion.

Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) - a member of the Judiciary Committee, along with
Leahy - voted against the resolution and delivered a 30-minute oration urging
fellow senators to join him. The resolution, he warned, would make global
migration to the United States a "human right."

It would mean, he said, that the United States "could not favor for entry the
moderate Muslim cleric over the radical Muslim cleric." Or that a foreign cleric
overseas could demand a tourist visa to deliver a sermon denouncing the U.S.
Constitution "and claim religious discrimination" if it was not approved.

"I think,'' Sessions said, "it is a dangerous step."

Although the measure passed the committee, it failed in the full Senate.

President-elect Trump has chosen Sessions, who has served in the Senate for 20
years, to be the next attorney general - a position that will give him the
platform to shape civil rights policy and to defend the constitutionality of any
policies that effectively restrict Muslim immigration, legal and civil liberties
experts warn.

Sessions has also been dogged with accusations of racism, which sank his
nomination to become a federal judge after President Ronald Reagan nominated him
30 years ago. At his Senate hearing, Sessions said he was not a racist, but
several Justice Department employees testified that he had used racist language.

Sen. Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa), chairman of the Judiciary Committee, lauded
Sessions in a statement Friday as a "respected member and former ranking member"
of the committee who has worked with Democrats on major legislation. Grassley
predicted that the committee will approve his nomination for consideration by
the full Senate.

"He knows the Justice Department as a former U.S. attorney, which would serve
him very well in this position," Grassley said.

The appointment of Sessions is expected to bring sweeping changes to the way the
Justice Department operated under Loretta E. Lynch and her predecessor, Eric H.
Holder Jr., who, when he was nominated to be the first black attorney general,
pledged to make rebuilding the Civil Rights Division his top priority.

Several former Justice officials and Democratic lawmakers predicted that
Sessions would reverse the emphasis on civil rights and criminal-justice reform
that Holder put in place.

"From his time as U.S. attorney through his service on the Judiciary Committee,
he has left serious doubts about whether he would faithfully enforce civil
rights laws as attorney general," former Justice Department spokesman Matthew
Miller said. "The Civil Rights Division was gutted during the last Republican
administration, and the burden of proof is on Senator Sessions to show that he
would not follow that same path."

Sessions voted to confirm Holder as attorney general, but he voted against
Lynch, citing her statements that President Obama's executive actions on
immigration passed legal and constitutional muster. Sessions and other
Republicans considered those measures to be presidential overreach.

"Ms. Lynch has said flat-out that she supports those policies and is committed
to defending them in court," Sessions said at the time. "We do not have to
confirm someone to the highest law enforcement position in America if that
someone is publicly committed to denigrating Congress."

Obama's Justice Department stopped defending the Defense of Marriage Act and
successfully argued the historic same-sex marriage case last year before the
Supreme Court. Sessions has opposed same-sex marriage and has a zero rating from
the nation's largest LGBT advocacy group, the Human Rights Campaign.

Ibrahim Hooper, spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations,
expressed dismay about Session's nomination. It only adds "to a growing list" of
nominees "with troubling pasts, and troubling histories of bigotry and
intolerance," Hooper said.

George J. Terwilliger III, who served as deputy attorney general under President
George H.W. Bush and has known Sessions for nearly three decades, disputed the
characterization. "I can say unequivocally there's not a racist bone in the
guy's body," he said.

Democratic lawmakers on Friday promised a tough and thorough vetting and
confirmation process.

"I know Senator Sessions, and we work out in the gym, but the fact that he is a
senator does not absolve him from answering tough questions in the confirmation
process," said Sen. Charles E. Schumer of New York, the incoming minority
leader.

"Given some of his past statements and his staunch opposition to immigration
reform, I am very concerned about what he would do with the Civil Rights
Division at the Department of Justice, and I want to hear what he has to say,"
Schumer said.

A former aide to Sessions said that, as attorney general, he will make national
security and fighting terrorism a top priority.

"Sessions is of the mind that the most essential duty of government is to
protect its citizens," the aide said. Sessions opposed closing the Guantanamo
Bay prison in Cuba and bringing terrorist detainees to the United States for
trial in federal courts. "He felt it would needlessly eliminate an important
tool in fighting terrorism and would needlessly put our citizens at risk," the
aide said.

Jefferson Beauregard "Jeff" Sessions, 69, who was born in Selma, Ala., began his
career as a prosecutor in 1975 in the U.S. attorney's office in the Southern
District of Alabama. In 1981, President Reagan nominated him to be the U.S.
attorney for that district, where he served for 12 years.

In 1986, Reagan nominated him to be a judge for the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of Alabama. But at his Senate confirmation hearing, Justice
Department lawyers who had worked with him testified that he had made racist and
other incendiary statements. One of those lawyers, J. Gerald Hebert - now the
director of the voting rights and redistricting program at the Campaign Legal
Center - said that Sessions had called the NAACP and the American Civil
Liberties Union "un-American" and "Communist-inspired."

Thomas Figures testified that Sessions said he had thought the Ku Klux Klan was
"okay until I found out they smoked pot." Sessions later apologized for the
comment, saying he was not serious when he said it.

Witnesses also testified that after disagreement between a black and a white
member of his staff, Sessions admonished the black staffer to be "careful what
he said to white folks," and once referred to a black lawyer in the U.S.
attorney's office as "boy."

Sessions denied the allegations, but he was not confirmed.

Aides to Session said that he was not insensitive to African Americans and
pointed out that as a young Republican at Huntingdon College in the 1966,
Sessions campaigned against segregationist candidates such as Lurleen Wallace,
who was running for governor to sustain the policies of her husband,
then-governor George Wallace, a staunch opponent of desegregation. George
Wallace was banned by state law from serving consecutive terms.

In 1994, Sessions was elected attorney general of Alabama. He was elected to the
U.S. Senate two years later.

Sessions, who was the first senator to endorse Trump, in February, first met him
in 2005 when Trump was criticizing the United Nations' plan for a $1.2 billion
renovation of its New York City headquarters. Sessions invited him to testify
about it before a Senate subcommittee hearing. After the hearing, they were out
of touch until last year, when they had a phone call about immigration policy
and Trump tried to get Sessions's endorsement.

sari.horwitz@washpost.com

ellen.nakashima@washpost.com

Mike DeBonis, Robert Costa, Matt Zapotosky and Julie Tate contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             821 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Brexit, Trump add up to complicated opportunity

BYLINE: Griff Witte;Karla Adam

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 957 words

DATELINE: LONDON


LONDON - The man who will soon occupy the Oval Office calls himself Mr. Brexit.

He was perhaps the biggest foreign cheerleader for Britain's departure from the
European Union before the country voted, and he celebrated on Scottish soil when
it opted to get out.

He says he wants to do a trade deal with Britain, and he invited a British
politician to be his first international visitor upon winning the White House.

In many ways, Donald Trump's victory in the U.S. presidential election would
seem to be a boon for Britain as it prepares to file its divorce papers with the
E.U.

Boris Johnson, Britain's voluble foreign secretary, said as much, calling it "a
moment of opportunity."

But rather than grease Britain's exit path, Trump's elevation to the peak of
U.S. power could make this country's already tortuous road to Brexit even
rougher.

Reactions such as Johnson's, said Queen Mary University of London politics
professor Tim Bale, are merely "a front" that masks a deep anxiety among British
officials over whether Trump can be trusted.

"I think there's an awful lot of nervousness in government and more generally,
mostly down to the unpredictability of the guy," Bale said.

That worry is being felt worldwide.

But in London, it is especially acute.

Since World War II, Britain has positioned itself as the bridge linking the
United States to Europe, with sturdy ties on either side. But now both ends of
that connection are looking creaky.

Britain's June 23 decision to exit the E.U. has set the stage for years of
complex - and potentially acrimonious - breakup negotiations in which most of
the leverage lies with Europe. The continent's leaders have taken a hard line in
the months since the vote, insisting that Britain will not get the sweetheart
deal it has sought.

Brexit advocates have played down any concerns over strained relations with
Europe, insisting that Britain outside the E.U. has the chance to reassert
itself in the wider world - particularly in the Anglosphere with countries such
as Canada, Australia and, most important, the United States.

President Obama delivered a blow to that theory in the spring when he urged
Britons to vote against an exit and said the country would need to go "to the
back of the queue" in negotiating a free-trade deal with the United States.
Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton took a similar tack.

Trump has adopted a very different approach, insisting that Britain will be
prioritized. Johnson noted Monday that Trump is "a dealmaker, and I think that
could be a good thing for Britain."

But Britain may not like the deal that Trump has to offer.

The billionaire real estate developer railed against trade deals during the
presidential campaign, insisting that the exchanges are zero-sum and always
favor the other side at the expense of the United States. "We have to stop these
countries from stealing our companies and our jobs," he said repeatedly.

Trump has pledged to reverse that dynamic as president and to reduce the U.S.
trade deficit. Britain now has a trade surplus with the United States, making it
vulnerable to protectionist efforts by Trump to limit British imports at
precisely the moment when Britain needs to start selling more to the world
beyond Europe.

Eric Kaufman, professor of politics at Birkbeck College, said there is likely to
be "an affinity" between Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May because
both leaders' countries have experienced populist revolts against the global
order.

But while May on Monday said she wants Britain to be "the true global champion
of free trade in this new modern world," Trump's threats to tear up existing
trade agreements probably would complicate that task.

"The worry would be if the rules-based international trading order is weakened
by Trump, that's not great for Britain trying to champion a free trading order
outside of the E.U.," Kaufman said.

There is also the question of timing: Even if Trump wants to do a quick trade
deal with Britain, the latter is not well-positioned because the negotiations to
come with the E.U. are already more than it can bear.

A recent memo by a government contractor assessing Britain's progress in
developing its Brexit strategy concluded that the government still lacks an
overall plan five months after the vote and that it may need another six months
to devise one.

Indeed, Britain's response to Trump - which has been notably warmer than that of
other European powers - may be less about any realistic hopes of a deal and more
about attempting to gain leverage with Europe.

The response, Bale said, is "consistent with a game we have played for decades
where the U.K. suggests to the Europeans we have a unique insight into the
American mind, and we suggest to the Americans we are a useful bridge to
Europe."

In at least one sense, that may continue to be true in the Trump era. Trump,
whose mother was Scottish and who owns Scottish golf courses, appears to have a
genuine affection for Britain.

"The traditional white Anglo world," said London School of Economics professor
Tony Travers, is one that Trump and his backers "see as broadly their kind of
world."

And at least with certain British politicians, the affinity is apparent.
Longtime Brexit champion Nigel Farage campaigned for Trump in the United States
and was the first foreign politician invited to meet with the president-elect at
Trump Tower.

Britain's actual leader, May, has not received as favorable a reception.
According to a Times of London account of their 10-minute call, he was not
exactly insistent in his invitation for her to follow Farage up the elevator to
his Trump Tower suite.

"If you travel to the U.S.," he reportedly said, "you should let me know."

griff.witte@washpost.com

karla.adam@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             822 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

An evangelical for Ms. Clinton

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 156 words


Regarding the Nov. 17 Metro article "Evangelicals put their faith in Trump":

I am an evangelical Christian who voted for Democratic presidential nominee
Hillary Clinton. Why? As the Bible tells us, "ye will know them by their acts."
Ms. Clinton is a Methodist girl raised up in her church. She listened to the
guidance of the Word, was active in her youth group and expressed her
Christianity by doing good for others. She has worked for children, the poor and
those less fortunate all of her life.

As an American (and Southern Baptist), I believe in the separation of church and
state and believe the government (federal or state) has no business controlling
women's reproductive health. As for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
people, Jesus said there is room for all at the table. I take that to heart. The
United States is great because it is inclusive. Christianity is great because it
is open to all.

Jean A. Anspaugh , Fairfax

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             823 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

After Trump's win, a D.C. rabbi who couldn't stay silent shows congregants how
to take their next steps

BYLINE: Julie Zauzmer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 780 words


He couldn't even get through his first sentence before the tears began.

"I woke up Wednesday morning thinking about the legendary sign" above the
synagogue of a famous rabbi, he started. He couldn't continue. The congregants
packed into the unusually crowded sanctuary, three days after the presidential
election, held their breaths for three long seconds. He inhaled. The sign read:
"Jews don't despair," he said.

Rabbi Daniel G. Zemel knows there is a lot he could despair about.

As Reform Jews, who voted overwhelmingly for Hillary Clinton, and as residents
of the District, where more than 92 percent did so, Zemel's congregants at
Temple Micah were almost uniformly dismayed by Donald Trump's election.

As many grew shaken and scared in the days following the election, they flocked
to Zemel's Shabbat service for solace, strength or simply togetherness.

"We have just lived through a bruising political season where the results feel
to many of us like a repudiation of the values that we believe this country was
founded on and embraced. ... Tolerance. An open mind. A spirit of generosity. A
belief that we are all created in God's image," he said in his sermon. "And for
me, there's always been something so confluent about my American beliefs and my
Jewish beliefs. They reinforce each other."

Addressing the election so openly the Friday after Election Day was a rare
choice for Zemel. During the High Holy Day season a little more than a month
ago, when rabbis have their biggest audiences of the year, some rabbis used
their pulpits to speak against Trump. But the majority decided not to talk about
politics, and Zemel was strongly in that camp.

"For me to tell people what their values are about the election, it would be so
'preaching to the choir' in the most unnecessary way," he said. He steered clear
of current events altogether on Yom Kippur, giving a sermon about the Book of
Job.

Now, Zemel expects he'll be talking a lot about what's happening in America for
the foreseeable future. The emails have been pouring in from his bereft
congregants: What can we do next?

"I want to learn about civil disobedience. I think we're at a point where we may
have to," Zemel said.

He's doing his reading - Martin Luther King Jr.'s letter from the Birmingham
jail, Henry David Thoreau's "Civil Disobedience," the biblical story of the
midwives who defied Pharaoh's order to kill the babies of Jewish slaves.

"If they're asking Muslims to register, of course we'll get every Jew in America
to register," he said. "If they're going to start deporting people, we'll make
Temple Micah into a sanctuary."

He also wants to further understanding between liberals and conservatives. He
wants to convene very personal conversations - maybe one-on-one, maybe in small
groups - between members of Temple Micah and conservative counterparts, perhaps
Trump voters, whom they wouldn't otherwise meet. He might ask speakers from
diverse viewpoints to address the synagogue.

Bridging disagreement will be his theme in his next Shabbat sermon, the night
after Thanksgiving. He will talk about Hillel and Shammai, historic rabbis known
for their disagreements with each other.

The Talmud notes that their disputes were "arguments for the sake of heaven,"
Zemel said - and that descendants of their two rival schools tended to marry
each other.

"The divide in this country is such that Democrats and Republicans no longer
marry each other," he said. "An argument for the sake of heaven means you
understand the other person's argument, what the other person has at stake in
making the point they're making. I think that's something we have lost."

But on the political front, he said he plans to lead his congregation in direct
action against the Trump administration if Trump carries out some of his
campaign proposals that the Micah community finds most abhorrent, like a
registry of Muslims.

"We simply have to communicate whatever we can and take action - that this is
not the American way," Zemel said.

"We all have to be ready to pounce on every action which is totally, totally,
totally objectionable to us. We can't be seduced and think, 'Maybe we can let
this one slide; this will be okay.' "

In his sermon after the election, through his tears, Zemel tried to urge
resilience. "We will console one another, and then we will light a candle.
That's what we do," he said.

"Jews mourn by lighting a candle. When our world is darkened, we light a candle.
If our world became darker, we would light another candle. And then we would
light another candle. And we would return to the street."

He asked the congregation to rise soon after, and together they sang "America
the Beautiful."

julie.zauzmer@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             824 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Gun control's silver bullets

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 447 words


GUN CONTROL was a central tenet of Hillary Clinton's unsuccessful campaign for
president, but it would be wrong to interpret the results of the Nov. 8
elections as a slam dunk for those opposed to sensible gun laws. Three states
approved ballot initiatives for strengthened gun-control measures despite stiff
opposition from the national gun lobby. In statehouse races across the country,
gun-control advocates had some success in helping to oust longtime gun-safety
opponents. There should be no illusions about the difficulty that lies ahead in
sustaining and furthering reform, but it is encouraging to see these signs of an
increasingly robust grass-roots movement.

In a year that saw a record number of ballot initiatives, voters in Nevada,
California and Washington state gave their approval to strengthened gun-safety
measures while an effort in Maine to expand universal background checks failed
narrowly. Nevada's move to expand background checks to private gun sales and
transfers was seen as particularly significant since the National Rifle
Association invested heavily there with an aggressive campaign that included
opposition from the governor and attorney general. According to Everytown for
Gun Safety and Moms Demand Action, the win in Nevada means that nearly half of
Americans will now live in states that have closed the background-check
loophole. Eight states did so in the years that followed the slaughter of
schoolchildren at Sandy Hook.

Other bright spots: Sen. Patrick J. Toomey (Pa.) showed that Republicans who
support gun control can still win reelection while Sen. Kelly Ayotte (N.H.)
proved that Republicans who oppose gun safety can lose. And in Oregon every
elected leader up for election who voted "yes" on the state's 2015
background-check bill won reelection. Of course, factors other than gun issues
played a role in these elections, and the NRA, which spent a record $30 million,
had its victories. But even its early and aggressive backing of Donald Trump was
offset by the fact that the most aggressively pro-gun-control presidential
candidate in history won the popular vote.

That, of course, is not likely to stop the gun lobby from wanting to cash in on
its investment by pushing extreme measures such as repealing the federal
gun-free school zone law, establishing national reciprocity for concealed-carry
permits, gutting efforts to crack down on illegal gun trafficking and more. Gun
laws in the District unfortunately will be particularly vulnerable. So let's
hope that the mettle that gun-  control advocates have shown in recent years in
stopping NRA-backed bills in statehouses will prove successful in meeting the
coming challenges.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             825 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                Suburban Edition

The truth lies with Alex Jones

BYLINE: Manuel Roig-Franzia

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 2327 words


Last December, amid the jumbled Republican presidential nomination scrum, Donald
Trump carved out half an hour for a live video interview with a volcanic Austin
radio and web-streaming host who broadcasts from a semi-secret location dubbed
"The Central Texas Command Center and the Heart of the Resistance."

Alex Jones, America's foremost purveyor of outlandish conspiracy theories, was
in a buoyant mood that day. He'd had Matt Drudge, the influential conservative
news aggregator, on recently. But this was much bigger.

Trump wasted no time signaling that his mind-set aligned with the host's. Trump
said he wouldn't apologize for asserting that large numbers of Muslims in New
Jersey celebrated the collapse of the twin towers in the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, a claim that fact-checkers have repeatedly refuted.

"People like you and I can't do that so easily," the New York developer,
speaking from his office in Trump Tower, said. He would later call Jones "a nice
guy."

The December interview would reverberate into the general election as Hillary
Clinton tried to use it to paint Trump as an irresponsible crackpot associating
with an irresponsible crackpot. It also pushed Jones, who operates the websites
Infowars.com and Prisonplanet.com, from the realm of niche showman into the
mainstream national dialogue. The man who said that the Newtown, Conn., school
shooting was a "hoax" involving child actors and claimed that elements of the
U.S. government were responsible for bombing the Oklahoma City federal building
and for the 9/11 attacks had been granted an enormous new audience.

"I think Alex Jones may be the single most important voice in the alternative
conservative media," says Roger Stone, the Nixon-era political trickster who
orchestrated Trump's appearance on the show.

Early last week, Trump seemed to confirm Jones's status. Jones says Trump called
to promise he would return to the program to thank the Infowars audience, an
extraordinary gesture for an incoming president whose schedule is packed with
calls from world leaders and the enormous task of overseeing the transition. The
president-elect's team hasn't confirmed that the conversation took place.

Stone, who takes credit for persuading Jones to support Trump, envisions the Web
impresario as a potent force during the new administration, a bridge between the
presidency and a restless, skeptical slice of the population. "He's a valuable
asset - somebody has to rally the people around President Trump's legislative
program," Stone says.

Jones, who did not respond to interview requests, got his start hosting a
public-access television program in Austin, where he grew up, the son of a
dentist. He speaks cryptically about his family, fostering an aura of mystique
when he says that his father's patients included CIA officials who were so
important that they had to be guarded while under anesthesia.

"I had some family that did some things for the CIA," he once said.

In Austin, a city with a distinct embrace of quirky characters, Jones's
histrionics could sometimes be a source of college-keg-party amusement. He
became pals with the Austin-based filmmaker Richard Linklater, who cast him in
small roles in the 2001 film "Waking Life" and in "A Scanner Darkly" in 2006.

"He's really smart. ... I like the way he thinks," Linklater said with a smile
during a Huffington Post Live interview to promote his 2013 film, "Before
Midnight."

But Linklater added that he didn't share some of his friend's more controversial
views: "I don't agree 9/11 was an inside job." On the couch next to Linklater, a
shocked look crossed the face of the film's co-star, Julie Delpy. (Linklater
declined to be interviewed for this article.)

Jones is a thickly constructed 42-year-old with bright piercing eyes and a
retreating hairline. His Facebook bio describes him as "ruggedly handsome." His
rhetorical style resembles an avalanche. He makes assertions with the scantiest
of proof, but delivered with utter certainty. His monologues explode with
emotion. Some days he appears to be sobbing, holding his face in his hands. Then
he's making deep, guttural growling noises. Then he's howling.

The Internet is thick with video clips labeled "Alex Jones Epic RANT!!" or "Alex
Jones unleashed!" or "Epic meltdown." The more he screams, the more they listen.

It's as if he's one-upping himself in real time. During one show he went off on
Clinton, calling her "a witch." But he didn't stop there. She is "evil," he
said, "a whore of Babylon drunk on the blood of the saints."

He stuck out his tongue and unloosed a menacing yowl.

"So demonic," he said.

Jones is also a filmmaker , having produced a stream of long, densely scripted,
often thinly supported documentaries with titles such as "Terrorstorm: A History
of Government-Sponsored Terrorism," "9/11: The Road to Tyranny," and "Fall of
the Republic: The Presidency of Barack H. Obama." In his films, as well as his
hours-long radio and Web broadcasts, Jones frequently returns to his core theme
of the threat posed by shadowy, malevolent, elite "globalists" bent on worldwide
domination.

The United Nations, he claims, intends to release plagues that will kill off 80
percent of the people in the world. The remaining population, he says, will be
herded into crowded cities where they will be enslaved by the elite, turning the
Earth into a "prison planet." A smaller population would mean the elite would
have less competition for mysterious "life extension technologies."

The recurrent message is that these powerful interests foment insecurity to then
foist policy changes on an addled public. Hence, the shooting at Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown, in Jones's telling, was confected to thrust gun
control on America.

"Sandy Hook is a completely fake, with actors, in my view, manufactured. I
couldn't believe it at first," Jones said on one program. "I know they had
actors there clearly. But I thought they killed some real kids."

Other tragedies, such as the Boston Marathon bombing, he says, were "false
flags" employing CIA-manipulated dupes who take the blame. The raid on Osama bin
Laden's compound was faked because the terrorist leader was a CIA asset. The
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives was behind the Oklahoma City
federal building bombing. It goes on. And on. And on.

In the mid-1990s, at the outset of Jones's career, he was befriended by Ted
Anderson, the owner of Midas Resources, a Minnesota gold coins and precious
metals firm that sponsored his show. In an interview, Anderson recalls the young
Jones as having "a lot of drive. Not a terribly big audience. At that time it
was just raw energy. He's more refined now."

Anderson was the founder of "The Ron Paul Air Corps," a group of pilots who flew
planes pulling banners promoting the "Ron Paul Revolution" during the former
congressman's 2008 presidential run. Paul, who has appeared frequently on
Jones's program, did not respond to an interview request.

Now, another Anderson company, Genesis Communications Network, syndicates the
Alex Jones program to 129 radio stations, many of them in small markets. It's
difficult to confirm Jones's audience size, but the host has said he has 5
million daily radio listeners and recently topped 80 million video views in a
single month. He claims to have a bigger audience than Rush Limbaugh.

Jones is able to multiply his audience by simulcasting his radio programming via
his website and further spreading its reach on his YouTube channel. The costs
are minuscule in comparison to running, say, a cable television network, and
it's conceivable he could be generating millions in profits.

One of the engines of his media fiefdom is the sale of Infowars-branded
products, including T-shirts and Infowars-branded dietary supplements and
cleansers. He touts the company's detoxifiers, including one made from the green
hulls of black walnuts, the bark of a South American tree (the quassia) and the
buds of organic cloves. For the survivalists in his audience, he offers a $1,797
"Infowars Life Select" one-year food supply.

Jones has always had flair for the dramatic, as he displayed during this year's
Republican National Convention when he stormed onto the set of the liberal
program "The Young Turks," and got into a shoving match with the hosts that
looked like it could have come straight out of "The Jerry Springer Show."

Jones was largely ignored  by the mainstream media. But in 2006, he drew
substantial attention from cable news programs when the actor Charlie Sheen,
then the star of the popular TV show "Two and a Half Men," appeared on his show
and agreed with Jones that the government might be covering up the true story of
the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

Suddenly, Jones had a perch as a guest on CNN. On the network, he boasted that
he had "intel" two months before Sept. 11, 2001, that "elements of the
military-industrial complex were going to carry out the attacks. I said they'll
use bin Laden. ... That is their patsy to take blame for attacking the towers."

The excitement about the Sheen comments would die down, but Jones never
relented, returning to the allegations over and over. His claims about
"globalists" were interpreted by some critics as a veiled anti-Semitic code.
Jones appeared eager to address the suggestion during a program in which he
turned his attention to the Emanuel brothers: Rahm, Zeke and Ari.

"They're always trying to claim that if I talk about world government and
corruption, I'm anti-Semitic," Jones told his audience. "The Emanuels are Jewish
mafia. It's not that Jews are bad. It's just that they are the head of the
Jewish mafia in the United States."

Jones's remarks have put him in the crosshairs of the Southern Poverty Law
Center, which has labeled him an "extremist." In an interview, the center's
Heidi Beirich called Jones a "gateway drug for people who end up in harder
aspects of the movement," such as neo-Nazi groups.

She pointed to the case of Jerad and Amanda Miller, a couple who died in a
shootout after the ambush killing of two police officers and the murder of one
civilian in Las Vegas. Citing the pair's Internet postings, Beirich described
the couple as "Alex Jones superfans," who moved on to other groups and
eventually violence.

After the shooting, Jones said on his program that "my gut tells me that the
coldblooded, degenerate, evil killing ... is absolutely staged, ladies and
gentlemen. ... There is so much proof that this was staged that my mind exploded
with hundreds of data points, and quite frankly it's conclusive."

Anderson, Jones's radio syndicator, doesn't mind the criticisms of his star
host: "As long as they spell Alex Jones correctly, they can think of him any way
they want," he says.

Jones gained an important ally in 2013 when he met Roger Stone in Dallas. Stone
was there to promote a book he'd written suggesting that Lyndon Johnson was
behind the assassination of John F. Kennedy.

A couple of years later, Stone says, a Jones employee reconnected them.

"We really kind of hit it off," Stone says. "He's fearless. A showman. He likes
a drink. A cigar. Bawdy stories. Hunting and fishing. He's a man's man."

Stone says he had spent nearly three decades trying to figure out how to make
Donald Trump president. He thought his new friend, Jones, could help.

He particularly liked the idea of Trump appearing on the Jones shows, because
"they are reaching the Trump constituencies," Stone says. "They are reaching the
people who knock on the doors."

Trump, according to Stone, wasn't difficult to persuade. The president-elect is
"an inveterate watcher of television. He has watched Infowars," Stone says.
"They hit it off."

During his wide-ranging interview with Trump in December, Jones hit on themes at
the center of the mogul's candidacy, such as radical Islamists allegedly
flooding into the country and a re-evaluation of Russian President Vladimir
Putin.

"Why are we starting a fight with Russia when they're not doing anything to us?"
Jones asked.

Trump responded that Putin is "tough and he's smart. He's a difficult cookie. I
will probably get along well with him."

As the campaign progressed, Jones became more and more of a presence. He
marketed "Hillary for Prison" T-shirts, and they became wildly popular. Stone
recalls Trump remarking to him that he liked seeing so many of the shirts in the
audience at his rallies.

Clinton took notice. In late August, during a stump speech in Reno, Nev.,
Clinton called out Trump's attacks on her health as "fever dreams."

"It's what happens when you listen to the radio host Alex Jones, who claims that
9/11 and the Oklahoma City bombings were inside jobs," Clinton told her
audience. She noted that Trump had told the radio host: "Your reputation is
amazing. I will not let you down."

Jones was now, officially, a campaign issue.

Jones, in response, does what Jones does: He went ballistic, blasting Clinton
for months. In October, he wondered aloud to his audience, "I'm told there's a
rotten smell around Hillary. ... Folks, I've been told this by high-up folks.
Obama and Hillary both smell like sulfur."

The president took the bait. During a campaign appearance for Clinton, less than
a month before the election, Obama said that "a guy on the radio" had been
calling him and Clinton "demons" who "smelled like sulfur." To illustrate his
point, the president sniffed his hand. "I mean, c'mon," Obama said with a big
smile.

It all seemed meant to make Jones and Trump look like jokes. But Stone was
loving it.

"They're merely making him bigger," Stone says, looking back. "They're only
making him more important. I think it had the reverse effect."

On election night, Stone joined Jones at his friend's Austin studio. They popped
open champagne.

Jones had much to celebrate. But he was worried, he told his audience. He's been
warning about it for a long time: Elites will try to assassinate Trump. Jones
can feel it in his gut.

manuel.roig-franzia@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             826 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

BYLINE: in theory

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 494 words

Courts are infected by politics

This year's election cycle broke quite a few records in terms of campaign
spending, but perhaps the most disturbing trend is the rise in spending to elect
state-level judges.

I'm not typically the kind of person who you would find complaining about
campaign spending, mostly because I'm not convinced that political ads really
have that much of an effect on voters (case in point, the 2016 presidential
election). But the fact that judicial elections look more and more like other
legislative elections illustrates a dangerous trend: the politicization of our
court system.

This is a problem for a host of reasons beyond the obvious potential for
corruption and bias on state Supreme Court benches.  It engenders a toxic
mind-set that prioritizes partisan policy gains - such as gun or abortion rights
- over the preservation of law. And what's terrifying is that even though
federal court positions aren't elected positions, they've become infected with
similar partisan rancor.

The legitimacy of our courts is based solely on the public's trust in the law -
and that's a fragile thing. As pundits have noted elsewhere, judges don't have
the power to tap into federal funds or to deploy the national military. Without
the public's trust in the court's power, it becomes easy for a democracy's
executive to ignore their rulings.

It's obvious today that our court system is increasingly politicized, however
much we may dislike this fact. (There's a reason why so many people were upset
when Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg criticized Donald Trump prior to the election.
) And if we're being completely honest, it's difficult to deny that the Supreme
Court has become a popularly elected institution. Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell (R-Ky.) and House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) both openly declared
that they wanted the 2016 election to become a national referendum of a sorts to
give voters a "voice" in the nomination of the next Supreme Court justice.
Sixty-five percent of registered voters listed Supreme Court appointments as
"very important" for this year's election.

Back in the final presidential debate of 2008, then-presidential candidates John
McCain and Barack Obama tiptoed around what they would want out of a Supreme
Court justice, but both affirmed the norm that there shouldn't be any form of
litmus test. Jump  eight years  to the final presidential debate between Hillary
Clinton and Donald Trump, and both candidates were not only endorsing litmus
tests for judges, but also specifically listing the key policy issues that would
serve as qualifying factors for their judges.

Half a century ago, Supreme Court justices drove themselves to the brink of
insanity fretting over whether their decisions were stepping too deep into the
"political thicket." We're a far cry from then, especially as courts
increasingly are seen as a policymaking tool for political operatives on both
sides of the aisle.

- Robert Gebelhoff

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             827 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

BYLINE: Lavanya Ramanathan

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 1531 words


The reports suggesting that people of color had not shown up for Hillary
Clinton, they nagged at Damon Young.

So once the electoral votes were called, Young, the editor in chief - or,
perhaps,  provocateur in chief - of the black-culture website Very Smart
Brothas, started typing.

Not a defense of the black electorate. Instead, Young banged out a midnight
screed, sorrowful but determined to point at where he believed the blame for
Clinton's loss in the presidential race belonged.

He filed his post under the headline, "I Will Never Underestimate White People's
Need To Preserve Whiteness Again."

The name Very Smart Brothas probably doesn't register with readers of mainstream
newspapers and magazines. In a good month, the site may draw 2 million unique
visitors. Compare that with BuzzFeed's 71 million.

But young African Americans voraciously read and share Young's posts, as well as
those of site co-founder D. Marcellus Wright. Since the 2012 death of Trayvon
Martin, amid growing tension over race and the rise of Black Lives Matter, over
cries of "reverse racism" and "All Lives Matter," Very Smart Brothas has emerged
as a stream-of-consciousness sounding board, an expletive-laden fuse and an
absurdist inside joke.

Want to understand "white tears" or why the Texas girl at the center of the
Supreme Court's most recent affirmative-action case was chewed up and spat out
on Twitter as #BeckyWithTheBadGrades? (Her name, for the record, is  not
Becky.)

Young and Wright (who writes under the nom de plume Panama Jackson) explain all
this and then some from the black point of view, often under clicky headlines
that mimic ones you might see on BuzzFeed: "Michelle Obama's Embrace of Feckless
War Criminal George Bush Is the Blackest Thing That Ever Happened Last Week,"
and, "How Ryan Lochte Is the Worst Type of 'White Boy Bro,' Explained."

Whether their writing is seen as pointed, funny or racist depends on who's
reading. But the Brothas' quick takes on American pop and political culture are
rapidly earning intellectual legitimacy.

Years before the blog gained any national traction, the Roots' Questlove shouted
out Very Smart Brothas to his sea of plugged-in Twitter followers. Then, New
York Daily News columnist and activist Shaun King started sharing VSB's posts.
Even the New Yorker's Pulitzer Prize-winning TV critic, Emily Nussbaum, has
mentioned them.

And this month, the HarperCollins literary imprint Ecco signed Young to a
two-book deal.

Young and Wright exhibit a "lack of fear about what they're talking about," says
Ecco Executive Editor Denise Oswald.

"There's no good to be had from a bunch of white people sitting around talking
to each other," she says. "There has to be raw and unmitigated truth, but with a
sense that we're all welcome to the conversation."

This, she says, is how Very Smart Brothas makes readers feel.

After appearing at a recent Washington book talk for another prominent blogger,
Young finds himself in a corner, facing a line of fans waiting to meet the guy
blowing up their Facebook feeds.

"I'm so excited to meet you," gushes one woman.

Young squirms slightly. He makes a peace sign with his fingers and looks
straight at the cellphone waiting to take his photo.

"You're awesome, too," he says, looking slightly pained.

On a laptop, Young comes off as a renegade.

IRL - in real life - Young is ... shy.

Over dinner at a wine bar after the book talk, Wright and Young, both 37, riff
on how they managed to climb out of their Internet niche - "the black
blogosphere," Young says - to become viral stars, recently attracting the
attention of readers who aren't black at all. Comment threads on their site
regularly stretch to a thousand entries. After the election, they spiked to
nearly 2,000.

"We get to say things the way people aren't saying them," Young says. "People"
being, of course, the mainstream media. "We get to write things that other
people can't write."

Like "The Wash, Rinse, and Repeat of Being Black in America Today," which Wright
penned after the September police shooting of Terence Crutcher in Oklahoma.

"If you comply, you won't end up dead. Yeah. Right," he wrote. "Black bodies
have been killed in every single possible way you can end up dead at the hands
of police. Complying. Not complying. Running. Standing. Running away from."

Or this from Wright, on the president's candor in his final year in office:

"From 2008 to 2015, Barack Obama was the President of the United States. Now,
however, he is the Grand Supreme Wizard of Nof---sistan."

Young's sense of humor darts in and out of Very Smart Brothas' posts. It defines
the blog's voice. In person, it glimmers only after he has warmed to you.

Married and the father of a toddler, Young talks mostly about wishing that he
had more time to write. He was a college basketball player until, he says, he
realized that he wasn't actually that good. He focused instead on writing,
majoring in English at Canisius College in Buffalo

He's wearing a gray T-shirt, baggy ripped jeans, brown shoes and a rosary around
his neck. When his food arrives, he bows his head for a flicker of a second and
recites a prayer.

Wright, who has three kids ages 4 months to 7 years, is in many ways Young's
foil. He lives in Washington and spent 13 years as a congressional staffer, also
teaching a summer program at the University of Maryland aimed at encouraging
minorities to enter politics. His mother is white and from France (his parents
met serving in the U.S. military, and he was born when they were stationed in
Panama, the source of his pen name), a fact that he recently examined as he
wondered, in one post, whether she would be voting for Donald Trump. He promoted
parties at the U Street nightclub Liv for years and prefers to write about music
rather than race. With his stylishly rolled-up pants and burgundy Converse
sneakers, he looks like a hipster. "I would be out 24/7," he says. "My kids
absolutely slowed me down."

They met the way people of the Internet seem to meet: They liked each others'
blogs. Even after they started working together, they didn't meet in person for
years.

Both gifted in the early language of the Internet - verbose snark that
presupposed readers, even if there weren't any - they started a relationship
blog. They swapped shifts writing. They posted at midnight, underscoring their
sex-fueled subject matter. Wright says he banged out posts in 15 minutes and
rarely read behind himself, something he would never do now. Young did the
opposite, reading and rereading, editing for hours, and then even after he had
hit "publish."

Young quit his day job teaching to turn the blog into an enterprise, corralling
writers but also shaping the Very Smart Brothas voice into something
distinctive.

Filed under the headline "The First Perfunctory Race-Specific Entry," the first
real post about race came a few months into Very Smart Brothas, in 2008. "This
'black man's hat' is heavy as hell," Young wrote. "No wonder I keep it on the
shelf."

But then. The election of a black president started a conversation, maybe, if
you believe that, or it unplugged a dam of tension and ill will, if you believe
that . And Wright and Young - mostly Young - took the hat off the shelf.

Young says he struggles with the competing interests of writing and running a
site. He wants to write pieces that provoke, the sort that net him retweets and
shares. And, he says, "as editor of a blog, I want traffic." Which is another
sort of affirmation entirely.

To attract traffic, mentions of Taylor Swift, Kanye West and Beyoncé are old
standbys. The election of Trump has provided a wealth of subject matter and page
views. So have police shootings.

"Police shootings are always going to be good for traffic, in a negative way,"
Young says. This is how many readers have found Very Smart Brothas, a fact that
neither Wright nor Young seems particularly comfortable with.

Both confess some terrible mistakes, including a 2012 post by Young urging women
to use common sense to avoid rape. He describes the backlash - he found himself
being called a rapist - as one of the worst experiences of his life.

After the book talk, he insists that he owes his success to black women, to
readers and friends such as blogger and author Luvvie Ajayi, who could have
turned on them but didn't. Instead, he says, they told him that he was wrong.
And he hasn't forgotten it. (The Internet, Wright agrees, also does not forget.)

"We have been successful," Wright adds, "in spite of ourselves."

Back at the book talk, Wright creeps up from a seat at the back and muses about
fame. Young "doesn't love this," he murmurs, cocking his chin in the direction
of the queue.

But there are signs that Young is adjusting. A woman in a wheelchair tells him
that she's a blogger, too, her Africa-shaped earrings swaying as she talks.

Young leans down until his eyes are level with hers. Maybe she could shoot a
piece his way, he suggests.

"Send it to -" he starts, about to tick off the blog's general email address.

He stops himself. He gives her his personal email instead.

Then he takes a breath and gets ready for the next photo.

lavanya.ramanathan@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             828 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Sanders's backing of Ellison leads Schumer to offer his own support

BYLINE: Ed O'Keefe

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 634 words


Senators endorse  bidby congressman from Minnesota  to chair DNC

Incoming Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) says he's backing a
Minnesota congressman to lead the Democratic National Committee for a simple
reason: because Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) likes him.

Schumer, in an interview Friday, said he's supporting a bid by Rep. Keith
Ellison  to run the DNC because he has the backing of Sanders, a key liberal
voice in the Senate who also earned a spot this past week on Schumer's
10-senator leadership team.

Schumer is set to become the first New Yorker and first Jewish man to serve as a
Senate leader and has been a staunch defender of Israel throughout his four
decades in public service. Ellison has been an outspoken critic of Israel and
its relationship with Palestinians.

Earlier in his career, Ellison apologized for or withdrew a number of
controversial statements, including likening former president George W. Bush's
consolidation of power after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to the rise
of Adolf Hitler, defending the leader of the Nation of Islam and labeling his
own 2012 reelection opponent a "lowlife scumbag."

Some of those moves would seem to put him at odds with Schumer, his strong
support for Israel and the strong support he enjoys from Jewish voters across
New York.

"I'm not worried about the Israel stuff even though he and I disagree," Schumer
said Friday when asked about Ellison's past statements.

Schumer said that Ellison came highly recommended by Sanders. The two senators
have known each other since they attended James Madison High School together
while growing up in Brooklyn. (That same school also graduated Supreme Court
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and former senator Norm Coleman (R-Minn.).)

After the Democratic presidential primaries, which Sanders lost to Hillary
Clinton, "Bernie said we need an organizing tool. We can't win the wars,"
Schumer said. "Our issues are right, although they should be bolder and more
progressive, he would say, but we need organizing and not just during
presidential campaigns. So we thought maybe the [Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee] should do some of that, assuming Hillary was going to win. When the
DNC [chairman's job] opened up, he called me and said we need to make the DNC
not a fundraising and political organization but a true organizing tool. I said,
you're exactly right."

Whether that's exactly how it transpired may be up for dispute, but either way,
Schumer, Sanders, outgoing Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (Nev.) and other
top Democrats have quickly endorsed Ellison's bid.

The DNC has yet to set a date for the chairman's election, which is expected to
happen  next year.

Other Democrats in the running include former Vermont governor Howard Dean;
Henry R. MuÃ±oz III, the DNC's finance chairman; outgoing Labor Secretary Tom
Perez; and Rep. Ruben Gallego (Ariz.). Former Maryland governor Martin O'Malley
said last week that will not run for the job.

Party rules dictate that the DNC chairman must be a full-timer. Former chairman
Debbie Wasserman Schultz (Fla.) held the job on a part-time basis while serving
in the House because President Obama appointed her to the job and, well,
presidents get to break the party rules.

Dean has cited the full-timer rule as a reason someone such as Ellison shouldn't
be picked to serve. But Schumer said Friday that Ellison shouldn't need to step
down from his House seat to lead the party.

"No, I don't believe that. He's a very good organizer, and I think Bernie will
have a lot of say in the DNC, which I welcome, and they will find good full-time
organizers," Schumer said. "I said to [Ellison], the number one person you
should hire who is the executive director should be the best organizer we can
find, and he agreed."

ed.okeefe@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             829 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

For Obama, a bittersweet farewell from world stage

BYLINE: Juliet Eilperin

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1441 words

DATELINE: LIMA, PERU


LIMA, Peru - One local radio host declared President Obama's motorcade
"impressive," and Peruvians gathered along the streets to watch it roll by.

But for the most part, the crowds turning out to see the outgoing American
president on his final foreign trip were smaller and quieter than on his
previous outings. Those audiences were just one sign that Obama's week-long
valedictory journey had turned into less of a celebratory goodbye tour and more
of a bittersweet farewell for a president whose worldview is now under siege.

At each stop - in Greece, Germany and Peru - Obama talked about the importance
of respect for democratic norms and ensuring a smooth transition of power to
President-elect Donald Trump, whom he mocked and dismissed for months. He made
fond remarks about a few longtime allies, telling German Chancellor Angela
Merkel that he wished he "could be there to lighten her load" as she carries on
their shared vision of a more inclusive West.

The president voiced optimism about the "strong handoff" he's giving Trump and
about the future course of global events. But he also fretted about the rise of
a "crude nationalism" that has gained currency worldwide, and the fact that
social-media discourse makes no distinction between fact and fiction.

Throughout it all, Obama made appeals to Trump as he fended off questions about
how his successor would rewrite U.S. policy on trade, immigration, the
environment and other issues. At one point, he plaintively predicted that
reality would force Trump to adjust his approach to problems he has promised
voters he would easily solve.

"And I've said before, if these issues were easy - if ensuring prosperity, jobs,
security, good foreign relations with other countries - if all that was simple,
then it would have been done by every previous president," he said at a news
conference Sunday. "And I'm a pretty good presidential historian; I've looked at
my 43 predecessors, and it seems like for all of them - even the best ones -
that you end up confronting realities that you didn't anticipate."

Obama faced the same predicament as both of his immediate predecessors: He hoped
to make one final mark on the world stage even as a very different president,
from the other party, waited in the wings.

Bill Clinton journeyed to Ireland and Britain, in part to make the case for the
Northern Ireland peace accord that his administration had brokered. But he ended
up staying up most of the night while visiting then-Prime Minister Tony Blair
and his wife, Cherie Blair, at Chequers, watching Vice President Al Gore concede
the 2000 presidential election after the Supreme Court's ruling on the outcome
in Florida.

Although George W. Bush emerged the victor that December day, he experienced an
even more fraught final trip eight years later, when he journeyed to Iraq and
Afghanistan to visit U.S. troops and negotiate the withdrawal of forces from
Iraq. Standing at a news conference beside then-Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri
al-Maliki, Bush was nearly hit by a shoe thrown by a reporter, Muntadhar
al-Zaidi - the worst expression of contempt in Iraq.

"This is a farewell kiss!" Zaidi yelled at first, unsuccessfully throwing a
second shoe before Iraqi security officers tackled him.

For Obama, the crowds were friendlier than they were for Bush - but they were
much smaller than when he started his political rise in 2008.

As he traversed Athens for a day and a half, the city's residents were barely
visible - largely because of security measures imposed by the Greek government.
Some Greeks stood by the roadside for a glimpse of Obama's motorcade, but few
waved, and it was nearly impossible to spot the enthusiastic handmade signs that
had invariably popped up along Obama's route in world capitals as well as small
American towns.

The president had been scheduled to deliver his "big speech" of the trip with
the iconic Athens landscape as the backdrop, but weather concerns forced it
indoors. As a result, Obama made his pitch for addressing global inequities
inside a brand-new and well-appointed concert hall, whose very construction amid
an ongoing economic crisis rankled ordinary Greeks.

The night Obama arrived, Katarina Sarficka, a Slovakian tourist, asked young
people on the street whether they were gathering to see the American president -
only to learn they were using the occasion to demonstrate their opposition to
globalization. "They were protesting their own government," she said.

Greek author and journalist Yannis Palaiologos noted that Greeks' view of the
United States has improved under Obama's tenure; there were far worse riots when
Clinton came in 1999. But "there is considerable fatigue and fatalism among the
people regarding the prospects of the country - a sense accentuated by the
victory of Donald Trump, which took a lot of the air, in terms of substance, out
of Obama's visit."

Jeff Shesol, a Clinton speechwriter who traveled with him on his last trip, said
there's "a cognitive dissonance" that happens once someone has been selected to
take the president's place.

"You still have some say over the course of events, but the center of action is
elsewhere, and the focus of action is elsewhere," Shesol said. "In the run-up to
election, there's always a sense of being on marked time, but there is still
only one president. When there's a president-elect, it's different. And when
that person is vowing to undo much of what you've done, it is much, much worse."

In many ways, it was the shock of Trump's win that appeared to reverberate
across every country Obama visited, despite the distance between them. In Lima,
taxi driver Alfredo Baca said that Latin America has "demagogues, but this is
the United States."

Still, he said he understands that Americans' frustration could translate into a
shift in direction. "It's the laws of physics: For every action, there is an
equal and opposite reaction."

Many world leaders appeared sorry to see Obama go. The normally unsentimental
Merkel, who has made no secret of her concerns about Trump's commitment to
liberal social values, remarked during their joint news conference, "Now, taking
leave from my partner and friend, well, yes, it is hard."

Obama heaped appreciation on his closest allies and worked to cultivate younger
leaders who could carry on some of the efforts he has pursued over the past
eight years. Sitting next to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in a
conference room in Lima, with the Canadian and American flags draped behind
them, the president spoke approvingly about his younger counterpart's work on
climate change and humanitarian causes such as refugee resettlement.

"So I have to say that there are few leaders around the world who I think
combine vision and talent and values the way that Justin does," he said. "And I
am very much looking forward to his continued leadership in the years to come."

And although Europeans appeared weary after struggling with unrelenting
economic, security and social challenges for the past decade, Peru gave Obama
some cause for optimism. His last public event of the trip was a town hall
meeting with 1,000 young people, including 100 participants in the new Young
Leaders of the Americas Initiative. The administration program, which has
counterparts in Africa and Asia, aims to train the next generation of global
activists through exchanges with the United States.

Pacing a stage in the middle of the gym at Lima's Pontifical Catholic
University, his jacket off, Obama spent an hour answering questions from
students. He noted that half of the global population was younger than 30, and
after meeting members of that age cohort from "around the world, it makes me
very optimistic to know that you are going to be in charge."

They cheered when he said that girls need to be told often that "they're smart,
and you got to tell them they're ambitious, and you have to give them
opportunity." They laughed when he said he would "not be attempting the
Marinera" because his wife is a better dancer. And they seemed to share his
impatience when he told them that they should begin organizing now rather than
waiting until they held political office.

"Don't wait, saying to yourself, 'Oh, someday, when I'm president of Peru, I'm
going to help poor children,' " he said. "If you care about the environment,
don't wait."

Shortly afterward, Obama wrapped up the town hall meeting, singer Marc Anthony's
"Vivir Mi Vida" blasted through the gym's speakers, and Obama moved around
shaking hands. Many in the audience held up smartphones and took one last round
of images of an American president making his exit from the world stage.

juliet.eilperin@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             830 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Reporters risk their lives; fake-news purveyors don't

BYLINE: Petula Dvorak

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 825 words


Charnice Milton.

That's whom those two guys cranking out fake news in a California apartment
should have given some thought to during this election cycle.

Milton was a 27-year-old journalist fatally shot at a bus stop in Southeast
Washington last year, on her way home from covering a late-night community
meeting at Eastern Market.

She was used as a human shield in a gunfight, her killing still unsolved. And
she was at that deadly place because of the precise way she practiced her craft,
the real journalism that so much of America walked away from during the
presidential campaign.

Instead of relying on the kind of quality reporting done by dedicated, trained
journalists who value facts, too many Americans devoured the kind of fake news
that the likes of Paris Wade and Ben Goldman vomit into the universe.

"Our audience does not trust the mainstream media," Goldman, 26, told The
Washington Post's Terrence McCoy.

McCoy hung out during election week with the fake-news guys, who describe
themselves as the "new yellow journalists."

Puhleeze, guys. You don't get to call yourselves any kind of journalists.

These knobs, who were unemployed restaurant workers six months ago, make more
money pounding out false news from a California beach town rental than the vast
majority of legitimate journalists who devote their lives to covering school
board meetings, city council sessions, community gatherings - the ones who stay
until the end of a late meeting to make sure they don't miss a thing. Like
Milton did.

Fake-news hucksters don't leave their apartment to find stories, they don't
interview any humans, they don't have any sources.

They are part of the snake-oil empire that had more engagement on Facebook in
the past three months of the presidential campaign "than the top stories from
major news outlets such as the New York Times, Washington Post, Huffington Post,
NBC News and others," according to an analysis by BuzzFeed.

"There's not a ton of thought put into it," Wade told The Post, about the way he
manufactures fake stories from his sofa, such as: "BREAKING: Michelle Obama
holds Feminist Rally At HER SLAVE HOUSE!" or "THE TRUTH IS OUT! The Media
Doesn't Want You To See What Hillary Did After Losing."

And what do they get for this?

"YOU ARE THE ONLY ONE I TRUST TO REPORT THE TRUTH." That's the kind of love they
get from a faithful reader.

I wish readers like that got a chance to hang out with these two guys, trolling
the universe from their living room, sometimes making the average American
worker's yearly salary in just one month of fabricated news. And then I wish
those readers had followed Milton around on her beat one day.

Milton wasn't one of The Post's foreign correspondents dodging gunfire in a war
zone. Nor was she bloodied while trying to interview people during a riot. And
she wasn't running toward a deadly tornado while everyone else ran in the other
direction. Those are all things real reporters do. Last year, at least 72
journalists were killed around the world doing some of those things, according
to the Committee to Protect Journalists.

Milton was at a community meeting late at night to chronicle mundane details
about merchant parking, Farm Fresh Tuesdays, neighborhood brochures and
construction progress. They are the kinds of stories just about all real
reporters have written at some point in their careers.

And, like so many of them, Milton was determined to stay until the very end of
the meeting so she wouldn't miss a fact. A vote. A topic. So she got it right
for her readers.

And because she stayed so long, she had to take a late bus, which put her in an
unsafe place and led to her death.

The kind of reporting she did is in danger of disappearing as local newspapers
struggle to make money in the digital age. And the explosion of fake news has
further eroded the media landscape.

Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg said last week that the company is trying to
find ways to curb the hoaxes and fake reports that rocket across the globe using
its engine.

"The problems here are complex, both technically and philosophically," he wrote
in a post, explaining that Facebook has a balancing act in finding the right
place between censorship and propagating dangerous untruths.

For anyone who cares about democracy in the age of Donald Trump, there is
nothing more disturbing than two guys sitting on a couch, fabricating stories
and counting the cash they get with thousands of clicks.

Charnice Milton didn't do that. We have to find a way to honor her life and her
work by valuing real reporting.

petula.dvorak@washpost.com

Twitter: @petulad

Read more Petula Dvorak:

In liberal D.C., the arrival of Donald Trump is triggering an identity crisis

Stop protesting democracy. Saying #notmypresident is the same as saying #notmy
constitution

American women have always had to fight for our rights. We can't stop fighting
now.

They existed in a girls-can-do-anything world. Then Donald Trump won the White
House.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             831 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Judicious questions about Garland, Roe and possibility of putting sis on court

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 1306 words


Since Donald Trump won the presidential election, I have been consistently asked
three questions about the Supreme Court. Two seem obvious, and the third, at
least to me, was surprising.

Can President Obama simply appoint Judge Merrick Garland to the court since the
Senate has refused, for 250 days and counting, to act on the nomination?

How likely is it that the court's jurisprudence on abortion will change now that
Trump will be choosing justices?

And can Trump nominate his sister, a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
3rd Circuit, in Philadelphia, to the high court?

Garland's fate

The first question is the most controversial. Even those who insist that Obama
has the power to force the issue on Garland's nomination agree it is unlikely he
would try.

The Constitution provides that the president "shall nominate, and by and with
the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint ... Judges of the Supreme
Court, and all other Officers of the United States."

The Republican-led Senate, of course, has refused to even hold a hearing on
Garland's nomination, much less consent to his appointment. The Republicans'
position since Justice Antonin Scalia's death in February has been that the next
president should choose Scalia's replacement.

In the past, it has been generally assumed that the Senate can kill judicial
nominations simply by refusing to act upon them until the president leaves
office. Two current members of the court - John G. Roberts Jr. and Elena Kagan -
had their earlier nominations to lower courts end without the Senate taking
votes.

But millions have signed petitions urging another view - that Obama gave the
Senate a chance to advise him on Garland's nomination, and because lawmakers did
not vote one way or the other, the president is free to move on to the "shall
appoint" part of the Appointments Clause.

Those who are urging such an approach often point to a Washington Post op-ed in
the spring by lawyer Gregory L. Diskant. "Note that the president has two
powers: the power to 'nominate' and the separate power to 'appoint,' " Diskant,
a former Supreme Court clerk, wrote. He acknowledged that following this
approach would draw a lawsuit.

Diskant has found little support among constitutional experts, most of whom have
said that "advise and consent" means what it has traditionally been understood
to mean. Otherwise, the document would have said the president can make
appointments unless the Senate steps in to veto his actions.

And a federal judge last week dismissed a lawsuit that would have forced the
Senate to vote.

Liberals also have suggested a recess appointment for Garland. The chance would
come in early January, in the time between when the current Congress ended and
the next one began. Other justices have been appointed in recesses and later
confirmed by the Senate.

But eventual confirmation is impossible in the current scenario, and Garland's
term would last only about a year.

The New Republic last week championed the idea in an article headlined "Obama
Can and Should Put Merrick Garland on the Supreme Court."

But after proposing the idea, author David Dayen concluded: "This would be
completely out of character for Obama," and "the gambit would have an extremely
low likelihood of permanent success - even if the [Supreme] Court didn't rule
the Garland appointment unconstitutional (and it probably would), he'd be out in
a year."

Notably, in separate events last week, liberal justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and
Sonia Sotomayor said that Trump will be choosing the court's ninth justice.

Abortion

In a post-election interview on CBS's "60 Minutes," Trump repeated his pledge to
nominate antiabortion justices who could help overturn  Roe v. Wade , the 1973
decision that said a woman has a constitutional right to seek an abortion.

If that happened, Trump said, abortion decisions would go back to the states,
and some could ban it. Asked whether he was comfortable with the idea that women
might have to go to other states to end their pregnancies, Trump replied: "Well,
we'll see what happens. It's got a long way to go."

Almost everyone can agree on that.

It became clear at the end of the court's last term that there is a majority on
the court to maintain  Roe  and the line of subsequent cases that have expounded
on that constitutional right. The court has acknowledged the state's interest in
protecting fetal life but also has said a state's restrictions cannot put an
"undue burden" on a woman's right.

The court in June found that Texas had violated that right with a law that,
among other things, required doctors at abortion clinics to have admitting
privileges at nearby hospitals and imposed expensive standards on clinics.

In a detailed and legalistic opinion, Justice Stephen G. Breyer said Texas's
assertion that the requirements were to protect women's health could not be
proved and were a pretext for simply making it more difficult for women to
obtain the procedure.

Ginsburg more pithily said in a concurrence that laws that "do little or nothing
for health but rather strew impediments to abortion, cannot survive judicial
inspection."

The decision was 5 to 3, which meant that even if Scalia had been voting, the
law would have been struck down.

But what's lost to neither side is that three of the five in that majority are
Ginsburg, 83, Breyer, 78, and Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, 80. The replacement of
only one would shift the balance.

Even so, the court moves incrementally. It is far from clear that even a
majority of those who disagree with  Roe  would move quickly to dismantle it.

But the possibility is motivating those on both sides of the divisive issue.

Maryanne Trump Barry

Trump himself has mused about nominating his sister to the Supreme Court,
although he has said it is unlikely.

"I would love to, but I think she would be the one to say, 'No way, no way,' "
he said in a Fox News interview last year.

Judicial ethics experts said that federal laws would not prohibit Trump from
nominating Barry, who was elevated to the appeals court by President Bill
Clinton in 1999.

"I doubt the anti-nepotism statute covers it because it's not a branch of
government he controls," said Richard Painter, a University of Minnesota
professor who served as an ethics enforcer in the George W. Bush administration.

He and Stephen Gillers, a law professor at New York University, also agreed that
a Justice Barry would not be constrained from ruling on all issues involving the
federal government.

She would probably have to recuse herself "on those cases in which President
Trump was seen to have a significant interest," Gillers said. "That would not be
every case involving the U.S. It would not be most such cases."

But obstacles abound. For one, Barry is not on the list of 21 people from whom
Trump has pledged to pick his nominee. For another, Barry, 79, is the  older
sister of the  oldest  man ever elected president. Presidents like their Supreme
Court nominees to be a lasting legacy; Barry took senior status five years ago.

Also: See Abortion, above. The National Review has called Barry a "pro-abortion
extremist judge."

Barry, who served on the appeals court with Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., was
part of a panel that struck down a New Jersey ban on the later-term abortion
procedure critics call "partial-birth abortion."

Barry called the law a "desperate attempt" to undermine  Roe . Besides pointing
out that the Supreme Court had struck down a similar state law, she wrote that
it was "based on semantic machinations, irrational line-drawing, and an obvious
attempt to inflame public opinion instead of logic or medical evidence." (The
Supreme Court later upheld a federal version of the ban.)

So for those who supported Trump because of the importance of the Supreme Court,
Barry is probably not what they were looking for.

robert.barnes@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             832 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Showdown looms at settler outpost Israel says is illegal

BYLINE: William Booth

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1231 words

DATELINE: AMONA, WEST BANK


AMONA, West Bank - Nachum Schwartz is living his dream in a trailer on a windy
hill, raising his children and a flock of sheep, as one of the chosen ones. This
is the land of Abraham, he said, the biblical home of the Jews, and nobody is
going to kick his family off their mountaintop.

"We belong to this land, and this land belongs to us," said the 42-year-old
farmer and herdsman, who was among the first Jewish pioneers to settle this
outpost in 1996.

Now his dreams may be shoved aside by Israeli bulldozers.

In a remarkable rebuke, Israel's Supreme Court has ruled that the Amona
settlement is illegal, built on land that belongs to Schwartz's Palestinian
neighbors.

The judges have ordered the Israeli military, which controls the occupied
territory, to evict the 40 families living here and demolish their houses -
alongside the kindergarten ritual baths and synagogue -  by Dec. 25.

When the Israeli army came to raze just nine homes in Amona in 2006, many court
hearings ago, it took a battalion of soldiers and police officers in riot gear
and ended in a bloody melee. Hundreds of protesters were wounded, many from
baton blows and horse hoofs. Three legislators were among them. About 80
security force members also were injured.

The looming demolition of Amona comes as right-wing Israelis are hailing as a
near-miracle the U.S. presidential election of Donald Trump, who they pray will
end decades of U.S. criticism of settlement construction on land the
Palestinians want for a future state. They expect Trump will give Israel a freer
hand to build where it wants in the West Bank.

The stakes over the fate of this hardscrabble community of shoddy trailers are
high, not just in the international arena but also inside Israel. The clash is
being drawn as a showdown between the authority of the high court and the
governing coalition of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

It is also going to be a real test for Netanyahu, who was elected with help from
the Jewish settlers but who also fears international censure over allegations of
a bold land grab. Most of the world considers all the Jewish settlements in the
West Bank to be illegal, not just those built on Palestinian private property.
The United States calls these communities "illegitimate" and "an obstacle to
peace." Israel disputes that.

Settlement supporters in the Netanyahu government have been scrambling to find a
way to save Amona - or at least to save face.

The government first sought to provide alternative homes for Amona residents by
building units in a nearby settlement. The community includes about 200
children.

The Amona settlers refused.

Netanyahu then sought to postpone the eviction for seven months, but the high
court said there had been enough delays and turned down the appeal.

Then the Israeli parliament last week  gave preliminary approval, over
Netanyahu's objections, to a controversial bill that would retroactively
legalize Jewish settlements, such as Amona, that were built on private
Palestinian property.

Netanyahu has boasted that his government is the most supportive of settlers in
Israel's history, but he called the legalization bill needlessly provocative.

Israel's attorney general branded the legislation as being against international
law; the high court could also reject it.

Critics of the legislation say it clearly crosses a line.

"I believe this law is evil," said Talia Sasson, president of the New Israel
Fund and  an Israeli lawyer who was the author of a 2005 report on illegal
outposts for then-Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. "It's so illegal in so many
aspects that it's hard to believe [the high court] would approve this law. But,
I can't predict the future."

Israel's education minister and the leader of the pro-settler Jewish Home party,
Naftali Bennett, said the proposed law was fair and just. He stressed that the
Amona settlers had done nothing wrong and that successive Israeli governments
had supported the settlements, including those built on private Palestinian
land.

Bennett vowed that the days of treating the 450,000 or so Jewish settlers as
"second-class Israeli citizens" were over.

Amona residents say the same and point to the roads, power lines, water pipes
and soldiers sent to protect them as proof the government supports their
community.

Thousands of homes in the Jewish settlements across the West Bank are suspected
of being on private Palestinian land, according to the parliament. A police
investigation of land claims by the settlers in Amona found someone - it didn't
discover who - had forged documents, a practice other settlements have been
accused of. Settlers say they have to go through middlemen and use straw buyers
because Palestinians won't sell them land - if they did, they could be
ostracized as collaborators, punished by the Palestinian Authority or even
killed.

The Amona eviction, if it comes, would be celebrated in the nearby Palestinian
town of Silwad, just across the valley from the settlement, where a dozen
families were suing to reclaim the Amona land.

The elderly Palestinian plaintiffs recall their mothers and fathers tilling the
rocky soil when they were young. Sitting together in a meeting hall in Silwad,
they speak with nostalgia about a long-ago bounty of figs and grapes, wheat and
olives.

"I watched the settlers take the land," said Mariam Hammad, 82. "I watched, but
I could not stop them."

In Amona, the settlers deny that the Palestinian petitioners ever really owned
the land - despite what the courts have found. They mock the claims, which date
to Jordanian rule or earlier, and say the elderly Palestinians never would have
made a peep of complaint were it not for left-wing Israeli activists from groups
such as Peace Now and Yesh Din, who supplied the lawyers.

"I've never seen these Arabs," said Eli Greenberg, an Amona resident and
biblical scholar who makes his living selling irrigation equipment over the
Internet.

Greenberg said that when the Amona founders came here, "the land was barren.
There was nothing here."

If Amona is destroyed and the land turned over to Palestinian owners, Greenberg
said, "the Arabs will never be allowed here." He said the Amona hilltop is a
strategic asset, overlooking its mother settlement, called Ofra, on the next
mountain. "It is too close to Ofra. Nobody will allow that."

The area is protected by Israeli soldiers who block Palestinians from entering
the area without special permits. The communities fear terrorist attacks.

"The best solution is to let what is growing here continue to grow," Greenberg
said.

The proposed legislation to legalize Jewish outposts allows the Palestinians
whose property was expropriated to be paid cash or given alternative land.
Greenberg said that was fair.

Issa Zayed, 57, is one of the Palestinians whose family proved to the Israeli
court that they owned the property where Amona is built. He said it was a simple
case, in a complex land. The land was stolen, Zayed said, period.

It must be returned, he said.

Zayed said that just as the land may be precious to Jews, it is precious to
Palestinians. It is as dear to him as his children, and he said he didn't want
any money.

Asked what would happen to him if he were to venture across the valley to walk
the fields where his father farmed and spent his last day on Earth, Zayed said,
"I would be shot."

william.booth@washpost.com

Carol Morello in Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             833 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Republicans unclear on how to pay for Trump agenda

BYLINE: Mike Debonis;Kelsey Snell

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A09

LENGTH: 1457 words


Plans stand to add to deficit that GOP  railed against under Obama

President-elect Donald Trump intends to launch a broad legislative agenda that
includes cutting taxes, rolling back the Affordable Care Act, growing the
military and rebuilding the nation's infrastructure.

The question is how congressional Republicans, after eight years of apocalyptic
warnings about the growing national debt, will respond to the dire fiscal
implications of proposals that would probably send the deficit soaring.

Taken together, the Trump agenda stands to drain hundreds of billions of dollars
a year from the federal balance sheet. His proposed tax cut alone, according to
independent analysts, could cost the Treasury as much as $7.2 trillion over a
decade.

Some Republicans in Congress, including House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, have
indicated that some sacred cows might be up for slaughter. Those include federal
entitlement programs such as Medicare, long considered a "third rail" of
American politics, that Trump himself has shied away from touching.

"You fix the health-care problem, you are dramatically fixing the fiscal health
of this country," Ryan (R-Wis.) said Thursday. "Those are among the things that
we have to do if we're going to truly nurse ourselves back to fiscal health."

In interviews with more than a dozen congressional Republicans last week -
including staunch supporters of Trump and his agenda - most dismissed concerns
about potential deficits in a big-spending Trump administration.

Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.), who favored austere spending blueprints as House Budget
Committee chairman and is now a candidate for a Cabinet post in the Trump
administration, said it would be a matter of "priorities."

"If you prioritize on the things that he and we believe are important ... it can
actually save money," Price said.

Most Republicans on Capitol Hill, including Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), a former
presidential candidate, simply dodged questions about Trump's plans: "We have a
debt problem in America that needs to be addressed, but we're going to wait and
see what the proposals are."

Several Republican lawmakers who call themselves deficit hawks simply expressed
faith that implementing GOP policies would unleash levels of economic growth the
nation hasn't seen in more than 15 years, boosting government revenue to
compensate for any new spending.

"If we were at 4 percent GDP growth consistently, we could afford all that,"
said Rep. Andy Harris (R-Md.), echoing the views of other House conservatives.

Economists argue that those growth targets for the U.S. economy are ambitious at
best. Experts on both the left and the right are projecting growth rates closer
to 2 percent, and even under the most generous circumstances, most believe
Trump's proposals would cost far more than the economy could recoup through
economic growth alone.

"The suite of policy proposals that Trump put forth would explode the debt,"
said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal
Budget, which estimates Trump's plans would add $5.3 trillion to the existing
$19.5 trillion national debt.

"A lot of times in campaigns candidates talk about what they would do and later
turn to talking about how they would pay for it," she added. "But because he
walled off the major entitlement programs, there is nowhere to go to get the
money to pay for things."

Should Republicans support deficit spending under a Trump administration, it
would mark a 180-degree reversal in rhetoric. The current Republican majorities
in the House and Senate were built on the midterm waves of 2010 and 2014, where
GOP candidates preaching fiscal austerity ousted Democrats who favored deficit
spending to jump-start a sluggish economy.

Ryan himself warned in 2010 that federal spending would "mortgage our children's
future" in commentaries that he and current House Republican Conference Chairman
Jeb Hensarling (R-Tex.) co-wrote for the Washington Examiner.

"By acting now, a debt crisis can be averted by reforming government on our own
terms," Ryan said.

Trump, on the other hand, made nary a mention of budget deficits on the campaign
trail. He briefly suggested renegotiating the country's debt obligations, a move
that would likely decimate America's global creditworthiness.

In an interview published Friday, Trump's designated chief White House
strategist suggested the incoming president would pay little heed to Republican
orthodoxy on fiscal matters.

"Like [Andrew] Jackson's populism, we're going to build an entirely new
political movement," Stephen K. Bannon told the Hollywood Reporter. "The
conservatives are going to go crazy. I'm the guy pushing a trillion-dollar
infrastructure plan."

Left-leaning fiscal experts, meanwhile, see new evidence in the Trump agenda
that Republican attacks on President Obama's fiscal policy were driven less by
conviction and more by a political desire to undermine a Democratic
administration.

"There's no plausible pathway that gets you from a huge trickle-down tax cut to
a doubling of the growth rate," said Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the
liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and former chief economic adviser
to Vice President Biden. "What will happen is what always happens in these
moments: You exacerbate after-tax inequality, and you generate large deficits."

Trump's spending plans come amid warnings from the Federal Reserve that the
economy is operating at close to full employment and productivity growth is at a
near-term low. Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet L. Yellen testified Thursday at
a hearing of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee that racking up more
debt under those conditions could put the economy at serious risk in the future.

"There's not a lot of fiscal space, should a shock to the economy occur, an
adverse shock, that did require fiscal stimulus," Yellen said.

Some Republican deficit hawks have said they remain worried about the debt and
deficit but refused to address Trump's proposals directly. "I think we'll stand
up to that problem," said Sen. Pat Roberts (R-Kan.). "It is going to be
difficult, but I think we need to operate within our budget rules."

What remains to be seen is whether Republican leaders undertake a serious effort
to pursue cuts to Medicare or other major federal programs in the early months
of the Trump administration. Ryan has pointed to Medicare, Medicaid and the
Children's Health Insurance Program - and, to a lesser extent, Social Security -
as the main drivers of the nation's long-term fiscal pressures.

He said in a Nov. 10 Fox News Channel interview that Medicare has "serious
problems" that would need to be addressed when Congress moves to repeal and
replace the Affordable Care Act. He did not say, however, how far-reaching those
changes might be.

A policy agenda advanced by Ryan and House Republicans favors reworking Medicare
from a public insurance program into a "premium support" model where
beneficiaries would be given vouchers to purchase private insurance plans.
Medicaid, which now covers more than 70 million low-income Americans, would be
converted into a "block grant" where states would be handed a fixed sum and
given wide latitude to administer benefits.

Ryan on Thursday declined to say whether those initiatives would be considered
as part of an Obamacare replacement: "We'll get into all this stuff down the
road."

One key Republican, Senate Finance Committee Chair Orrin G. Hatch (Utah) - whose
committee oversees taxes and entitlement programs - seemed concerned about
unfettered spending and how the numbers would all add up. Asked if an
entitlements overhaul was necessary to making the Trump agenda fiscally
sustainable, Hatch said, "I think that's probably the understatement."

Hatch said Wednesday that "we're going to have to" consider Medicare policy
changes in the coming year and did not rule out a privatization push. "For some
people, you'd have to have premium support," he said.

Even if Republicans don't immediately pursue entitlement cuts, Bernstein said,
the deficits that Trump's policies stand to create would make such cuts all but
inevitable.

"When their phony growth agenda doesn't work," he said, "they're going to throw
their hands up and say, 'Sorry, folks, we're going to have to cut
entitlements.'"

Democratic lawmakers, meanwhile, appear to be horrified policy-wise and
salivating politically at the prospect that Republicans might pursue Medicare
cuts.

"It's not going to happen," Sen. Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), the incoming
Senate minority leader, said Friday. "I'd like to see how many Republicans in
the Senate will vote for privatization of Medicare, or in the House."

He challenged them, in fact, to do so: "Make our day."

mike.debonis@washpost.com

kelsey.snell@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             834 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Richard Spencer's vision: Apartheid in America

BYLINE: John Woodrow Cox

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 2964 words


Richard Bertrand Spencer had just told his guests how inspired he was by their
presence when the rising sound of fury outside the dining room's double doors
reached his ears. He knew what it meant.

Spencer stepped into the open hallway and, there, beneath the wooden
second-floor railing at Maggiano's Little Italy in Northwest Washington, more
than 30 protesters were marching up the stairway toward him. Several held
posters - "No to Racism and Fascism" - and blew whistles. "No Nazis! No KKK! No
fascist USA!" they shouted, their voices intensifying as he came into view.

Ten feet from the top of the stairs, a Maggiano's employee - a black man in a
light-blue button-down and red tie - spread his arms wide, blocking the mob from
reaching the 100 or so white nationalists who had gathered at the restaurant
Friday for a private dinner. Spencer walked behind him and looked down at the
activists. Then the man who had coined the term "alt-right" grinned and waved.

For years, Spencer and his followers worked in obscure corners of the Internet
to promote pride in white identity and the creation of an "ethno-state" that
would banish minorities. Then came the presidential campaign of Donald Trump,
whose attacks on undocumented immigrants, Muslims and political correctness
deeply resonated with them.

Though Trump denounced the alt-right Tuesday, its adherents had crusaded for him
on Twitter before the election and celebrated his victory as a seminal moment
for their cause.

They exulted again when Trump announced that his chief White House strategist
would be former Breitbart chairman Stephen K. Bannon, who once called his
website "the platform for the alt-right."

And no one is more critical to the alt-right movement than Spencer, its
carefully crafted public face. Last weekend, the articulate, highly educated
38-year-old hosted a conference in the nation's capital that drew nearly 300
white nationalists and at least 50 reporters. But his agenda reaches far beyond
any single gathering. Spencer envisions a world in which his ideals are embraced
by the mainstream, and he has vowed to keep pushing until that happens.

Spencer, who splits his time between Arlington, Va., and Whitefish, Mont., has
reveled in the coverage from traditional news outlets with huge audiences: NBC,
NPR, CNN, The Washington Post, the New York Times. He would draw their attention
again this week when a video of him at the conference shouting "Hail Trump!" -
and the Nazi salutes it elicited - went viral.

But from a distance, almost everything about him appears as innocuous as the
term "alt-right" - and that's by design. Spencer heads a pair of organizations
with unremarkable names: the National Policy Institute and Radix Journal. He
dresses in three-piece Brooks Brothers suits, gold-coin cuff links and $5,000
Swiss watches, and he sports a swept-over hipster haircut known as a "fashy" (as
in fascist). Spencer, who has degrees from the University of Virginia and the
University of Chicago, dismisses such labels as Nazi, racist and white
supremacist, preferring to describe himself as an "identitarian." Even before
Twitter banned him and other white nationalists last week, he seldom trolled his
enemies.

But to those who track hate groups, Spencer is dangerous because, when he
doesn't want to, he doesn't look or sound or act dangerous.

"Richard Spencer's clean-cut appearance conceals a radical white separatist,"
said the Southern Poverty Law Center, which described him as an "academic
racist."

On Friday at Maggiano's, he remained calm, even when a protester squirted him
with a liquid that smelled of rotten eggs. That prompted him to strip down to
only his shoes, pants and a gray vest, leaving his shoulders and arms exposed.

Minutes later, the police arrived and the activists, who call themselves
anti-fascists, were escorted outside.

"Their whole life," Spencer would argue later, "is based on hate."

With the protesters gone, he returned to the private room, which had been
reserved under the name "Griffin family reunion." Inside, former reality-TV star
Tila Tequila - who claims she is Adolf Hitler reincarnated - joined two men in
the movement in a Sieg Heil salute posted to Twitter. A young blond man who wore
a tight shirt and thigh-high shorts in the style of a Nazi youth mingled with a
gray-haired, 69-year-old lawyer in a dark suit and tie who once represented the
KKK. (On Monday, the restaurant apologized for hosting the gathering, saying it
didn't know anything about the National Policy Institute.)

Spencer spotted a manager and asked him to bring in the Maggiano's workers who
had helped protect them. Soon, eight staff members - six of them people of color
who would be exiled from Spencer's longed-for ethno-state - entered to a
standing ovation from the white nationalists.

As the dinner neared its end, and with the TV cameras all downstairs, he
explained the schedule for the next day's conference. Then, as Spencer
considered how they should mark its finish, he smiled and offered a joke.

"Let's party like it's 1933," he declared, referencing the year Hitler was
appointed Germany's chancellor and the Nazis embarked on the creation of their
own ethno-state.

Beneath chandeliers and amid dark, wood-paneled walls, the alt-right erupted in
cheers.

Spencer, his expression now serious, waited for them to quiet, then spoke once
more.

"Let's party like it's  2016 !" he shouted, raising his bare arms and pumping
them in the air as the room roared even louder.

'I have a dream'

Richard Spencer, says the Southern Poverty Law Center, is "a suit-and-tie
version of the white supremacists of old, a kind of professional racist in
khakis."

Richard Spencer, says the Anti-Defamation League, is a "leader in white
supremacist circles that envision a 'new' right that will openly embrace 'white
racial consciousness.'"

Richard Spencer, says a Huffington Post editorial, is "no less skilled at
manipulation than Donald Trump."

Spencer is often asked whether he can identify a moment in his life that led him
to disdain African Americans, Jews and other minorities, but he always struggles
to answer the question.

"I think a lot of people want to figure that out. Like, you know, what
happened?" he said. "Nothing."

Born to a wealthy family, he grew up in Dallas, where he played football and
baseball at a nationally renowned private school for boys. Spencer studied
English literature and music at U-Va. and earned a master's in the humanities at
the University of Chicago. He left a Duke University doctoral program in 2007 to
write for right-wing publications, a career that helped crystallize his
political and racial ideologies.

Somewhere deep down, Spencer said, he has always had these beliefs. But the 2006
Duke lacrosse case, in which white members of the team were falsely accused of
raping a black woman, made an impression, as did the writings of Jared Taylor, a
white nationalist who lives in Northern Virginia.

And what do his parents think?

"They think I'm crazy," he said.

His mother did not respond to a voice mail, and his father, an ophthalmologist,
declined to give an interview, saying in a text message that he was "very
concerned that anything I might say could in any way be used to smear Richard."

"Richard is my son," he wrote, "and as such I only wish to give him positive
support whether I personally agree with him on all political issues or not."

His relationship with his father is strained, said Spencer, who is also
separated from his wife, Nina, a Russian-born writer with whom he has a young
daughter. Nina Spencer could not be reached for comment.

"What I'm doing is hard," he said. "It can have a toll on a relationship."

An extensive profile in Mother Jones revealed that Spencer had previously dated
an Asian American woman, and he acknowledged that some of his comrades would
probably find that "terrible."

Last week, he said that he would not date a nonwhite woman again and that he
still wants interracial relationships barred.

That belief is core to the alt-right's most radical goal: an all-white country.

"We need an ethno-state," he said in a 2013 speech, "so that our people can
'come home again,' can live amongst family and feel safe and secure."

He ended his address by invoking the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.: "I have a
dream."

Last week, Spencer was reluctant to discuss how that dream would be achieved.

How, he was asked, in a nation with more than 100 million blacks, Asians and
Latinos, could a whites-only territory be created without overwhelming violence?

Over chocolate croissants and an Americano coffee at a Corner Bakery Cafe, he
avoided the question, discussing Nietzsche, communism's origins, history's
unpredictability.

Then, at last, he offered an answer.

"Look, maybe it will be horribly bloody and terrible," he said. "That's a
possibility with everything."

'A sadistic pleasure'

Two days before the conference, while in mid-thought about the president-elect's
chief strategist, Spencer walked out of an Arlington Starbucks as his Lyft car
pulled to the curb. The driver, who had a thick Turkish accent, popped the
sedan's trunk and loaded his luggage.

Spencer likes to describe Stephen K. Bannon as "alt-light," not quite committed
to the movement's most radical objectives but receptive to some of the broader
philosophies.

"He's open," said Spencer, who didn't know then that five days later Trump would
disavow the alt-right and insist that Bannon shared none of its views.

"It's not a group I want to energize," Trump told the New York Times.

As the car sped along the Potomac River toward Washington, Spencer talked of the
movement's next target: colleges. He plans to speak at Texas A&M and the
University of Michigan in the coming weeks and is convinced that the alt-right
will appeal to students weary of politically correct campus cultures.

"I think there's going to be a huge crowd," he said. "The world is changing."

He pulled his phone from his pocket. Giddy, he played a video taken at Michigan,
where more than 100 students were filmed chanting "No alt-right! No KKK! No
racist USA!"

He played it again.

"We're getting under their skin," he said. "I take a sadistic pleasure in that."

The Lyft arrived at a downtown hotel where Spencer had booked a room for the
conference. He asked the driver to wait while he dropped off his bags.

And what did the Muslim immigrant, unaware that he was chauffeuring a leading
white nationalist, think of the United States?

Much better than Turkey, the driver said in halting English. He beamed as he
explained that his family had come here eight months earlier, just in time for
the birth of his new baby - officially an American citizen.

He was proud of that.

"Human rights," he said. "It's good."

Spencer, of course, would expel Muslims from his ethno-state. And most women, he
said as he was being driven from the hotel to his next appointment, would return
to their traditional role of bearing children.

His attitude toward women and minorities made his admiration for Tila Tequila,
the Nazi-loving Vietnamese American, surprising. Would he allow her in the
ethno-state?

"There are always exceptions, I guess," an amused Spencer would say later. "I'm
a generous guy."

As the Lyft car neared its final destination, Spencer got a call from a
supporter who had a logistical question about the conference.

"I've got to run," he said as the car stopped. "I'm going on CBS News, if you
can believe it."

'It's absolute madness'

Face strained, Spencer paced his 10th-floor hotel room later that night.

"I'm 90 percent sure they're going to cancel," he said into his cellphone.
"Yeah,  99  percent."

He had originally booked the dinner for conference attendees for Friday night at
the Hamilton, but the anti-fascist activists had learned of their plan and
threatened to protest at the restaurant.

"We think we've found the mole," he continued.

Strewn about the floor and dresser were empty plastic bags and bowls left over
from District Taco, founded by a Mexican immigrant who also would be excluded
from the ethno-state.

Spencer hung up and walked to the window, stopping inches short as he stared
across the street. "Ugh," he muttered, sounding shaken - nothing like the
composed, focused leader his followers were so drawn to.

Jared Taylor, his mentor and the founder of American Renaissance magazine,
called to urge him not to relent.

"It took us years to climb back from the humiliation of being canceled," Taylor
reminded him, referring to a 2010 conference he was forced to abort.

Spencer ping-ponged between electrical outlets near the window and the coffee
maker, charging his phone as he talked.

Another call: "It's absolute madness." Another: "If we keep having emergencies,
I can't do this conference." Another: "My stress level is through the roof."

Canceling the dinner, Spencer thought, was their best option.

"This went off like a dream last year," he said, aware of how much had changed
in the past 12 months.

He took a call from a fact-checker at Mother Jones, then another call from the
Hamilton.

"I understand," he said. "Are you going to refund me?"

His anger at the activists swelled. "They're trying to ruin a celebration," he
said, "that was just for us."

He heard from Bill Regnery, the bow-tie-wearing 75-year-old best known for the
right-wing publishing house that bears his family name. Regnery had an idea.

"The restaurant at the Trump?" said Spencer, who on their next call advised
Regnery to drop it.

"We're just going to have to accept a little bit of a defeat here," he argued.

More calls. He opened a half-bottle of J. Lohr cabernet and poured himself a
glass. Then Regnery got back to him. The Trump International Hotel, it appeared,
could accommodate them.

Spencer listened intently.

"You're basically taking my attitude," he said, suddenly confident and defiant
again. "Refuse to lose."

He and a compatriot walked to the hotel, where Spencer had celebrated Trump's
victory on election night amid chants of "USA!" Beneath a Swarovski crystal
chandelier in the atrium, Spencer signed a contract for the dinner. Then a woman
with the hotel escorted him to a private, high-ceilinged room with white columns
and wood floors.

"The Lincoln Library," she said, which meant that white nationalism's most
fervent supporters would be gathering in a room dedicated to the Great
Emancipator.

The next morning, though, Spencer said he learned that the room had been
double-booked.

The Trump canceled, and the alt-right would have to settle for Maggiano's.

'We are the establishment'

On Saturday, Spencer stood at the back of the ballroom at the Ronald Reagan
Building and International Trade Center as the white-clothed tables began to
pack with his devotees. He moved his lips in silence, rehearsing each line of
his welcome. In his hands, he held a notebook.

"We are the establishment," he'd written in cursive on the page.

He wore a fitted gray suit and smelled of Cologne Russe, his preferred scent
because it mimics a version once made for the Russian royal family.

He had long prepared for the conference, which he viewed as historic in the
alt-right's ascension. To succeed, Spencer knew, he could not simply rouse the
zealous white nationalists. He was also determined to thrust his message deeper
into the mainstream.

So as the clock ticked past 10 a.m., he strode to the stage, gripped the
microphone and rubbed his forehead, feigning a headache.

"It's just the winning," he said, borrowing a regular Trump line. "It's too much
winning."

Onlookers laughed and clapped. Less than four hours later, Spencer welcomed
representatives of the world's major media publications to a news conference.

"As you can see, the alt-right is growing, the alt-right is real and the
alt-right exists in the real world," he said, before thanking the attending
reporters for taking his movement seriously - for trying to understand it. He
asked them, politely, to stand up for free speech and denounce Twitter for
banning him and others. He shushed his own brethren when they booed journalists
asking confrontational questions.

He talked of identitarianism, NATO's shortcomings, Trump's staff appointments,
authors who have influenced him, the alt-right's appeal to women and his
proposed 50-year moratorium on immigration (with some exceptions for white
Europeans).

"I think this was a highly productive discussion," he said at the end. "Let's do
it again, but now it is time for you to go home and it's time for us to enjoy
the rest of the conference."

Most of the journalists did leave, but a few stayed, and in the back of the
room, a camera sending a live feed to an alt-right website continued to record.
Well after dark, Spencer took the stage a final time - and sounded different.

After a single minute, he referred to the media as the "lÃ¼genpresse," a
Nazi-era term meaning "lying press."

"We willed Donald Trump into office," he asserted. "We made this dream our
reality."

His tone deliberate and his eyes serious, he railed against journalists,
leftists and minorities, until at last he came to the subject of his people.

"For us," he said, "it is conquer or die."

Spencer's voice rose as the speech neared its end.

"For us, as Europeans, it is only normal again when we are great again!" he
shouted. "Hail Trump! Hail our people! Hail victory!"

He raised his glass and, in video caught on camera by the Atlantic, the heart of
the alt-right stood and cheered - and a number of them offered their leader the
Nazi salute.

And from the stage, Spencer looked at his followers, smiled and applauded.

john.cox@washpost.com

Ben Terris and Julie Tate contributed to this report.

Read more:

Donald Trump first swept into the nation's capital 40 years ago. It didn't go
well.

A small plane crashes. Night falls. And one man struggles to survive.

A Marine fights to prove he's innocent of sexual misconduct. Then a lost
cellphone is found.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             835 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Trump shifts on Clinton, climate

BYLINE: Karen Tumulty

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1614 words


tells times he Won't seek probe of rival

Says law 'in theory' lets him run both his firm, nation

President-elect Donald Trump abruptly abandoned some of his most tendentious
campaign promises Tuesday, saying he does not plan to prosecute Hillary Clinton
for her use of a private email system or the dealings of her family foundation,
has an "open mind" about a climate-change accord from which he vowed to withdraw
the United States and is no longer certain that torturing terrorism suspects is
a good idea.

The billionaire real estate developer also dismissed any need to disentangle
himself from his financial holdings, despite growing questions about how his
global business dealings might affect his decision-making as the nation's chief
executive.

"The law's totally on my side. The president can't have a conflict of interest,"
Trump told editors and reporters of the New York Times during an expansive,
hour-long question-and-answer session. "In theory, I could run my business
perfectly and then run the country perfectly. There's never been a case like
this."

Trump further sought to distance himself from a small, far-right movement known
for its embrace of racist and anti-Semitic rhetoric that has celebrated Trump's
election.

"I don't want to energize the group, and I disavow the group," Trump said of the
alt-right.

The president-elect has a record of making statements that are inconsistent with
his previous ones, which means it is uncertain whether any of the positions he
espoused on Tuesday will hold in the days going forward, much less after he is
inaugurated.

Some of Trump's shifts also have the potential to spark a backlash from his most
ardent supporters.

In his meeting with the Times, Trump assumed a more cordial, magnanimous posture
than he has in recent days. Over the weekend, he used his Twitter account to
attack the comedy of "Saturday Night Live" and the cast of the hit Broadway show
"Hamilton." On Monday, he upbraided broadcast news executives and on-air
journalists in an off-the-record session that quickly leaked to other media.

His stance on Clinton, the former secretary of state, was a jarring pivot from
the presidential campaign, during which he called her "Crooked Hillary" and
threatened during one of their debates to put his Democratic opponent in jail.
At his rallies and during the Republican convention in Cleveland, Trump's
supporters would regularly chant, "Lock her up!"

But on Tuesday, he said: "I don't want to hurt the Clintons. I really don't. She
went through a lot and suffered greatly in many different ways."

Asked whether that meant he had ruled out appointing a special prosecutor, as he
had said he would, Trump said: "It's just not something that I feel very
strongly about."

If Trump were to push or try to block a criminal investigation from the Oval
Office, it would mark an extraordinary break with political and legal protocol,
which holds that the attorney general and FBI make decisions on whether to
conduct probes and file charges, free of pressure from the president.

The president-elect's new position may also have no effect on the plans of other
members of his party on Capitol Hill. Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), who is
finishing his first term leading the powerful House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, has vowed to continue to investigate Clinton's email server.

An attorney for Clinton, David Kendall, declined to comment.

Trump also shifted position on climate change, saying he believes there is "some
connectivity" between human activity and rising global temperatures.

In 2012, he had brushed off that idea as a Chinese hoax, tweeting: "The concept
of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S.
manufacturing non-competitive."

Asked whether he plans to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris climate
accord, he said he is keeping "an open mind to it." The deal negotiated by
nearly 200 countries last year commits them to a global push to reduce
greenhouse gases.

Trump, however, has repeatedly said the agreement is bad for U.S. businesses. In
a speech in May, he declared that during his first 100 days in office, "we're
going to cancel the Paris climate agreement and stop all payments of U.S. tax
dollars to U.N. global warming programs."

Trump signaled another shift on the question of how to treat terrorism suspects.
During his presidential campaign, he had said that he would reinstate the use of
waterboarding and similar interrogation techniques in the questioning of
suspected terrorists.

"Don't tell me it doesn't work - torture works," Trump said in February at a
retirement community in South Carolina. "Okay, folks? Torture - you know, half
these guys [say]: 'Torture doesn't work.' Believe me, it works. Okay?"

But Tuesday, he suggested he might have changed his mind after interviewing a
leading candidate for secretary of defense, retired Marine Corps Gen. James N.
Mattis, who headed the U.S. Central Command.

Mattis argued that he had never found harsh interrogation techniques "to be
useful," Trump said, adding that the retired general preferred building trust
with "a pack of cigarettes and a couple of beers."

"I was very impressed by that answer,'' Trump said.

Trump spoke extensively about the implications of an unprecedented situation in
which a businessman with global holdings will sit in the Oval Office. That
prospect has prompted criticism that there will be inevitable conflicts of
interest.

His election, Trump acknowledged, has been good for his business, making the
name that he emblazons on his properties and markets through his licensing
agreements "a hotter brand than it was before."

As he plans his presidential transition, Trump remains involved in several of
his private enterprises.

He held a meeting at Trump Tower with three business partners building a Trump
property south of Mumbai. His new hotel in Washington, just blocks from the
White House, last week invited about 100 foreign diplomats to hear a sales
pitch.

It also raised eyebrows when Trump's daughter Ivanka, a vice president at the
Trump Organization, attended his meeting last week with the Japanese prime
minister.

While no statute specifically requires divestment by the president, all of them
in modern history have put their assets under independent management, generally
through a blind trust.

The concern is to avoid running afoul - in actuality or appearance - of laws
against bribery and other forms of corruption in dealings with corporations,
foreign entities and powerful interests.

Trump noted that he has turned the management of his businesses over to his
children, giving him a requisite distance from the operation, but he protested:
"If it were up to some people, I would never, ever see my daughter Ivanka
again."

But his comments fueled more criticism.

"Donald Trump campaigned against a culture of self-enrichment in Washington and
pledged to 'drain the swamp,' but made clear today that he doesn't think the
rules apply to him," Democratic National Committee communications director Adam
Hodge said in a statement. "He fully intends to use the Oval Office to expand
his family's wealth."

In disavowing the alt-right movement, Trump also came to the defense of his
campaign's chief executive, Stephen K. Bannon, whom he intends to bring into the
White House as his chief strategist.

Bannon is on a leave of absence as chairman of the website Breitbart News, a
leading voice of the alt-right movement. In a recent interview with the Wall
Street Journal, Bannon conceded that the alt-right has "some racial and
anti-Semitic overtones," but he insisted he does not hold those views.

The president-elect defended Bannon. "If I thought he was a racist or alt-right
or any of the things, the terms we could use, I wouldn't even think about hiring
him," Trump said, adding that such accusations are "very hard on" Bannon,
"because it's not him."

Trump also suggested that he might make his son-in-law Jared Kushner, an
observant Jew, a special envoy to work on brokering peace in the Middle East.

Kushner, a publishing and real estate executive with no background in
international diplomacy, "would be very good at it," Trump said. "I would love
to be able to be the one that made peace with Israel and the Palestinians."

Trump also used the session to air his grievances with the campaign coverage of
the newspaper, which he frequently refers to as "the failing New York Times."
Shortly before the session, he had announced via Twitter that he was canceling
the meeting, but he then reversed himself.

He tempered his criticism with praise, however, and at one point called the
Times "a great great American jewel," according to a tweet by Julie Davis, who
covers the White House for the newspaper.

During the session, he also softened his frequent threat to reopen libel laws
and use them more aggressively against news outlets that write critical things
about him.

His reconsideration, he said, came after he discussed the issue with an
associate who told him, "You know, you might be sued a lot more.' I said, 'You
know, I hadn't thought of that.'"

Shortly after the interview, Trump departed for Palm Beach, Fla., where he plans
to take a break from transition planning and spend Thanksgiving at his
Mar-a-Lago estate.

However, Trump tweeted that he is closing in on another Cabinet selection: His
onetime presidential rival, retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, as secretary of
housing and urban development.

Carson told Fox News: "It certainly is something that has been a long-term
interest of mine and I'll be thinking and praying about it seriously over the
holiday."

karen.tumulty@washpost.com

Jerry Markon and Elise Viebeck contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             836 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

Presidents don't prosecute

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 475 words


THE NATION ought to be relieved that President-elect Donald Trump has decided
not to press his campaign pledge to criminally investigate rival Hillary Clinton
for her handling of email while secretary of state and for the activities of the
Clinton Foundation. A drawn-out probe, fueled by Mr. Trump from the White House,
would invariably become a political circus, take on the overtones of vendetta
and deepen the wounds of the election. It would represent a continuation of the
reckless "lock her up" chants by Mr. Trump's campaign crowds, a mantra that
suggested a Trump administration would run roughshod over the  rule of law.

It would also fly in the face of the conclusion already drawn by FBI Director
James B. Comey after a thorough investigation of Ms. Clinton's use of a private
email server while secretary of state. Mr. Comey said that no reasonable
prosecutor would bring a case against Ms. Clinton based on the available
evidence.

With the presidential campaign ended, Mr. Trump seems to have concluded that the
legal pursuit of Ms. Clinton or former president Bill Clinton would be a legal
and political loser. "It would be very, very divisive for the country," he told
the New York Times on Tuesday. "My inclination," he said, "would be, for
whatever power I have on the matter, is to say let's go forward. This has been
looked at for so long, ad  nauseam."

But even in his welcome rethinking, it was not clear that Mr. Trump understands
the principle of justice insulated from political control. His statement
contained only a glimmer of recognition that, as president, it should not be for
him to decide whether criminal prosecutions are undertaken. The law enforcement
system and the U.S. attorneys who investigate and prosecute federal crimes are
supposed to be independent, free from interference by the White House or anyone
else. The president's role is to appoint an attorney general and set broad
political priorities.

In the case of Ms. Clinton's emails, Mr. Comey has already made a determination;
Mr. Trump's statement suggested he will not, improperly, seek to reverse it once
in office. Separately, there may be ongoing investigations into the Clinton
Foundation. If so, they should be left to the professionals at the FBI and
career prosecutors at the Justice Department.

In his career as a brassy and pugilistic tycoon, Mr. Trump often gave the
impression he saw the law as just another tool for advancing his personal
interests or retaliating against his foes. Once he sits in the Oval Office, he
must behave - and think - differently. His apparent decision not to pursue Ms.
Clinton is a step in the right direction. But given his past behavior and
campaign statements, it remains incumbent on Mr. Trump to show that he fully
accepts the U.S. constitutional mandate of impartial justice and a political
system ruled by law.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             837 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

A principled position on Mr. Garland

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 247 words


Regarding the Nov. 21 news article "Final, faint hope to force vote on Garland
dashed":

It is manifestly clear that Senate Republicans' refusal to take up President
Obama's nomination of Judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court has further
inflamed partisan passions in our beloved country. The big question is how
Democrats should respond when Republicans hold the Senate and the White House
and can presumably appoint anyone they like to fill the vacant seat.

In this case, it is instructive to remember first lady Michelle Obama's words:
"When they go low, we go high." Following this advice, Democrats could take a
principled position on Supreme Court nominations under a President Donald Trump.
They should offer that either hearings are held and an up-or-down vote taken on
the Garland nomination in the lame-duck session or Democrats will filibuster all
future nominees to the court until after the next presidential election. Several
Republican senators were threatening to filibuster a President Hillary Clinton's
appointments, so Democrats could use their own words against them to justify
their action.

Hearings and a vote on Mr. Garland would offer our country an opportunity to see
that democratic traditions and conventions honed over 200 years of hard-fought
battles will not be left in the dustbin of history and that our public officials
are, despite all evidence to the contrary, capable of living up to our best
expectations of them.

Gary Rucinski , Newton, Mass.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             838 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

In the fashion world, Trump ties ignite activism

BYLINE: Robin Givhan

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C03

LENGTH: 994 words


From the presidential campaign to the transition of power, fashion has been a
point of tension and protest - what people were wearing, where it was made, who
was selling it and what name was on the label.

Hillary Clinton's white pantsuits had some folks recalling suffragettes, and her
rainbow of matchy-matchy ensembles inspired others into a flash-mob dance. The
clothing and accessory businesses of Donald Trump and his daughter, Ivanka, drew
boycotts in response to his derogatory statements about minorities, women and
immigrants.

Since the election, Trump outrage has only grown in the fashion world. Even
brands that don't bear the Trump name but whose executives voiced support for
his stance on trade policy have received a torrent of condemnation on social
media and beyond.

Designer Sophie Theallet, who has dressed Michelle Obama, declared that she will
take a principled pass on dressing Melania Trump - if the soon-to-be first lady
should ask for her help, that is. And Theallet encouraged other designers to
follow suit:

"Our bottom line is not just about money," she wrote in an open letter last
week. "The rhetoric of racism, sexism, and xenophobia unleashed by her husband's
presidential campaign are incompatible with the shared values we live by. I
encourage my fellow designers to do the same."

So far, Melania Trump does not appear to have worked directly with any designer
for her public wardrobe - none are claiming credit for the clothes she has worn
for big public moments - but has instead shopped retail. So if Melania decided
to hop on Matchesfashion.com to buy a Theallet dress, there's nothing the
designer could do about it. Theallet's point is that she will not create one-off
garments for Melania nor tout any association with the former model.

In contrast, Patagonia is aiming to take a stand without being political. But is
that even possible?

The privately held outdoor-gear clothier, whose catalogues feature wind-chapped
athletes summiting mountain peaks, plans to donate 100 percent of its global
online and in-store sales from Black Friday - the day after Thanksgiving,
traditionally one of the biggest shopping days of the year - to environmental
causes.

The idea emerged from a brainstorming session as the company considered how to
respond to the installation of a commander in chief who has called climate
change a myth. "We wanted to do something on Black Friday to make a big
statement, to fund grass-roots activism and engagement," said Patagonia chief
executive Rose Marcario. "We shouldn't let anyone of any political stripe
destroy our planet."

Since 1985, the company has donated 1 percent of net annual sales to
environmental causes. To date, it has raised about $74 million, with the typical
donation to an organization being less than $25,000. Last year, about 800 groups
benefited. Marcario estimates that Black Friday sales of its parkas, thermal
underwear and backpacks will bring in more than $2 million. In the past,
Patagonia, which describes itself as an "activist company," has campaigned for
clear labeling of genetically modified foods and for the removal of "old,
derelict and particularly harmful dams."

"I think most of our core customers understand what the brand is about,"
Marcario said when asked whether the company was expecting blowback from Trump
supporters.

Meanwhile, a San Francisco marketing executive is telling folks to stand up for
what they believe in by boycotting not just Trump brands but the retailers that
sell those brands, the folks who own those retailers and anything else those
titans might control. Last month, Shannon Coulter launched #grabyourwallet, a
social-media campaign that includes a list of major retailers that carry
Trump-branded merchandise, including Macy's, Bloomingdale's, Amazon, Neiman
Marcus and Lord & Taylor.

"I've never boycotted before," Coulter said. But after seeing the "Access
Hollywood" videotape, in which Trump made light of sexually assaulting women,
she was browsing the Nordstrom website and saw pages of Ivanka Trump
merchandise.

"The tipping point was when Ivanka Trump returned to the campaign trail,"
Coulter said. "Professional women like myself had been willing to cut her a lot
of slack. ... Regardless of political affiliation, she's his daughter." But the
more Ivanka promoted her father under the umbrella of empowering women, the more
Coulter fumed. Her boycott list was born.

And it has only gotten longer. It's focused not simply on protesting a brand but
an entire web of people and industries. (She considered boycotting The
Washington Post because owner Jeffrey P. Bezos also owns Amazon, which sells
Ivanka Trump dresses and Donald Trump ties. But after conducting an online poll,
Coulter decided not to target the newspaper because she respected its
investigative reporting during the campaign.) In Coulter's perfect world, she
would be able to "shop the stores I love with a clear conscience and no bad
memories." She has had several victories, including Shoes.com tweeting that it
had removed Ivanka Trump footwear from its website.

On Black Friday, Coulter plans to enlist her supporters to flood the
customer-service lines of targeted stores to ask them to dump their Trump
merchandise.

In the aftermath of the election, it's not just Trump products in the
bull's-eye. It's also New Balance sneakers. The company manufactures in the
United States and has opposed the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement.
"The Obama administration turned a deaf ear to us and frankly, with
President-elect Trump, we feel things are going to move in the right direction,"
Matthew LeBretton, New Balance's vice president of public affairs, said in an
interview with the Wall Street Journal. Those remarks inspired some folks to
post photos of themselves on social media tossing their New Balance sneakers
into the trash.

Fashion is not just about economics, aesthetics, culture. It's now a litmus test
for one's politics.

robin.givhan@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             839 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 751 words

IRAQ

Airstrike destroys fourth bridge in Mosul

An airstrike by a U.S.-led coalition on Wednesday "disabled" a fourth bridge
across the Tigris River in Mosul, leaving only one intact crossing the northern
Iraqi city and further disrupting the Islamic State militant group's supply
lines.

The Islamic State-run Amaq news agency and an Iraqi military commander in Mosul
reported the pre-dawn airstrike, the second to target a bridge this week. Two
other bridges were destroyed by airstrikes last month.

The airstrike was followed by intense fighting in an eastern Mosul neighborhood
where Iraq's special forces are slowly advancing toward the city center,
hampered by suicide car bombings, snipers and concern about the safety of
civilians.

The Tigris runs through the center of Mosul, and until now most of the fighting
has been on the eastern bank. Iraqi forces are expected to use pontoon bridges
when they reach the river.

Mosul, which fell to the Islamic State in summer 2014, is still home to more
than 1 million people. The United Nations says that at least 68,000 people have
fled the fighting there.

Meanwhile, seven attacks in and around the capital, Baghdad, killed at least 14
and wounded 47, said police and health officials.

- Associated Press

NETHERLANDS

Populist lawmaker slams trial as 'charade'

Populist anti-Islam lawmaker Geert Wilders delivered a fiery closing statement
Wednesday at his hate speech trial, slamming his prosecution as a "charade, a
disgrace for the Netherlands, a mockery for our society" that threatens freedom
of speech.

Wilders, whose party is riding high in Dutch opinion polls, told a three-judge
panel sitting in a heavily guarded courtroom on the outskirts of Amsterdam that,
as an elected lawmaker, he must be able to talk about the "mega-Moroccan
problem" in the Netherlands and would not be muzzled by what he branded a
political trial.

In an address that sounded as much like a campaign speech ahead of parliamentary
elections in March as a legal defense, Wilders cast himself as part of a
swelling anti-establishment movement worldwide that has manifested itself in
Britain's June vote to leave the European Union and Donald Trump's recent
victory in the U.S. presidential election.

The prosecution centers on comments Wilders made before and after Dutch
municipal elections in 2014. At one meeting in a Hague cafe, he asked supporters
whether they wanted more or fewer Moroccans in the Netherlands. That sparked a
chant of "Fewer! Fewer! Fewer!" - to which he replied, "We'll take care of it."

Prosecutors say that Wilders, who has been acquitted in another hate speech
trial for his outspoken criticism of Islam, overstepped the limits of free
speech by specifically targeting Moroccans.

- Associated Press

PHILIPPINES

Military drills with U.S. to be reduced next year

The Philippine armed forces chief said Wednesday that five military exercises
with the United States, including at least two major naval drills, will be
scrapped next year at the direction of President Rodrigo Duterte.

Gen. Ricardo Visaya said U.S. officials respected the Philippines's proposal to
reduce the number of drills to 258, five fewer than this year's exercises.

Visaya said the scrapped drills include an amphibious landing exercise and
cooperation-afloat readiness and training, both major naval drills.

He said next year's exercises will focus on humanitarian assistance, disaster
relief and counterterrorism efforts.

Duterte has said that he wants to chart a foreign policy less oriented toward
Washington and expand security ties with China and Russia.

- Associated Press

Rare thunderstorm asthma kills 4 in Australia:  A rare condition known as
thunderstorm asthma sent hundreds of people to hospitals in Australia's
second-largest city, and four deaths have been confirmed. The wild thunderstorm
in Melbourne caused rain-sodden ryegrass pollen to explode and disperse over the
city, triggering asthma attacks in some who had never suffered from asthma.

More than 1,000 fighters from Iran killed in Syria, report says:  More than
1,000 fighters from Iran have been killed in the Syrian civil war, according to
a semiofficial Iranian news agency that cited figures from an official. Tasnim
quoted Mohammad Ali Shahidi as saying that "the number of martyred defenders of
shrines ... has passed ... 1,000." Shahidi, who runs a foundation that supports
families of those killed in conflicts, did not elaborate. Iran has been a
staunch ally of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria's war.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             840 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Cities of the West are bulwarks against right-wing nationalism, experts say

BYLINE: Ishaan Tharoor;

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 1217 words


Toward the end of October, Sadiq Khan, the first Muslim mayor of London,
addressed an event that commemorated the 80th anniversary of the Battle of Cable
Street, a famous street protest in the British capital that saw an alliance of
local Jewish residents, Irish dockworkers, and other laborers and leftists
thwart a planned fascist march.

The clashes at Cable Street, which took place at a time when Nazism was on the
rise, are remembered as a historic turning point in Britain's fight against the
politics of division and hate, a powerful moment when people from disparate
communities defended their city and found strength together.

"This story of solidarity and social integration has inspired many people over
the last 80 years and should continue to inspire us now," Khan said. "London
today is more diverse than ever before and on the whole is a shining example of
how people from different backgrounds can live side-by-side."

But his remarks were delivered under a cloud. In many countries in the West, the
agenda of ultranationalists seems to be outpacing those of politicians such as
Khan, who represent vast, multicultural cities.

The modern-day inheritors of the legacy of 1930s fascism - what the heroes of
Cable Street rose up against - are in the ascendancy. In Austria, a presidential
candidate from a party founded by former Nazis stands on the brink of victory in
elections in early December. In France, Marine Le Pen, leader of the National
Front, a party long associated with neo-fascism, is a key player in presidential
elections next year. In the United States, the roots of Donald Trump's appeal
stretch back to the 19th-century Know Nothings, but his shocking triumph has
been cheered by fringe neo-Nazis as well as the Ku Klux Klan.

In Khan's Britain, anti-immigrant sentiment and the campaigning of far-right
populist politicians led in part to the country's June vote for a Brexit, or
quitting the European Union. The stunning electoral verdict was framed by
analysts as a rejection of cosmopolitan elites.

"There are people in New York that feel closer to people in London and in Berlin
than they do to people in Kansas and in Colorado," Stephen K. Bannon, the
ideologue tapped to counsel Trump in the White House, grumbled at a meeting with
European conservatives two years ago. "And they have more of this elite
mentality that they're going to dictate to everybody how the world's going to be
run."

Trump's campaign harped on the supposed evil of "globalism," rhetoric that
helped win him the support of disaffected rural white voters. The detached
liberals of the big cities were going to get their comeuppance.

Watching the U.S. election from afar, Le Pen's chief strategist, Florian
Philippot, chortled on Twitter: "Their world is crumbling. Ours is just being
built."

But "their" world - that of multiculturalism and the metropolis - isn't quite
crumbling. In the United States, a host of mayors from major cities have
signaled their willingness to push back against the proposed policies of the
president-elect, including Trump's stated intent to round up and deport millions
of undocumented migrants.

Bill de Blasio, the mayor of New York, has insisted that municipal authorities
will refuse to cooperate should the federal government under Trump seek to
obtain information on undocumented people listed on city databases.

"We are not going to sacrifice a half-million people who live among us," de
Blasio said. "We're not going to tear families apart. We will do everything we
know how to do to resist that."

Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel and Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti  made similar
statements.

It's not just on issues of deportations where cities and the Trump
administration may clash. If a conservative Supreme Court overturns  Roe v. Wade
, cities can defend the abortion rights of their residents. And in the face of
policy paralysis on a national level, cities are pushing through larger
progressive reforms: Seattle recently approved an ordinance for a $15-an-hour
minimum wage, which is more than double the federally mandated figure; local
politicians, including former New York mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, are leading
the political fight on climate change even as climate-change skeptics enter the
White House.

No matter the ascension of a certain brand of nationalist politics, the reality
in much of the West is that countries are becoming both more urban and more
diverse.

Cities aren't just bastions of jet-setting Davos men: They are home to the
fullest range of a nation's diversity. The politicians at the helms of cities
such as New York or London have to act on a set of concerns - be it addressing
income inequity, reckoning with housing shortages or defending inclusive
societies - that echo across borders.

"Increasingly, nation-states look parochial and backward, and cities are
actually cosmopolitan and much more broad in their understanding," Benjamin
Barber, one of the premier theorists of the global city and author of "If Mayors
Ruled the World," told WorldViews.

Everywhere, cities are the engines of the economy - worldwide, they contribute
about 80 percent of global gross domestic product. More than 80 percent of the
American population lives in urban areas. And the populations in medium-to-large
cities overwhelmingly tend to vote against the platforms of right-wing
populists. Yet because of the nature of federal elections - including the
weighted system of the Electoral College - the agenda of cities can get
sidelined by right-wing populism.

"There's a fundamental asymmetry between what cities represent and what they are
able to accomplish politically," Barber said.

But if reactionary national politics puts the progress of a city at risk, then
there's the chance we'll see more resistance from mayors. Citing powers already
afforded to mayors in the United States, Khan has sought more authority in the
wake of the Brexit vote, which he thinks jeopardizes London's economic future.

That includes greater control over tax revenue. "London's population is the same
size as Wales and Scotland combined, but we have far less control over how our
capital is run," Khan said in September.

Barber points to the growing clout of a number of forums in which municipal
authorities are coordinating on a global scale. This includes the C40 Group of
cities mobilizing around climate change, chaired by Parisian Mayor Anne Hidalgo,
as well as the Global Parliament of Mayors, a body Barber helped found that
seeks to be something similar to a United Nations of cities.

Globalization has its crises, but Barber insists that the desire of
ultranationalists such as Trump to throw up walls and hide behind borders flies
in the face of the forces shaping an interconnected world.

"These reactionaries," Barber said, "are the last wave in a series of political
attempts to pretend that sovereign states still work." The nation-state isn't
about to disappear, he cautioned. But Barber envisions a future where there will
be a "rebalancing of the relationship" between nations and cities that will
enable greater local governance.

"The right-wing nationalism of the Trumps," Barber said, "will become not so
much toxic obstacles to history, but an increasingly obsolete expression."

ishaan.tharoor@washpost.com

ï...OEExcerpted from washingtonpost.com/news/ worldviews

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             841 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Trump spurs fears, hopes for some with ACA coverage

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 1143 words


Some worry about effects of scrapping health-care act;  others relish change

A 30-year-old cancer survivor in a small West Virginia town worries how she
would pay for treatment if a tumor returned. A Chicago doctor wonders whether
her hospital would cut back on care for ill or premature infants. In Northern
Virginia, the head of a small nonprofit clinic lies awake at night fearing a
surge of uninsured patients she couldn't afford to take in.

Two weeks after the unexpected election of Donald Trump, the incoming
administration and the Republicans who control Congress have defined few
specifics for how they will carry out their promise to eliminate the Affordable
Care Act. Yet the shift in Washington's political geometry already is stoking
anxiety among many of the 11 million people who have gained private insurance
under the law, as well as among those who help care for them.

At the same time, some Trump voters with ACA health plans relish the idea of
shedding the law. "How could it be worse?" asked Carl Galloni, who sells and
installs garage doors in North Carolina. "My man won, so I'm not frightened [of]
what he's going to do."

Such clashing perspectives offer a ground-level view of the two Americas exposed
by a singularly polarizing presidential campaign - a campaign driven by profound
disagreements over basic values, including the role of government.

On few matters is the political divide as pure as it is on health care. Early
this fall, nearly 9 in 10 Democrats said in a survey for Harvard University and
Politico that they thought the government has a major role in improving the
health system, and 80 percent said the ACA is working well. Among Republicans,
only about a quarter said the government has a major role, while an equal share
said the government has none. Nearly 90 percent said the ACA is working poorly.

These beliefs "correlate perfectly with the [Hillary] Clinton versus Trump
vote," said Robert J. Blendon, a Harvard professor who specializes in public
opinion on health issues.

In Fairmont, W.Va., Mina Schultz voted for Clinton. As she works at a community
health center there, helping patients sign up for ACA coverage and her state's
expanded version of Medicaid, she sees firsthand how political health care has
become. Some of her clients are now asking if it all is going to go away.

For Schultz, the fate of the law also is intensely personal. In 2011, when she
was 25, she assumed she'd go uninsured for several months between graduate
school and joining the Peace Corps. But her parents had heard that the fledgling
ACA let them include her on their insurance policy through age 26, and they did.

That May, three weeks after getting her master's degree in French, a recent pain
in her right knee was diagnosed as bone cancer. So she happened to be insured
when, instead of going overseas, she spent the next year in and out of the
hospital for nine rounds of chemotherapy and a total knee replacement.

She moved back home to Fairmont when she was 27, first taking a crummy job that
came with insurance, and then, because she'd become intrigued by the health-care
system, finding the enrollment-counseling position at the Monongahela Valley
Association of health centers. Her job, created through a federal grant, does
not provide health benefits. Schultz signed herself up for an ACA Blue
Cross-Blue Shield plan.

These days, in addition to work, she is pursuing a second master's degree - in
health policy. She still needs follow-up tests and medicine, including for the
chronic kidney disease that is a remnant of her treatment. She also deals with
anxiety   and, since the election, a new fear: the future of her insurance and
that of the people she has helped to choose health plans.

The president-elect, she knows, has been saying that the government should
continue to forbid insurers to refuse people with preexisting medical problems -
problems like her bone cancer. She also knows that, if the ACA ends, insurers
may be able to revert to setting annual or lifetime limits on customers'
coverage.

"There's not a day that goes by that I don't think, 'What if my cancer comes
back?'" Schultz said. The prospect of capped insurance during a second bout of
such expensive treatment "is terrifying. ... I'm somewhat panicked."

But in Jamestown, N.C., a suburb of 3,000 between Greensboro and High Point,
Galloni, 61, is hopeful. He has never changed his party affiliation since
registering as a Democrat at 18, but he often crosses party lines and this month
was enthusiastic in his vote for Trump.

A small-business man, whose company consists of his wife and four employees, he
is fed up with the ACA marketplace - the bureaucracy, the diminishing choice and
the spiking price. Until now, Galloni has gotten federal subsidies because he
wasn't taking a salary from his company for several years. But he's decided to
draw some income again, so the subsidies are going away. The monthly premiums to
cover him and his wife will leap from about $400 this year to $2,000 in January
if he keeps his Blue Cross plan. He isn't sure yet whether he will.

What gives him hope is the talk he's heard from Trump about letting insurers
sell health plans across state lines. "Why can't I go three miles into Virginia
and get my health insurance there if it's cheaper?" he said. "Competition just
makes the world go around."

Among health-care professionals, the possibility that the ACA could soon be
dismantled is setting off jitters, especially in places where many patients are
poor.

At the University of Chicago's children's hospital, three-fourths of the babies
in the neonatal intensive care unit have mothers on Medicaid. Illinois is one of
31 states that expanded Medicaid under the law. Bree Andrews, a pediatrician and
neonatologist there who runs a center for healthy families, worries that a loss
of extra Medicaid money the ACA has funneled into the hospital might mean fewer
social workers or lactation specialists.

"I think it's going to throw us into free fall," Andrews said. "Neonatal care is
expensive, and there is a lot of it. If hospitals don't know how they will get
paid ... I wonder what will have to go."

Hundreds of miles away in a Virginia suburb of Washington, Nancy White fears
what will happen at the Arlington Free Clinic, where she became director a year
ago. The clinic relies on donations and volunteers and can accept only about
2,000 patients at a time. It knows of about 200 patients who have gotten
subsidized ACA plans and shifted to private doctors. Many more never arrived at
the clinic's doors because of coverage they found through the law.

If the new president and the Congress end the subsidies or the marketplaces, the
clinic would not have the capacity to take back newly uninsured patients, White
said. "It's what's been what's been keeping me up at night."

amy.goldstein@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             842 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Immigrant students defended by colleges

BYLINE: Nick Anderson

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1172 words


With DACA's future up in the air, so too are thousands of educations

Hundreds of college and university leaders have mobilized in recent days to
defend students who immigrated to the United States as children, without legal
permission, and now face a swirl of questions about their future under
President-elect Donald Trump.

The Obama administration has aided these undocumented students since 2012,
through a program called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. DACA, as it is
known, shields immigrants temporarily from deportation if they came to United
States before their 16th birthday and meet other requirements. Beneficiaries are
able to obtain a work permit. Opponents denounce DACA as executive overreach.

The Trump campaign pledged to "immediately terminate" Obama's "illegal executive
amnesties." Trump transition spokesman Jason Miller reiterated that position in
an email.

"The President-elect has consistently pledged to rescind all illegal and
unconstitutional executive orders from the current administration, and this is
one of them," Miller wrote Tuesday when asked about DACA.

What would happen next is a crucial question for students such as Danna Chavez
Calvi, of Northern Virginia, and thousands like her nationwide who felt thrown
into sudden limbo after the Republican's victory in the Nov. 8 presidential
election.

"The uncertainty has skyrocketed to an unimaginable level," Chavez Calvi said.

Now 24, the senior at George Mason University came to the United States from
Bolivia with her parents when she was 8 years old. They overstayed their tourist
visas. "My family became undocumented," she said.

Chavez Calvi followed a path familiar to a huge group of immigrant students many
call "Dreamers." She graduated in 2011 from Falls Church High School in Fairfax
County, Va., went to Northern Virginia Community College, then transferred to
GMU. She plans to graduate in December with a bachelor's degree in communication
and a minor in Spanish.

Along the way, she applied for and received DACA status.

That status enabled her to obtain a driver's license and qualify for GMU's
in-state tuition, which is about $20,000 a year lower than the out-of-state
rate. She became a leader in Mason Dreamers, a group that supports undocumented
immigrant students. She plans to join Teach for America for two years and then
pursue a graduate degree in policy.

"Everything turned out great, until this point," she said.

Trump, who during his campaign promised to crack down against illegal
immigration, said shortly after the election that he plans to focus first on
rapidly deporting 2 million to 3 million undocumented immigrants who have
criminal records. Under federal guidelines, immigrants who have been convicted
of a felony or significant misdemeanor are ineligible for DACA.

GMU, Virginia's largest public university, enrolls about 34,000 students.
Officials estimate at least 300 have DACA status.

"The exact number is unclear because at least some DACA students are reluctant
to make their status known," GMU President Angel Cabrera said. "The Mason DACA
community includes some of our most accomplished students. They have excelled
both inside and outside of the classroom."

Cabrera issued a plea to the president-elect.

"We hope that the new administration recognizes the value of these students to
our community and to the nation," he wrote. "They are filled with talent and
promise and, if given the chance, will surely contribute significantly to the
good of the United States, which is the only home that most of them have ever
known."

Cabrera also joined more than 200 college and university leaders in signing a
statement this week that urges preserving and expanding DACA. The statement did
not name Trump but appeared to be addressed to him.

"To our country's leaders we say that DACA should be upheld, continued, and
expanded," the statement said. "We are prepared to meet with you to present our
case."

Organized by Pomona College in California, the statement was signed by leaders
of most Ivy League schools and an array of other public and private
institutions.

Among the signers in Virginia, Maryland and the District of Columbia were
presidents John J. DeGioia of Georgetown University, Steven Knapp of George
Washington University, Patricia McGuire of Trinity Washington University, Teresa
A. Sullivan of the University of Virginia, Ronald J. Daniels of Johns Hopkins
University and Wallace Loh of the University of Maryland at College Park.

At U-Md., with about 38,000 students, officials say 113 report having DACA
status.

"I have a strong and unequivocal personal commitment to protect all of our
students, including those who attend our university under the Dream Act and
DACA," Loh said. "The job of any president is to provide an education for every
student and I will be working with my colleagues, both in Maryland and across
the country, on how we can best protect the legal standing of these outstanding
students, and let them continue with their transformative education."

Opponents of DACA say rescinding a program that Congress did not authorize would
send an important signal of support for lawful immigration and the integrity of
the nation's borders.

"The fundamental issue is fairness at every level," said Dan Stein, president of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform. "If universities want to form a
coalition and lobby Congress to pass legislation to give immigration benefits to
DACA recipients, they're within their rights to do that."

More than 700,000 undocumented immigrants have obtained DACA protection since
2012, federal officials say. But there is no national count of DACA students
currently enrolled in college. Many DACA students are drawn to public
universities in states that allow them to qualify for in-state tuition
discounts. Some attend private colleges, like Pomona, that encourage them to
apply and pledge to meet their financial need.

In the nation's largest state, the University of California system counts more
than 3,700 undocumented students. Many have DACA protection. The UC president,
Janet Napolitano, signed the memorandum that established DACA when she served as
Obama's secretary of homeland security.

In the days since the election, demonstrators on many campuses have urged
colleges to establish themselves as "sanctuaries" for those vulnerable to
deportation.

On Monday, Columbia University's provost, John H. Coatsworth, told the campus
community that the Ivy League school in New York "will neither allow immigration
officials on our campuses without a warrant, nor share information on the
immigration status of undocumented students with those officials unless required
by subpoena or court order, or authorized by a student."

Chavez Calvi said she and others will continue a public push to support DACA
students. Staying quiet is not option, she said.

"There is a reason we all opted to stay in this country. We have strong ties
here," she said. "I can't think of any friends I know who want to step back into
the shadows."

nick.anderson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             843 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Md. college concerned about 'USA' theme

BYLINE: Susan Svrluga

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1404 words


On the morning before an annual celebration for the senior class at Loyola
University Maryland, student leaders apologized for this year's theme: "Party in
the USA."

"As an organization, we want to extend our deepest apologies to those that were
hurt by this theme and the negative impact it had on them," an email from the
Student Government Association to the Class of 2017 read. "Although it was not
our intention to create such a divisive climate, we understand that the impact
of this decision is much greater than our initial intention."

Some students were shocked that a patriotic party could be considered "divisive"
and that an administrator had advised student leaders to reconsider it after the
presidential election.

Emily Burke, a senior and president of the Loyola Republicans, said that she was
disappointed: "I was upset to see that that's the standpoint the school was
going to take - that they felt they needed to apologize in some way for being
proud to be an American. The theme was supposed to be unifying, and it should
have been."

It was another sign that in the aftermath of the presidential campaign and the
election of Donald Trump, colleges are particularly unsettled places. In the
days since the election, emotions have been raw at many schools. Anti-Trump
protests erupted on some campuses.

There were ugly incidents targeting minority students at many colleges, with
slurs yelled, Muslim students shoved, white-supremacist fliers posted, people
told to "go back to Mexico."

At a few schools, students destroyed American flags in protest.

At Loyola University Maryland, several students said, the campus remained calm.
The small, private, Jesuit Catholic school is close-knit, said Bradley Schober,
a junior who is a leader with the Loyola Republicans. He said people in his
group are friends with Loyola Maryland Democrats and that they hang out together
all the time.

Members of the senior class had chosen the "Party in the USA" theme, which is
the title of a pop song, and planned to dress up in patriotic clothes and
celebrate  the United States for the "Senior 200s," which marks the number of
days left until graduation. In a photo from last year's party, students wearing
American flag shirts and bows in their hair posed smiling in front of a model of
the Statue of Liberty, while someone dressed in Colonial attire was talking with
friends nearby.

The student body president and several other members of the Student Government
Association did not respond to requests for comment; one referred questions to a
school spokesman.

The Daily Caller reported that a senior administrator emailed student leaders
that the theme sounded "alienating, divisive and harmful," and another warned it
might give students an opportunity to dress or act in an oppressive way.

Nicholas Alexopulos, a university spokesman, said those officials would not be
available to comment, and he declined to provide the emails that went to
students. He said in a written statement that the "'Party in the USA' theme
encouraged students to dress in ways that celebrate America. Loyola University
Maryland supports and seeks events like this one where students celebrate their
Loyola pride and our nation."

He said school officials contacted student government leaders and suggested
changing the timing of the party or altering the theme to ensure it would be
welcoming to everyone in attendance.

"The SGA made a decision on its own to proactively contact the senior class to
acknowledge the concerns of some of their classmates and to ask all members of
the class to remain committed to respect for one another, open dialogue, and
Loyola's other core values as a Jesuit university," Alexopulos said. "Loyola
University Maryland is proud of our students for recognizing that this was an
opportunity to strengthen a community where everyone feels welcomed, included,
and supported. We continue to work as a university to ensure all student
viewpoints are respected and heard, and we hope students continue to find ways
to have constructive dialogue around the most important issues of our time."

The email from student government to the campus community read, in part: "There
are those who see the 'Party in the USA' theme as a way for us to come together
and celebrate all that the United States has to offer. However, we also
recognize there are students who do not agree with this theme, given the current
political climate and the rhetoric that still remains even after the election."

The email emphasized that the party is meant to be inclusive and concluded by
urging students to "come as you are and come together," in costume or not,
uphold the school's values and be respectful to all.

The executive board of the Loyola Maryland Democrats said the group wouldn't
comment on the Senior 200s because they had no role in the choice of theme and
weren't in contact with the administration or student government about changing
it.

But they noted: "As a political club on campus, we are acutely aware of the wide
mix of emotions following the presidential election both on our campus and in
our nation. In this moment of tension, our club stands united with students of
all viewpoints and perspectives, races, religions, genders, sexual orientations,
and socioeconomic backgrounds. We value upholding and promoting Loyola's values,
to focus on the common good of all people despite our individual differences. We
continue to support increased public and bipartisan dialogue, and we welcome
invitations for constructive conversation."

On social media, the Loyola Republicans asked for equal treatment from the
administration and faculty: "It should not be acceptable for professors to
attack students and call them unintelligent and hateful because of their
political ideology." They wrote that they understand and support political
dissent, especially in this political climate. "Nevertheless, we cannot support,
nor ignore, the comments made about our nation. To call a theme of 'America,'
one voted on by the senior class, as 'alienating, divisive and harmful' simply
contradicts the founding principles our nation stands for."

Students weren't given the benefit of the doubt, they wrote, and "instead, the
administration rejected an opportunity for us as a school, as a community and as
a nation to come together, and immediately assumed the worst of its students."

Lindsey Rennie, who graduated from Loyola in 2015, said that she and several
dozen other alumni wrote a letter in support of the administration. She has seen
comments on social media from some alumni who felt it was unpatriotic and said
that they would withhold donations to the school for the time being. But she
said that she and others feel the administration was staying true to the
school's core values as a Jesuit university, and they were proud of it.

"This is a school that promotes diversity and inclusion," she said, and "the
concerns of the administration were certainly well founded" given the campus
climate and events happening across the country after the election.

"We have received a few reports of incidents of bias since the election,"
Alexopolus said, noting that he could not confirm or deny anything specific.
"Loyola takes every report of bias very seriously."

The letter to Loyola leaders reads, in part: "Loyola is meant to be a safe space
for students of all races, genders, sexual orientations, nationalities, and
political views. But in the past two weeks alone, we have seen a growing trend
across the country,"  referring to instances of slurs yelled and other
harassment of minorities. "Much of this has been done in the name of America.

" ... When the administration of Loyola expressed concern to students in SGA
about the theme of the senior event, we did not see it as an act against our
country, but rather as an act for, and in solidarity with, Loyola's students.
The concern about changing the theme, we believe, was not to prevent people from
being offended, but to maintain the safety of all Loyola students - physically
and spiritually," the letter said.

Burke said that she is hopeful they can move forward and have open debates with
multiple political viewpoints represented. "I think that's what the school has
wanted," she said.

The party went on as scheduled. Some students wore red, white and blue. Some
wore Trump gear, and some wore Hillary Clinton gear. And, Burke said, "Everybody
had a good time."

susan.svrluga@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             844 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

A new political order in West

BYLINE: James McAuley;Griff Witte

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1690 words

DATELINE: PARIS


center-left loses its grip on europe

Clinton, Democrats join a beleaguered club

PARIS - When Donald Trump shocked the world with an upset victory in the U.S.
presidential election this month,  much of Europe was aghast.

But in at least one critical sense, the result couldn't have been more European:
Across the continent, parties of the center-left that have dominated politics
for decades - and that have given Europe its reputation for generous social
welfare systems - now find themselves beaten, divided and directionless. Hillary
Clinton and the Democrats are just the latest members of a beleaguered club.

In Germany and Britain, once-mighty center-left parties have been badly
diminished, locked out of their nations' top jobs for the foreseeable future. In
Spain and Greece, they have been usurped by newer, more radical alternatives.
And in France and Italy, they're still governing - but their days in power may
be numbered. The rout of the center-left has even extended deep into
Scandinavia, perhaps the world's premier bastion of social democracy.

Overall, the total vote share for the continent's traditional center-left
parties is now at its lowest level since at least World War II. Like the
Democrats, these parties have been marginalized, with little influence over
policy as the right prepares to place its stamp on the Western world in a way
that could endure for decades.

"If the left and the center-left don't get their act together, then we're
looking at a period of very unstable right-wing hegemony," said Alex Callinicos,
a European studies professor at King's College London.

The decline of the European center-left is part of a broader unraveling of the
continent's  mainstream consensus as electorates fracture and a political
kaleidoscope of alternatives emerges.

But unlike the center-left, traditional parties of the center-right have managed
to hold their own amid the populist fury, clinging to power in London, Berlin
and Madrid - with a strong chance next year to take Paris, as well.

As recently as a decade ago, the picture was very different. Britain's Tony
Blair was at the vanguard of a generation of European center-left leaders who
had emulated Bill Clinton's pragmatic Third Way politics and seemed poised to
ride their marriage of social democracy with market liberalization to an
unlimited future of electoral success.

But the Great Recession - and the bumpy, deeply unequal recovery that followed -
fundamentally changed that.

"With the economic crisis, and the negative effects of globalization, the
socialists couldn't convince the populations in their respective countries that
the future lies in a liberal Europe," said Gérard Grunberg, a historian of
socialism at Sciences Po in Paris. "This is the end of the European utopia."

That "utopia" emerged in the aftermath of 1945, when politicians across war-torn
Europe banded together to build a new continent that would never repeat the
grave mistakes of the recent past. This was the genesis of the European Union:
an economic union that was meant to become, at least in theory, committed to the
common cause of social justice, largely a leftist ideal.

If the three decades that followed World War II coincided with the longest
period of growth in Europe's history, voters today see neither leftist economic
policies nor the E.U. itself as necessarily worth preserving. Britain voted to
leave the bloc in June, and separatist movements have spread across the
continent to France, the Netherlands and elsewhere.

To historians, the unlikely abandonment of this former European bedrock is
partly a function of its own achievements.

"It was a failure by success," said Timothy Snyder, a  historian of 20th-century
Europe at Yale University. "Once the left becomes not revolutionary but
transformative, and once that transformation succeeds, people start taking it
for granted.

"Europeans take for granted that they will have public education, free health
care and social services," he said. "And the left doesn't get votes on this
anymore."

The marginalization of Europe's center-left parties has been consistent across
the continent, although their paths to the political wilderness have varied.

In France, prospects for a leftist victory in presidential elections in 2017
remain bleak. The perceived failure of the Socialist president, FranÃ§ois
Hollande, to respond adequately to a recent string of terrorist attacks has
brought him the lowest approval ratings in modern French history and ignited a
rebellion in his own party.

In particular, Hollande's proposal to strip French citizenship from convicted
terrorists who hold dual nationality outraged fellow leftists, distracting the
party from presenting a united front against its opponents.

Hollande will face a conservative party whose candidates have promised to
bolster national security and bring the country out of economic stagnation. For
nearly the duration of the current Socialist government's tenure, the
unemployment rate has hovered at or above 10 percent.

In prosperous Germany, the Social Democratic Party's years of playing
second-fiddle to the center-right-led government of Chancellor Angela Merkel
have diluted its voice. Analysts give it little prospect for victory in next
year's national elections.

In Italy, the center-left Democratic Party occupies a precarious position. Prime
Minister Matteo Renzi has proposed a host of constitutional revisions, which
have been put to a referendum slated for early December. Renzi has reiterated
his promise to resign from office if he loses the vote, which the latest polls
suggest he will.

In economically devastated Greece, the traditional center-left party, Pasok,
finished no better than fourth in a pair of votes last year that saw its support
drop to the mid-single digits. In both elections, it embarrassingly placed
behind the neo-Nazi Golden Dawn.

But rather than swinging to the right, Greek voters went far left, electing and
then reelecting a government led by the Syriza party, a coalition of
Trotskyites, Maoists and other figures once limited to the revolutionary fringe
who were thrust into power on a pledge to fight austerity and the unforgiving
terms of the country's international bailout.

In Spain, voters have divided almost evenly between the long-standing
center-left party, the Socialists, and an upstart far-left alternative that
didn't exist three years ago, Podemos. As a result of the split, the
center-right People's Party was able to squeak back into power after elections
in June.

Britain's Labour Party - which built the country's vaunted National Health
Service and was riding a streak of 13 years in power as recently as 2010 - has
faced no similar challenge by an upstart party to its left. Instead, the far
left has taken over Labour from within, through the bomb-throwing backbencher
Jeremy Corbyn and his astonishing victory in leadership elections last year.

Corbyn's win came after two straight national election defeats for Labour and a
bout of soul-searching that mirrors the sort of anxious introspection now
sweeping the Democratic Party in the United States.

Faced with the choice of three center-left contenders or the long-shot bid of
Corbyn, Labour members went with a man who had made a career of bucking the
Labour hierarchy and who starkly repudiated the centrism embodied by Tony Blair.

But there's little sign that Labour's lurch to the left has put it any closer to
power. With a possible early election coming next year, polls indicate the party
would lose decisively to the ruling Conservative Party.

Corbyn, meanwhile, has struggled to hold his party together as Labour members of
Parliament have overwhelmingly said they have no confidence in his leadership.
Blair and his allies have argued that Corbyn will simply guide the party to
continued irrelevance.

"You win from the center; you win when you appeal to a broad cross section of
the public; you win when you support business as well as unions," Blair, who
guided the party to three straight national election victories, said in a speech
last year. "You don't win from a traditional leftist position."

But center-left parties have an obligation to try something more radical, said
Callinicos, the European political analyst, because the moderate approach
they've been offering hasn't worked.

"The merger of traditional social democracy with neoliberalism and globalized
free-market policies has fallen apart in fairly disastrous fashion," he said,
suggesting that the turning point was the global financial crash of 2008, when
working-class voters saw their jobs disappear or their wages stagnate even as
the net worth of the wealthy continued to race ahead.

Across Europe, the center-left has had little to offer those voters, who have
looked elsewhere - including the far right.

In Britain's June referendum on the European Union, for instance, working-class
voters in traditional Labour strongholds ignored their party's advice to opt to
stay in, and instead heeded the call of the anti-immigration U.K. Independence
Party to vote out.

Trump's victory in the United States rested at least in part on a similar
phenomenon - a billionaire tycoon using appeals to xenophobia and racism to
scoop up support from voters who no longer believe the party of the working man
has their interests at heart. As in the Brexit vote, Trump won certain key
states with the help of working-class voters who had supported Barack Obama, a
Democrat, in 2012.

One implication of the growing void on Europe's left could be profound political
instability, both within specific countries and geopolitically. Another could be
the emergence of a right-wing stranglehold, based on widespread nostalgia for a
world that, in Snyder's view, never actually existed.

"All these continental parties are nostalgic for the interwar nation-state,
which was a total disaster," he said. "There was never any moment when they were
happy, independent nation-states. There was never such a time, and their
nostalgia is a kind of disguise.

"If you plunge into that abyss," he added, "very bad things lie ahead."

james.mcauley@washpost.com

griff.witte@washpost.com

Witte reported from London.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             845 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The electors should reflect the people's choice

BYLINE: Lawrence Lessig

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 838 words


Lawrence Lessig is a professor at Harvard Law School and the author of
"Republic, Lost: Version 2.0." In 2015, he was a candidate in the Democratic
presidential primary.

Conventional wisdom tells us that the electoral college requires that the person
who lost the popular vote this year must nonetheless become our president. That
view is an insult to our framers. It is compelled by nothing in our
Constitution. It should be rejected by anyone with any understanding of our
democratic traditions - most important, the electors themselves.

The framers believed, as Alexander Hamilton put it, that "the sense of the
people should operate in the choice of the [president]." But no nation had ever
tried that idea before. So the framers created a safety valve on the people's
choice. Like a judge reviewing a jury verdict, where the people voted, the
electoral college was intended to confirm - or not - the people's choice.
Electors were to apply, in Hamilton's words, "a judicious combination of all the
reasons and inducements which were proper to govern their choice" - and then
decide. The Constitution says nothing about "winner take all." It says nothing
to suggest that electors' freedom should be constrained in any way. Instead,
their wisdom - about whether to overrule "the people" or not - was to be free of
political control yet guided by democratic values. They were to be citizens
exercising judgment, not cogs turning a wheel.

Many think we should abolish the electoral college. I'm not convinced that we
should. Properly understood, the electors can serve an important function. What
if the people elect  a Manchurian candidate? Or a child rapist? What if evidence
of massive fraud pervades a close election? It is a useful thing to have a body
confirm the results of a democratic election - so long as that body exercises
its power reflectively and conservatively. Rarely - if ever - should it veto the
people's choice. And if it does, it needs a very good reason.

So, do the electors in 2016 have such a reason?

Only twice in our past has the electoral college selected a president against
the will of the people - once in the 19thcentury and once on the cusp of the
21st. (In 1824, it was Congress that decided the election for John Quincy Adams;
likewise in 1876, it was Congress that gave disputed electoral college votes to
Rutherford B. Hayes.)

In 1888, Benjamin Harrison lost the popular vote to Grover Cleveland but won in
the electoral college, only because Boss Tweed's Tammany Hall turned New York
away from the reformer Cleveland (by fewer than 15,000 votes). In 2000, George
W. Bush lost the popular vote by a tiny fraction - half a percent - and beat Al
Gore in the electoral college by an equally small margin - less than 1 percent.

In both cases, the result violated what has become one of the most important
principles governing our democracy- one person, one vote. In both cases, the
votes of some weighed much more heavily than the votes of others. Today, the
vote of a citizen in Wyoming is four times as powerful as the vote of a citizen
in Michigan. The vote of a citizen in Vermont is three times as powerful as a
vote in Missouri. This denies Americans the fundamental value of a
representative democracy - equal citizenship. Yet nothing in our Constitution
compels this result.

Instead, if the electoral college is to control who becomes our president, we
should take it seriously by understanding its purpose precisely. It is not meant
to deny a reasonable judgment by the people. It is meant to be a circuit breaker
- just in case the people go crazy.

In this election, the people did not go crazy. The winner, by far, of the
popular vote is the most qualified candidate for president in more than a
generation. Like her or not, no elector could have a good-faith reason to vote
against her because of her qualifications. Choosing her is thus plainly within
the bounds of a reasonable judgment by the people.

Yet that is not the question the electors must weigh as they decide how to cast
their ballots. Instead, the question they must ask themselves is whether there
is any good reason to veto the people's choice.

There is not. And indeed, there is an especially good reason for them not to
nullify what the people have said- the fundamental principle of one person, one
vote. We are all citizens equally. Our votes should count equally. And since
nothing in our Constitution compels a decision otherwise, the electors should
respect the equal vote by the people by ratifying it on Dec. 19.

They didn't in 1888 - when Tammany Hall ruled New York and segregation was the
law of the land. And they didn't in 2000 - when in the minds of most, the
election was essentially a tie. Those are plainly precedents against Hillary
Clinton.

But the question today is which precedent should govern today - Tammany Hall and
Bush v. Gore , or one person, one vote?

The framers left the electors free to choose. They should exercise that choice
by leaving the election as the people decided it: in Clinton's favor.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             846 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Trump likely to find generals are a different breed

BYLINE: Greg Jaffe

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1484 words


Retired four-stars being eyed for top posts may challenge style, policy

On the campaign trail he complained that they had been "reduced to rubble." At
other moments he suggested that he might have to fire them all.

Now that Donald Trump is president-elect, a parade of retired four-star generals
has been making its way through Trump Tower and the mogul's New Jersey golf
course.

Trump's sudden infatuation with the military's top brass is part theater, part
necessity and possibly a view into how he will govern. But it also raises a
bigger question: What does Trump, whose military experience consists of military
boarding school and multiple draft deferments, understand about the country's
general officer corps?

At least six former generals are being considered for as many as four top
positions in a Trump administration - a concentration of military brass that
foreign policy experts said is unprecedented in the recent history of the United
States. In their charcoal-gray suits and short haircuts, they look like any
other business executives. But these former officers, most of whom have spent
their adult lives in the military and much of the past 15 years at war, are
unlike the people Trump has encountered in corporate boardrooms. They are also
unlike the politicians and political operatives who have dominated his life
since he declared his intention to run for the White House more than a year ago.

"He's going to find them a strange and alien life form," said retired Army Lt.
Gen. David Barno, who commanded U.S. troops in Afghanistan. "They are motivated
by different things. They have their own ethos that is different from business
executives or entertainment people, and right now I think he's entranced by
that."

The generals enjoy enormous public respect, and their plain-talking style and
deep overseas experience could help add luster to Trump's Cabinet. But the
generals, if chosen for top jobs, could quickly feel put out by Trump's
sometimes-chaotic style, his tendency to repeat untruths and his controversial
views on Islam, torture, U.S. treaty obligations and the laws of war.

When Trump talked about generals on the campaign trail, it was often to
disparage them as political pawns of President Obama. "I know more about ISIS
than the generals do, believe me," Trump said last year, using an acronym for
the Islamic State.

In other moments he has lavished them with over-the-top praise. "They're so much
braver than me," he said at a rally last fall in North Carolina. "I wouldn't
have done what they did. I'm brave in other ways. I'm financially brave."

The president-elect's ideal of generalship frequently seems frozen in amber,
harking back to his high school days at New York Military Academy. He regularly
heralds the toughness of such World War II luminaries as Gen. George S. Patton
and Gen. Douglas MacArthur, both of whom suffered major career setbacks for
bucking authority.

Trump has praised the ruthlessness of Gen. John "Black Jack" Pershing, citing an
apocryphal story in which Pershing is said to have ordered his men to dip 50
bullets in pigs' blood and kill 49 Muslim terrorists in the Philippines during
the early 1900s. One survivor was supposedly set loose to warn the others.

"For 25 years, there wasn't a problem," Trump said. "Okay? Twenty-five years,
there wasn't a problem."

Trump's favorite former general seems to be James "Mad Dog" Mattis, a retired
Marine commander and a top contender for defense secretary whose hard-edge
rhetoric in Iraq and Afghanistan has made him into something of an Internet
meme. "Be polite, be professional, but have a plan to kill everybody you meet,"
he famously told Marines in Iraq.

After their meeting in New Jersey this week, Trump tweeted that Mattis was "A
true General's General!" and "the real deal."

Among Pentagon insiders Mattis is also known for his intensity, smarts and
ability to build strong bonds with allies in the Middle East and Muslim world.

There are many reasons - both practical and political - that Trump finds
generals so attractive. His focus on senior officers to fill out top foreign
policy positions, such as director of national intelligence and secretary of
defense, reflects the president-elect's finely tuned understanding of the
country and his base. "Trump loves generals so much because America loves the
generals," said Phil Carter, an Iraq veteran and senior fellow at the Center for
a New American Security. "Even if he doesn't pick any of them, just meeting with
them in public reflects glory on Trump."

Because the generals are not creatures of Washington, Trump sees them as fellow
outsiders and kindred spirits. Most have spent their lives leading soldiers,
sailors and Marines and can speak with a simplicity and directness that Trump
appreciates and often seems to emulate.

And unlike a large percentage of the Republican Party foreign policy
establishment, the vast majority of retired generals did not sign letters
opposing his candidacy. "They aren't part of the foreign policy swamp," said
Mark Cancian, a retired Marine colonel and senior adviser at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies.

Despite the military's appeal, Trump may be surprised by the generals on matters
of style and policy. Some of the fiercest resistance to enhanced interrogation
techniques, such as waterboarding, came from the military during the George W.
Bush administration. Trump has said he backs such measures and admitted in an
interview on Tuesday with the New York Times that he was taken aback when Mattis
disagreed with him.

Trump's campaign trail talk of temporarily banning Muslims or forcing them to
register with the U.S. government is certain to draw resistance from most senior
military officers, including those who have cycled through interviews with Trump
in recent days. Although retired Army Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, Trump's pick for
national security adviser, has described Islam as a threat to the United States,
his views have alienated him from most generals and many of his former military
mentors.

"I don't think a single one of the generals, with the exception of Flynn, will
buy into Trump's view of the Islamic world," Barno said. "All of them will
reject the notion that Islam is the problem or that Muslims are the problem."

Trump's vision of ruthless battlefield commanders pursuing an implacable foe
misses a lot about the modern general. The Iraq and Afghanistan wars have
certainly involved a lot of fighting and killing, but generals have also spent
an inordinate amount of time worrying about winning over civilians, wooing
fickle tribal elders and managing sensitive allies.

They view alliances, such as NATO, as sacrosanct. Trump has said that the United
States may not defend NATO allies who do not "pay their bills."

"War involves fighting, but so much more," said retired Army Lt. Gen. James
Dubik, who oversaw the training of Iraqi forces in Baghdad from 2007 to 2008.

The biggest difference between Trump and his generals could come in the realm of
managing risk. Most generals spent decades methodically working their way
through a massive bureaucracy with its own unique set of politics, customs and
byzantine policies. They survived and in many cases thrived in a culture that
rewards conformity over the brash, go-it-alone approach that has characterized
Trump's career.

"There are a lot of bold and bright colonels who never made general," one former
military officer said.

Trump's unprecedented courtship of the brass also raises some troubling
questions for a country built around civilian control of the military. For
years, top U.S. officials have been pushing allies where the military dominates
the highest levels of government, such as Egypt, Pakistan and Turkey, to cede
more authority to civilians.

A general-heavy Trump administration could undermine that message. "This is a
way that less-democratic governments conduct themselves," said Kathleen Hicks, a
senior official in the Obama administration and the Pentagon and an adviser to
the Hillary Clinton campaign.

It also upends decades of tradition. "Civilian control is so fundamental to the
character and the way we think about the United States," said Jim Thomas, a
former top official in the George W. Bush administration. "It's something that
should be preserved at all costs."

The generals, though, may have the toughest adjustment when it comes to serving
in a Trump administration. Most are accustomed to working through big staffs and
often rigid chains of command, a stark contrast to the improvisational nature of
Trump's campaign and to how he seems to be putting together his Cabinet.

"Right now Trump is interviewing the generals, but they are also interviewing
him," Barno said. "They must be wondering, 'Am I going to have to compromise my
values and beliefs to work in this administration?' That's going to be a very
tough question they all have to ask."

greg.jaffe@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             847 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

How long will markets continue to soar under Trump?

BYLINE: Jonnelle Marte

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 728 words


The answer is likely to be in the details of his policies, analysts say

It has been more than two weeks since Donald Trump won the presidential
election, and Wall Street is still celebrating. U.S. stock markets locked in
their third straight week of gains Friday, with major indexes reaching record
highs this week.

The surging markets appear to be in reaction to the potential benefits of a
Trump presidency, such as lower corporate and income tax rates, higher
infrastructure spending and looser regulations. If such measures are enacted,
they could provide a jolt to an already-growing economy, investment analysts
say.

The Dow Jones industrial average, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the
tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index all closed on record highs Friday, along with
the Russell 2000 index, which tracks small-cap stocks.

The Dow, which rose 0.36 percent Friday to 19,152, has so far held its ground
after closing above 19,000 for the first time Tuesday. The S&P 500 closed up
0.39 percent; the Nasdaq rose 0.34 percent.

The S&P 500 and the Dow have gained a stunning 3 percent and 4.5 percent,
respectively, since Election Day.

On the campaign trail, Trump touted plans to overhaul the tax code and reduce
taxes for businesses and individuals. If enacted, substantial tax reform could
have the effect of freeing up cash for businesses and consumers.

Trump has also pushed for new infrastructure, calling for increased government
spending on projects such as building and repairing roads and bridges. A boom in
infrastructure could create more jobs and boost companies that sell construction
equipment, said Jim Holtzman, financial adviser with Legend Financial Advisors.
But Trump will still have to convince a spending-averse Republican Congress.

Railing against government red tape, the president-elect has pledged to loosen
regulations for banks, oil companies and Internet providers to save costs and
add jobs. But financial advisers say that deregulation could have mixed effects
across different industries, although investors may see the hands-off approach
as a positive for the markets.

The rally has appeared to calm the fears of some individual investors who were
initially anxious about how Trump's policies might affect their nest eggs,
financial planners say. Steven Podnos, a financial planner in  Cocoa Beach,
Fla., said one 80-year-old retiree he works with insisted on moving his entire
portfolio to cash two weeks before the election out of worry that the markets
would collapse if Trump won.

"What I told him, and I told all the other clients, is that I had no idea what
the markets would do in response to the election," Podnos said. "And I told them
it shouldn't matter to them," since many of the dramatic market reactions seen
after major events are short-lived. Two days after the election, the retiree
called back, asking to have his savings reinvested in the market.

Financial advisers say they are also fielding calls from investors asking
whether they should make adjustments to their accounts to be better positioned
for the volatility that may come next. While stocks are rallying, bonds have
sold off, pushing interest rates higher for mortgages and other loans. Investors
may be selling bonds out of fear that Trump's policies could lead to higher
government spending - and higher inflation, investment analysts say. The Federal
Reserve is widely expected to raise short-term bond rates next month, a move
that could also push up rates on longer-term bonds.

Jude Boudreaux, a financial planner in New Orleans, says that he hears from
clients who don't trust the market gains and want to know whether they should be
more conservative with their savings. Others call to ask whether they should be
buying more stock. "Every conversation we've had since the election has been
about the election, or it's at least come up," he said.

But Boudreaux and other financial planners say it will be difficult to identify
which sectors and companies may turn out to be winners and losers under Trump
without more information about his policies. Trump's proposals lack detail, and
he has already reversed course on certain policy stands since he won the
election.

"Now that Trump is in, he's backing off some of the things he was talking about
before the election," Holtzman says. "So, good luck planning [based on] that."

jonnelle.marte@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             848 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

A pizzeria in crazyland

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 497 words


SOME OF the people can be fooled all of the time, and some seem plenty pleased
about it when it gives them license to exercise their most malicious impulses.
How else to explain the noxious torrent of vitriol, venom and threats trained
recently against a popular   upper Northwest   Washington   pizzeria, which has
been the subject of ludicrous conspiracy theories alleging   that   it is the
center of a child  -  abuse racket run by Hillary Clinton and her campaign
chairman, John Podesta?

The allegations against Comet Ping Pong, reported by the New York Times, are
absurd on their face and detached from any gossamer thread of fact. They took
root in the dark crevices of the Web and took flight thanks to social media
platforms, whose witless "who, us?" posture in the face of misinformation and
outright lunacy is a civic embarrassment.

More than that, the use of social media as a platform for outright lies about
public figures and, in this case, malevolent rumors about a pleasant
neighborhood restaurant popular with families is a menace to private lives,
peace and prosperity. In response to the firestorm of anonymous death threats
and warnings directed at Comet's owner, James Alefantis, and some of his
employees, D.C. police have had to deploy officers to keep an eye on the
restaurant.

Fake and unfounded "news" articles suggesting that Comet's backrooms, heretofore
known for a couple of ping-pong tables and a play area for kids, were the scene
of trafficked and molested children have appeared on Facebook, as well as on
websites serving as platforms for scurrilous disinformation and fantasy
conspiracies.

So what if Mr. Alefantis has never met Ms. Clinton and neither traffics nor
abuses children? Social media, a neutral host body for parasitical insanity,
have turned their algorithmic gaze upon him. The culprits include Facebook,
Twitter, YouTube, Reddit and other platforms that have done too little to
safeguard their sites from deception and fraud. (Reddit belatedly shut down a
message board devoted to "pizzagate.")

Like 93 percent of Washingtonians, the restaurateur happened to support Ms.
Clinton for president; he has some prominent Democratic friends, past and
present. Mr. Alefantis's name surfaced in leaked email from Mr. Podesta's
account, published by WikiLeaks, in which the two men discussed holding a
Clinton fundraiser. As far as anyone knows, there is no more logic than that as
to why Mr. Alefantis and his restaurant became targets.

The First Amendment is a bulwark of democracy but provides no protection for
defamatory allegations published in knowing disregard for the truth. Mr.
Alefantis is more than entitled to sue for defamation and libel, if he can find
the purveyors of the garbage heaved his way.

A separate question is whether criminal charges may arise from some of the
threats that have been leveled at the restaurant and its owner, online and by
phone. Mischief may stray into the province of criminality if it incites
violence.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             849 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Mar-a-Lago teems with security, traffic, tourists

BYLINE: Lori Rozsa

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1062 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH, FLA.


Trump's election changing the way of life around his Fla. resort

PALM BEACH, Fla. - On a postcard-perfect day here, tourist Kinsey Hoffman saw
many things she had never seen before: mansions with 12-foot-high gold-painted
eagle statues decorating the driveway; million-dollar mega-yachts lined up 10
abreast, bobbing in the Intracoastal Waterway; chic boutiques on Worth Avenue,
where a dog collar costs $475.

But as impressive as all that was, Hoffman was dazzled by what she saw crossing
the bridge to get to the island.

"Seeing boats with Secret Service people and machine guns, that's kind of not
what you expect when you're going to the beach. That's really something," said
Hoffman, 22, of Louisville. "We don't see things like that back home."

Hoffman was vacationing with her family in Palm Beach for the Thanksgiving
weekend, the same time President-elect Donald Trump came to Mar-a-Lago, his
Florida home, for the holiday.

The difference between a visit by candidate Trump and President-elect Trump was
evident from a mile away.

When he was just a candidate, the police presence around the estate was minimal.
A local police officer was stationed at the front Moorish-style gate and another
one at the back entrance.

This weekend, the security was far more intense. Secret Service agents on two
small boats patrolled the Intracoastal behind Mar-a-Lago. They also set up a
small temporary communications tower, about the size of a lifeguard station, on
a dirt lot to the east of the estate. A half-dozen police cars were spaced along
Ocean Boulevard, the narrow two-lane road that winds past the front entrance and
follows the property as it curves around the southern tip of Palm Beach.
Officers flagged down any trucks that approached, sending them in a direction
away from the compound.

Trump's first visit to his lavish Mar-a-Lago estate since winning the
presidential election signaled a change in the way life in Palm Beach will be
when the sprawling compound becomes the winter White House in two months. The
biggest change appears to be traffic.

"Traffic was a lot worse. It took us longer to get to the beach," said
21-year-old Cooper Podosnik, a nurse who lives in West Palm Beach. He was lying
in the sun on Midtown Beach, about a mile away from Mar-a-Lago. "So I don't like
that part of it. But it's still kind of cool to think that the next president of
the United States is right down the road from us now."

Like a lot of other aspects of Trump's relationship to this wealthy town,
traffic woes will have to be handled the same way Palm Beachers have handled
Trump in the past: They'll just have to deal with it.

"I suppose we'll all adapt," resident and business owner Catherine Louis said.
"There's not much else we can do at this point. But this time it feels a little
different. When George W. Bush was elected, people in town were celebrating.
When President Obama was first elected, a gloomy pall settled over Palm Beach.
This time, nobody wants to outright celebrate, but I'm sure half the island is
thrilled."

Louis and her husband own Bibi's Boutique, a shop for pet accessories on Worth
Avenue. She still carries two popular stuffed toys left over from the campaign -
one a figure of Trump, the other of Hillary Clinton.

"People would come in and buy one of each," Louis said. "I always wondered if
one was meant to be a keepsake and the other one a chew toy."

Old-money Palm Beach may have never truly embraced Trump, but he never let their
disapproval slow him down. Trump has expected the town to deal with him, on his
terms, since he bought Mar-a-Lago in 1985. Trump's brash style, coupled with his
ostentatious taste, rubbed the old-money social set in Palm Beach the wrong way
from the start. His flurry of lawsuits, on issues from the local airport to the
size of his flagpole, have alienated even those who gave the billionaire
developer the benefit of the doubt at first.

Trump succeeded in turning the aging 1927 compound, built by cereal heiress
Marjorie Merriweather Post, into a private club and resort, overcoming town
ordinances and social pressure. He spruced up the property inside and out,
transforming Mar-a-Lago from a hulking historic artifact into a fashionable
resort that caters to the ultra-wealthy (memberships at Mar-a-Lago cost
$100,000, plus fees of $13,000 a year).

After much resistance, the town of Palm Beach has learned to love Mar-a-Lago, if
not necessarily the man who owns it. The resort is the go-to spot for a slate of
prestigious charity balls every year, rivaling the old-guard Breakers Resort and
Flagler Museum as a high-end hot spot to hold a ball. Celebrities including
Elton John, James Taylor and Tony Bennett have appeared there. Rock star Rod
Stewart, Trump's Palm Beach neighbor, has also been a guest.

Trump brought glitz and glamour to the staid island that had been more
accustomed to a low-key patrician kind of wealth.

President John F. Kennedy and his extended family spent winters at the Kennedy
estate on the northern end of the island. The Kennedys attended services at St.
Edward's Catholic Church when they were in town and frequently ate lunch across
the street at Green's Pharmacy.

Trump is not seen much around the island, residents say.

"He has everything he needs right there at Mar-a-Lago," one Palm Beach resident
said. "He doesn't need to come into town."

Robin Bernstein, a founding member of Mar-a-Lago and now a Trump elector for
Florida, said members see him all the time and they're happy he came back for
Thanksgiving.

"If there is a love-hate relationship with Donald Trump, I'm in the love
category," Bernstein said.

Bernstein, who worked in the Commerce Department under President Jimmy Carter,
has known Trump for nearly 30 years. She credits him with allowing a diverse
membership to Mar-a-Lago without putting up some of the subtle racial and
religious barriers other clubs on the island were accused of doing.

Trump may not make it out into public when he's in Palm Beach, but he is a
frequent presence at his club.

"He was always here, talking with us, eating dinner here; he lives here," said
Bernstein, who saw Trump at Mar-a-Lago on Wednesday night. "We're so glad they
came down for Thanksgiving. He was happy, relaxed, taking pictures with people.
We missed him during the 18 months of the campaign. We're glad to have our
Donald back on Palm Beach."

national@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             850 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Wis. recount to take place after Stein files petition

BYLINE: Karoun Demirjian

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 388 words


An election recount will take place soon in Wisconsin, after former Green Party
presidential candidate Jill Stein filed a petition Friday with the state's
Elections Commission, the first of three states where she has promised to
contest the election result.

The move from Stein, who raised millions since her Wednesday announcement that
she would seek recounts of Donald Trump's apparent election victories in
Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan, came 90 minutes before Wisconsin's 5 p.m.
Friday deadline to file a petition. Now it will keep some hope alive for many
Hillary Clinton supporters for another few weeks while Wisconsin recounts
ballots before a Dec. 13 deadline.

Trump scored victories in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, and seems on the path to
declare a victory in Michigan, as well, although the result of the election in
that state will not be certified officially until Monday. Had Clinton won those
three states, previously seen as part of the Democrats' "firewall," she would
have secured enough votes in the electoral college to win the election.

Stein announced her intention to file the petition after reports that a group of
data experts and election lawyers were urging Clinton to demand a recount in
those three states, on suspicion that a cyberattack could have manipulated the
results of the election in those states. While the group had no specific proof
of hacking, members noted anomalies suggesting that Clinton routinely performed
more poorly in Wisconsin counties that used voting machines, as opposed to those
that relied on paper ballots.

Trump secured a total of 1,404,000 votes in Wisconsin, according to the
commission; Clinton had 1,381,823. Stein secured 31,006 votes.

In the end, Stein was not the only presidential candidate to demand a recount.
Roque "Rocky" De La Fuente, the Reform Party nominee who got 1,514 Wisconsin
votes, also filed a recount petition, according to the state's Elections
Commission.

To be on the safe side, the group of experts urged a recount - but it was
Stein's campaign that ended up demanding one, soliciting at first $2.5 million
and later up to $7 million to fund the recounts. As of Friday evening, Stein's
campaign reported taking in over $5.25 million in recount-related donations -
the most by a third-party candidate in history.

karoun.demirjian@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             851 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Court vacancy gets legal eagles talking

BYLINE: Robert Barnes

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 1118 words


There were plenty of people at the recent Federalist Society's national lawyers
convention who didn't support Donald Trump. But there were hardly any who voted
for Hillary Clinton.

So it was not surprising that the conservative legal activists who had gathered
for their annual meeting had not looked to the future for inspiration but the
past. Their theme was the legacy of Justice Antonin Scalia.

Still, any anxiety about Trump gave way to the realization that the electoral
surprise meant they would have a role in choosing Scalia's successor, and the
mood brightened.

"We could have been here in mourning, in sackcloths and ashes, wondering what
might become of the republic," Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) told a packed ballroom.
Instead, the attendees found themselves with a "historic opportunity" and, as he
noted, circulated through the Mayflower Hotel with "résumés in your pockets."

"This gathering may well be the single largest collection of individuals who are
likely to serve in the new administration," continued Cruz, a Federalist Society
favorite. "If you look down the aisle at your friends and neighbors and
colleagues, I have great confidence that we are collectively looking at scores
of federal judges," as well as Justice Department lawyers and future officials
of every federal agency.

But it was the opening on the Supreme Court that dominated the event.

One attendee told Cruz he was disappointed that the presidential run had not
ended in success but wondered now if Cruz would be interested in the ninth seat.

Self-deprecation is not the 45-year-old senator's forte.

"Thank you for that kind encouragement," Cruz said solemnly. "What I will say is
that history is long and can take unexpected paths."

But Cruz is not on the list of 21 people from which Trump has said - repeatedly
- he will make his choice. "Only from that list I'm going to pick, only," Trump
said recently. "We're not going outside that list."

Since the list was developed in large part with the assistance of the Federalist
Society and the conservative think tank Heritage Foundation, most in the
conservative legal movement are happy with the potential choices. (Heritage
official John G. Malcolm has lamented the omission of former Bush administration
solicitor general Paul Clement and Judge Brett Kavanaugh from the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.)

In fact, no one from Washington is on the list, save for Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah),
and his rocky past with Trump - including voting for independent presidential
candidate Evan McMullin instead of the GOP nominee - makes Lee's candidacy
unlikely.

Instead, the list is composed of federal judges and state supreme court justices
from around the country. A solid number of them clerked for Scalia or another of
the Supreme Court's current conservatives, raising the possibility that a former
clerk would for the first time sit with the justice for whom he or she once
worked.

Who is on the shortlist? Who knows. But two names must be elevated, if for no
other reason than Trump himself has mentioned them.

"We could have a Diane Sykes, or you could have a Bill Pryor; we have some
fantastic people," Trump said shortly after Scalia died, naming the kinds of
judges a Republican president could nominate.

The selection of Judge William Pryor of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit in Atlanta would be a sign that Trump does not fear a disruptive and
contentious battle. Few people raise liberal hackles like the 54-year-old Pryor,
who was a recess appointment of President George W. Bush.

Pryor, a former Alabama attorney general, has been an outspoken critic of gay
rights and  Roe v. Wade . He called the 1973 abortion rights decision the day
"seven members of our highest court ripped the Constitution and ripped out the
life of millions of unborn children." At his Senate confirmation hearing, his
refusal to back away from such remarks made him a hero to the right.

Pryor has a powerful advocate in his mentor, Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), an
early supporter of Trump and the president-elect's choice to be attorney
general. But Republicans might be looking for someone other than a white
Catholic man.

Including Scalia, Republican presidents are responsible for six consecutive men
joining the court, all of them Catholic except for Justice David Souter, and all
of them white, except for Justice Clarence Thomas.

Sykes is a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit and a former
justice on the Wisconsin Supreme Court. She, too, is a Federalist Society
favorite, chosen a couple of years ago to interview Thomas at the group's gala
dinner.

Sykes would bring something to the court missing since the departure of Justice
Sandra Day O'Connor: She has run for elected office. And she has a solidly
conservative voting record, with a requisite defense of gun rights.

One drawback is that she would be 59 at the time of her nomination, and
conservatives generally like their nominees to be younger. On the other hand,
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg was 60 when confirmed, and she has served 23 years
and counting.

Another woman who had a prominent role at the recent Federalist Society
convention was Michigan Supreme Court Justice Joan Larsen. A former Scalia clerk
- "When I write, I still think of him," she said at a panel on Scalia's writing
ability - Larsen would be a fresh face. Perhaps too fresh for some. She was
appointed to that court only last year, and there are concerns that too little
is known about her jurisprudence.

Conservatives live in fear of a nominee who does not turn out to be a strict
conservative, such as the more moderate O'Connor and Justice Anthony M. Kennedy,
or even liberal like Souter. "Please God, no more Souters" is a Pryor refrain
that conservatives love.

Josh Blackman, a law professor at the South Texas College of Law Houston,
interviewed convention attendees and opened up his FantasySCOTUS site to gauge
interest in Trump's choice.

Two other federal judges - Neil Gorsuch of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
10th Circuit in Denver and Raymond Kethledge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the 6th Circuit - are among the leaders. Both are former Kennedy clerks.

And Justice Don Willett of the Texas Supreme Court is also a favorite of the
voters. Willett displays a libertarian streak in his rulings but is known mostly
for his postings on Twitter, where he has more than 66,000 followers.

He tweets about the Constitution, the law, Chick-fil-A, Whataburger and his
three children, known as the Wee Willetts.

He professed surprise to find himself on Trump's list. Perhaps because of this
haiku tweet:

Who would the Donald

Name to #SCOTUS? The mind reels

*weeps - can't finish tweet*

robert.barnes@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             852 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

How long will markets continue to soar under Trump?

BYLINE: Jonnelle Marte

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 863 words


The answer is likely to be in the details of his policies, analysts say

It has been more than two weeks since Donald Trump won the presidential
election, and Wall Street is still celebrating. U.S. stock markets locked in
their third straight week of gains Friday, with major indexes reaching record
highs this week.

The surging markets appear to be in reaction to the potential benefits of a
Trump presidency, such as lower corporate and income tax rates, higher
infrastructure spending and looser regulations. If such measures are enacted,
they could provide a jolt to an already-growing economy, investment analysts
say.

The Dow Jones industrial average, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the
tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index all closed on record highs Friday, along with
the Russell 2000 index, which tracks small-cap stocks.

The Dow, which rose 0.36 percent Friday to 19,152, has so far held its ground
after closing above 19,000 for the first time Tuesday. The S&P 500 closed up
0.39 percent; the Nasdaq rose 0.34 percent.

The S&P 500 and the Dow have gained a stunning 3 percent and 4.5 percent,
respectively, since Election Day.

On the campaign trail, Trump touted plans to overhaul the tax code and reduce
taxes for businesses and individuals. If enacted, substantial tax reform could
have the effect of freeing up cash for businesses and consumers.

Trump has also pushed for new infrastructure, calling for increased government
spending on projects such as building and repairing roads and bridges. A boom in
infrastructure could create more jobs and boost companies that sell construction
equipment, said Jim Holtzman, financial adviser with Legend Financial Advisors.
But Trump will still have to convince a spending-averse Republican Congress.

Railing against government red tape, the president-elect has pledged to loosen
regulations for banks, oil companies and Internet providers to save costs and
add jobs. But financial advisers say that deregulation could have mixed effects
across different industries, although investors may see the hands-off approach
as a positive for the markets.

The rally has appeared to calm the fears of some individual investors who were
initially anxious about how Trump's policies might affect their nest eggs,
financial planners say. Steven Podnos, a financial planner in Coco Beach, Fla.,
said one 80-year-old retiree he works with insisted on moving his entire
portfolio to cash two weeks before the election out of worry that the markets
would collapse if Trump won.

"What I told him, and I told all the other clients, is that I had no idea what
the markets would do in response to the election," Podnos said. "And I told them
it shouldn't matter to them," since many of the dramatic market reactions seen
after major events are short-lived. Two days after the election, the retiree
called back, asking to have his savings reinvested in the market.

Financial advisers say they are also fielding calls from investors asking
whether they should make adjustments to their accounts to be better positioned
for the volatility that may come next. While stocks are rallying, bonds have
sold off, pushing interest rates higher for mortgages and other loans. Investors
may be selling bonds out of fear that Trump's policies could lead to higher
government spending - and higher inflation, investment analysts say. The Federal
Reserve is widely expected to raise short-term bond rates next month, a move
that could also push up rates on longer-term bonds.

Jude Boudreaux, a financial planner in New Orleans, says that he hears from
clients who don't trust the market gains and want to know whether they should be
more conservative with their savings. Others call to ask whether they should be
buying more stock. "Every conversation we've had since the election has been
about the election, or it's at least come up," he said.

But Boudreaux and other financial planners say it will be difficult to identify
which sectors and companies may turn out to be winners and losers under Trump
without more information about his policies. Trump's proposals lack detail, and
he has already reversed course on certain policy stands since he won the
election.

"Now that Trump is in, he's backing off some of the things he was talking about
before the election," Holtzman says. "So, good luck planning [based on] that."

For the time being, many advisers are largely telling investors to stick with
the plan. It's not clear how long the rally will last and whether the higher
interest rates since the election will stick.

Those who are concerned that the market surge will lose steam can use the recent
highs to rebalance their portfolios, Boudreaux says. Take someone who normally
invests 60 percent of hi portfolio in stocks but now has about 65 percent of his
savings in stocks after the gains: That investor can sell some stocks to bring
the allocation back down to 60 percent, he says. The proceeds can be used to buy
bonds or other investments that may have gone down in value.

"We're not speculating," Boudreaux says. "It's just if you're uncomfortable and
you've had some extra gains, let's get you back to your target allocation."

jonnelle.marte@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             853 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

How Republicans and Democrats can come together to fix Obamacare

BYLINE: Steven Pearlstein

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G01

LENGTH: 1287 words


Since the election, I, among others, have pointed out that Donald Trump would
not be able to keep his promise of repealing the rest of Obamacare while
protecting people with "preexisting conditions." To do so would still require
everyone to buy insurance - the controversial "individual mandate" - while still
requiring insurers to offer policies to anyone who wants to buy one at the
standard "community" rate.

It would be wrong, however, for Democrats to jump from that observation to the
conclusion that there aren't other ways to structure a health insurance market
to achieve near-universal coverage at affordable prices. Republicans have
proposed a number of credible ideas that could preserve most of the gains from
the Affordable Care Act while restructuring the system to better conform to
conservative, market-oriented principles. A few would even make the system more
efficient and more progressive.

Broadly speaking, these Republican plans would induce more of the young and
healthy into the market with lower premiums, even as premiums rise for those who
are older and sicker. Most plans would abolish many of the health law's taxes
and reduce federal regulation of insurance markets while preserving some but not
all of the premium subsidies for the poor and working class.

The most interesting and radical of the Republican ideas is to eliminate the
tax-free treatment of employer-paid health insurance and use the $260 billion in
increased revenue to give tax credits for every American to offset the cost of
buying health insurance. This idea was proposed by Republican candidate John
McCain in the 2008 presidential campaign and has now been picked up in one
proposal by Republican Sens. Richard Burr (N.C.) and Orrin G. Hatch (Utah) and
Rep. Fred Upton (Mich.), and in another by Avik Roy, head of a new conservative
think tank.

The current exclusion is the largest and one of the most regressive tax breaks
in the current income tax code. The biggest benefits go to people who have the
highest incomes and have the most expensive health insurance policies, while
people who are unemployed or work for employers who don't offer health insurance
don't get any tax benefit. The only justification for such a regressive and
inefficient tax is a political one: Eliminating it would trigger fierce
political opposition from big business and big labor.

In these proposals, the tax credit would be adjusted by age and income and be
sufficient to allow those with median incomes or lower to buy "catastrophic"
insurance that would cover major medical incidents. Individuals and their
employers would be free to supplement the catastrophic policy and buy another
layer of more comprehensive coverage but only with after-tax dollars. Or they
could put additional money in a tax-free health savings account to pay for
routine medical care not covered by insurance. The government could deposit
additional money in the health saving accounts of lower-income households.

By tying the level of the tax credit to the cost of catastrophic insurance, a
well-designed Republican "replacement" could make it possible for all Americans
to afford less-expensive basic coverage without resorting to a mandate. Surely
this is a framework with which Democrats should be able to work as an
alternative to the Affordable Care Act, which relies instead on an individual
mandate, premium subsidies for the poor and working class and a "Cadillac tax"
on gold-plated insurance policies. Like Obamacare, it would require insurers to
sell policies to everyone at the standard rate, albeit with greater variation
based on age. Unlike Obamacare, the structure of the tax benefits would be
progressive rather than regressive.

Democrats at this point will surely complain that catastrophic insurance is
unacceptable because it leaves households responsible for paying thousands of
dollars for routine medical bills until insurance kicks in. After all, a lot of
people resent large co-payments and deductibles, even if they lower premiums.
And there is evidence that if low-income households are required to pay anything
out of pocket, they will not get necessary preventive or routine medical care,
putting them at risk for getting seriously sick later on.

But there is equally compelling evidence that when people have health insurance
that covers any and all medical expenses, they act like hungry football players
at an all-you-can-eat buffet, consuming much more health care than they need,
irrespective of cost, driving up health insurance premiums for themselves and
everyone else. When people pay for routine health care the way they pay for
other necessities, they are more likely to buy only what they need and shop
around for the best value.

Both sides in this debate overstate their case.

Democrats have a bad habit of assuming that people - particularly poor people -
aren't smart enough to figure out how to best spend their health-care dollars
without guidance from the nanny state.

At the same time, the Republican case for "consumer-driven" health care
overstates the degree to which most of us are willing or able to shop for value.
When it comes to medical care, our instinct is to think that low price means low
quality. (Would you go to surgeon who advertises, "Special This Week Only! Hip
Replacements: Two for the Price of One!) And how are we supposed to shop for
value when lying half-conscious in the back of an ambulance?

Given the political realities, Democrats should be willing to accept a system
built around high-deductible insurance as long as such policies also cover
proven preventive care and treatment of chronic conditions.

In exchange for expanding the role of tax-free health savings accounts,
Democrats could insist that the accounts of low-income families receive
government subsidies to cover a significant share of their out-of-pocket medical
expenses.

In exchange for going along with the Republican push for "consumer-driven"
health care, Democrats could insist that consumers have the tools they need to
make good decisions. Doctors, hospitals and drug companies could be required to
provide clear, simple information on prices and quality. Providers could be
prohibited from charging more for individuals paying their own bills than they
charge the largest insurance company. And to ensure a genuinely competitive
market, rather than the fake one we have now, Democrats could demand stepped-up
antitrust enforcement against hospitals, insurers and drug companies, while
taking away from medical associations the power to limit the supply of
physicians and prevent nurses from performing routine tasks

In exchange for hard caps on insurance industry profits and administrative
costs, insurers could be required to disclose how much of every premium dollar
goes to pay for medical services.

And in exchange for less federal control, state regulators could be given the
option to maintain as much of the Affordable Care Act architecture as they
chose.

Inevitably, some laudable features of Obamacare will be lost in a bipartisan
compromise. Elections matter. But it's worth remembering that President-elect
Donald Trump and his Republican allies will be as desperate to show they can
make good on their promise to painlessly repeal and replace Obamacare as
Democrats are desperate to preserve it as is.

Democrats can leverage that reality to their advantage. Rather than simply
demonizing all Republican ideas and rejecting them out of hand, Democrats might
do well to acknowledge the changed political environment and negotiate a better
alternative to the Affordable Care Act than the one the Republican Congress will
deliver if forced to rely on the votes of their most conservative members.

pearlstein@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             854 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

A pizzeria in crazyland

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 497 words


SOME OF the people can be fooled all of the time, and some seem plenty pleased
about it when it gives them license to exercise their most malicious impulses.
How else to explain the noxious torrent of vitriol, venom and threats trained
recently against a popular   upper Northwest   Washington   pizzeria, which has
been the subject of ludicrous conspiracy theories alleging   that   it is the
center of a child  -  abuse racket run by Hillary Clinton and her campaign
chairman, John Podesta?

The allegations against Comet Ping Pong, reported by the New York Times, are
absurd on their face and detached from any gossamer thread of fact. They took
root in the dark crevices of the Web and took flight thanks to social media
platforms, whose witless "who, us?" posture in the face of misinformation and
outright lunacy is a civic embarrassment.

More than that, the use of social media as a platform for outright lies about
public figures and, in this case, malevolent rumors about a pleasant
neighborhood restaurant popular with families is a menace to private lives,
peace and prosperity. In response to the firestorm of anonymous death threats
and warnings directed at Comet's owner, James Alefantis, and some of his
employees, D.C. police have had to deploy officers to keep an eye on the
restaurant.

Fake and unfounded "news" articles suggesting that Comet's backrooms, heretofore
known for a couple of ping-pong tables and a play area for kids, were the scene
of trafficked and molested children have appeared on Facebook, as well as on
websites serving as platforms for scurrilous disinformation and fantasy
conspiracies.

So what if Mr. Alefantis has never met Ms. Clinton and neither traffics nor
abuses children? Social media, a neutral host body for parasitical insanity,
have turned their algorithmic gaze upon him. The culprits include Facebook,
Twitter, YouTube, Reddit and other platforms that have done too little to
safeguard their sites from deception and fraud. (Reddit belatedly shut down a
message board devoted to "pizzagate.")

Like 93 percent of Washingtonians, the restaurateur happened to support Ms.
Clinton for president; he has some prominent Democratic friends, past and
present. Mr. Alefantis's name surfaced in leaked email from Mr. Podesta's
account, published by WikiLeaks, in which the two men discussed holding a
Clinton fundraiser. As far as anyone knows, there is no more logic than that as
to why Mr. Alefantis and his restaurant became targets.

The First Amendment is a bulwark of democracy but provides no protection for
defamatory allegations published in knowing disregard for the truth. Mr.
Alefantis is more than entitled to sue for defamation and libel, if he can find
the purveyors of the garbage heaved his way.

A separate question is whether criminal charges may arise from some of the
threats that have been leveled at the restaurant and its owner, online and by
phone. Mischief may stray into the province of criminality if it incites
violence.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             855 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Mar-a-Lago teems with security, traffic, tourists

BYLINE: Lori Rozsa

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1062 words

DATELINE: PALM BEACH, FLA.


Trump's election changing the way of life around his Fla. resort

PALM BEACH, Fla. - On a postcard-perfect day here, tourist Kinsey Hoffman saw
many things she had never seen before: mansions with 12-foot-high gold-painted
eagle statues decorating the driveway; million-dollar mega-yachts lined up 10
abreast, bobbing in the Intracoastal Waterway; chic boutiques on Worth Avenue,
where a dog collar costs $475.

But as impressive as all that was, Hoffman was dazzled by what she saw crossing
the bridge to get to the island.

"Seeing boats with Secret Service people and machine guns, that's kind of not
what you expect when you're going to the beach. That's really something," said
Hoffman, 22, of Louisville. "We don't see things like that back home."

Hoffman was vacationing with her family in Palm Beach for the Thanksgiving
weekend, the same time President-elect Donald Trump came to Mar-a-Lago, his
Florida home, for the holiday.

The difference between a visit by candidate Trump and President-elect Trump was
evident from a mile away.

When he was just a candidate, the police presence around the estate was minimal.
A local police officer was stationed at the front Moorish-style gate and another
one at the back entrance.

This weekend, the security was far more intense. Secret Service agents on two
small boats patrolled the Intracoastal behind Mar-a-Lago. They also set up a
small temporary communications tower, about the size of a lifeguard station, on
a dirt lot to the east of the estate. A half-dozen police cars were spaced along
Ocean Boulevard, the narrow two-lane road that winds past the front entrance and
follows the property as it curves around the southern tip of Palm Beach.
Officers flagged down any trucks that approached, sending them in a direction
away from the compound.

Trump's first visit to his lavish Mar-a-Lago estate since winning the
presidential election signaled a change in the way life in Palm Beach will be
when the sprawling compound becomes the winter White House in two months. The
biggest change appears to be traffic.

"Traffic was a lot worse. It took us longer to get to the beach," said
21-year-old Cooper Podosnik, a nurse who lives in West Palm Beach. He was lying
in the sun on Midtown Beach, about a mile away from Mar-a-Lago. "So I don't like
that part of it. But it's still kind of cool to think that the next president of
the United States is right down the road from us now."

Like a lot of other aspects of Trump's relationship to this wealthy town,
traffic woes will have to be handled the same way Palm Beachers have handled
Trump in the past: They'll just have to deal with it.

"I suppose we'll all adapt," resident and business owner Catherine Louis said.
"There's not much else we can do at this point. But this time it feels a little
different. When George W. Bush was elected, people in town were celebrating.
When President Obama was first elected, a gloomy pall settled over Palm Beach.
This time, nobody wants to outright celebrate, but I'm sure half the island is
thrilled."

Louis and her husband own Bibi's Boutique, a shop for pet accessories on Worth
Avenue. She still carries two popular stuffed toys left over from the campaign -
one a figure of Trump, the other of Hillary Clinton.

"People would come in and buy one of each," Louis said. "I always wondered if
one was meant to be a keepsake and the other one a chew toy."

Old-money Palm Beach may have never truly embraced Trump, but he never let their
disapproval slow him down. Trump has expected the town to deal with him, on his
terms, since he bought Mar-a-Lago in 1985. Trump's brash style, coupled with his
ostentatious taste, rubbed the old-money social set in Palm Beach the wrong way
from the start. His flurry of lawsuits, on issues from the local airport to the
size of his flagpole, have alienated even those who gave the billionaire
developer the benefit of the doubt at first.

Trump succeeded in turning the aging 1927 compound, built by cereal heiress
Marjorie Merriweather Post, into a private club and resort, overcoming town
ordinances and social pressure. He spruced up the property inside and out,
transforming Mar-a-Lago from a hulking historic artifact into a fashionable
resort that caters to the ultra-wealthy (memberships at Mar-a-Lago cost
$100,000, plus fees of $13,000 a year).

After much resistance, the town of Palm Beach has learned to love Mar-a-Lago, if
not necessarily the man who owns it. The resort is the go-to spot for a slate of
prestigious charity balls every year, rivaling the old-guard Breakers Resort and
Flagler Museum as a high-end hot spot to hold a ball. Celebrities including
Elton John, James Taylor and Tony Bennett have appeared there. Rock star Rod
Stewart, Trump's Palm Beach neighbor, has also been a guest.

Trump brought glitz and glamour to the staid island that had been more
accustomed to a low-key patrician kind of wealth.

President John F. Kennedy and his extended family spent winters at the Kennedy
estate on the northern end of the island. The Kennedys attended services at St.
Edward's Catholic Church when they were in town and frequently ate lunch across
the street at Green's Pharmacy.

Trump is not seen much around the island, residents say.

"He has everything he needs right there at Mar-a-Lago," one Palm Beach resident
said. "He doesn't need to come into town."

Robin Bernstein, a founding member of Mar-a-Lago and now a Trump elector for
Florida, said members see him all the time and they're happy he came back for
Thanksgiving.

"If there is a love-hate relationship with Donald Trump, I'm in the love
category," Bernstein said.

Bernstein, who worked in the Commerce Department under President Jimmy Carter,
has known Trump for nearly 30 years. She credits him with allowing a diverse
membership to Mar-a-Lago without putting up some of the subtle racial and
religious barriers other clubs on the island were accused of doing.

Trump may not make it out into public when he's in Palm Beach, but he is a
frequent presence at his club.

"He was always here, talking with us, eating dinner here; he lives here," said
Bernstein, who saw Trump at Mar-a-Lago on Wednesday night. "We're so glad they
came down for Thanksgiving. He was happy, relaxed, taking pictures with people.
We missed him during the 18 months of the campaign. We're glad to have our
Donald back on Palm Beach."

national@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             856 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

What about Russia's meddling?

BYLINE: Eric Chenoweth

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 984 words


Eric Chenoweth is co-director of the Institute for Democracy in Eastern Europe.

In assessing Donald Trump's  presidential victory, Americans continue to look
away from this election's most alarming story: the successful effort by a
hostile foreign power to manipulate public opinion before the vote.

U.S. intelligence agencies determined that the Russian government actively
interfered in our elections. Russian state propaganda gave little doubt that
this was done to support Republican nominee Trump, who repeatedly praised
Vladimir Putin and excused the Russian president's foreign aggression and
domestic repression. Most significantly, U.S. intelligence agencies have
affirmed that the Russian government directed              the illegal hacking
of private email accounts of the Democratic National Committee and prominent
individuals. The emails were then released by WikiLeaks, which has benefited
financially from a Russian state propaganda arm, used Russian operatives for
security and made clear an intent to harm the candidacy of Hillary Clinton.

From the Russian perspective, the success of this operation can hardly be
overstated. News stories on the DNC emails released in July served to disrupt
the Democratic National Convention, instigate political infighting and suggest
for some supporters of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) - without any real proof -
that the Democratic primary had been "rigged" against their candidate. On Oct.
7, WikiLeaks began near daily                            dumps  from Clinton
campaign chairman John Podesta's email account, generating a month of largely
negative reporting on Clinton, her campaign staff, her husband and their
foundation. With some exceptions, there was little news in the email beyond
political gossip and things the media had covered before, now revisited from a
seemingly "hidden" viewpoint.

Russian (and former communist) propaganda has traditionally worked exactly this
way: The more you "report" something negatively, the more the negative is true.
Trump and supportive media outlets adopted the technique and reveled in
information gained from the illegal Russian hacking (as well as many "fake news"
stories that evidence              suggests were generated by Russian
intelligence operations) to make exaggerated claims ("Hillary wants to open
borders to 600 million people!") or to accuse Clinton of illegality, corruption
and, ironically, treasonous behavior.

Part of the Russian operation's success is that we cannot measure the effect.
Did the DNC emails depress the Sanders vote for Clinton? Did the Podesta emails
turn off independents? Would voters have responded differently if major media
had reported the email releases not as legitimate news but as an intelligence
operation by a hostile foreign power aimed at undermining the integrity of U.S.
elections? There are no clear answers. But there are certainties: The email
operation increased negative stories about Clinton, fueled an immense propaganda
attack and diminished coverage of actual issues. The large polling lead Clinton
gained after the debates slipped significantly under this barrage of negativity
- even before FBI Director James B. Comey's  bombshell.

Again, was there coordination with this foreign intervention? Russia's deputy
foreign minister, Sergei A. Ryabkov, boasted that government representatives
maintained multiple "contacts" during the campaign with Trump's "immediate
entourage." (Campaign spokeswoman Hope Hicks issued a denial.) This is on top of
reported U.S. government suspicions that a Trump adviser met with the
intelligence operative directing the hacking. Where are the committee chairmen
in Congress demanding an investigation? How is it that Republican Party leaders
accept the intervention of a foreign power in the election of their party's
presidential candidate?

Putin is pursuing large strategic goals: recognition of the annexation of Crimea
and international acceptance of foreign aggression to change state borders;
Russian control of all of Ukraine; weakening or even dissolution of the European
Union and NATO; restoration of Russia as a great power; and restored dominance
over the former Soviet bloc and its environs. In pursuing these aims, Putin is
engaged in a disciplined effort to influence democratic politics in the West,
including financial and propaganda support for the narrow Brexit victory and for
a network of far-right (and pro-Russian) nationalist political parties and
groups throughout Europe. Now he has achieved what had to have been his most
improbable goal: helping elect a sympathetic U.S. president who wants to form an
alliance against terrorism. What will Trump give in exchange? He has already
reaffirmed his intention to end support for pro-Western rebels in Syria, which
effectively gives Russia a free hand to make President Bashar al-Assad its
satrap. The greater danger is Trump's attitude toward NATO as a "soft" alliance
that, like the Western powers in 1939, won't "die for Danzig." It would mean the
alliance's end.

In his book "Putinism," Soviet and Russian historian Walter Laqueur describes
the varied ideological strains that animate the former KGB agent. The "Russian
national idea" that has emerged is to defend Russia, Eurasia and the world from
the anti- civilizational corruption of Western liberal democracy. Frighteningly,
Putin's worldview has resonance in the populist and nationalist fixations of
Stephen K. Bannon, the president-elect's senior counselor, whose stated mission
is to "destroy" the "establishment" and end the domination of the "donor class."
Bannon's "closing argument" ad for Trump, redolent of Russian propaganda,
described the United States as a corrupt and failing state because of nefarious
"global special interests." It all points to grave danger for democracy and a
world order that has kept the peace for 70 years. Is this what America voted
for?

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             857 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Clinton campaign joins Wis. recount

BYLINE: Matt Zapotosky

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1539 words


Possibility of 'outside interference' in election is being explored

Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign has been quietly exploring whether there
was any "outside interference" in the election results and will participate in
the election recount in Wisconsin initiated by Green Party presidential
candidate Jill Stein, a Clinton campaign lawyer said Saturday.

Clinton campaign lawyer Marc Elias said in a Medium post that the campaign has
received "hundreds of messages, emails, and calls urging us to do something,
anything, to investigate claims that the election results were hacked and
altered in a way to disadvantage Secretary Clinton," especially in Michigan,
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, where the "combined margin of victory for Donald
Trump was merely 107,000 votes."

Elias said the campaign has "not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or
outside attempts to alter the voting technology." But because of the margin of
victory - and the degree of apparent foreign interference during the campaign -
Elias said Clinton officials had "quietly taken a number of steps in the last
two weeks to rule in or out any possibility of outside interference in the vote
tally in these critical battleground states."

He said the Clinton campaign will participate in the Stein-initiated recount in
Wisconsin by having representatives on the ground monitoring the count and
having lawyers represent them in court if needed. And if Stein makes good on
efforts to prompt similar processes in Pennsylvania and Michigan, Elias said,
the Clinton campaign would do so there, as well.

"The campaign is grateful to all those who have expended time and effort to
investigate various claims of abnormalities and irregularities," Elias said.
"While that effort has not, in our view, resulted in evidence of manipulation of
results, now that a recount is underway, we believe we have an obligation to the
more than 64 million Americans who cast ballots for Hillary Clinton to
participate in ongoing proceedings to ensure that an accurate vote count will be
reported."

The recount effort is somewhat unusual in that it comes weeks after Clinton
conceded - and at the request and with the financial backing of a third-party
candidate, Stein, who has no chance of winning, said election-law expert Richard
L. Hasen, a law professor at the University of California at Irvine. Clinton,
too, has virtually no chance of altering the result, given that she would have
to reverse not just Wisconsin but also Michigan and Pennsylvania to become
president, Hasen said.

In a statement Saturday, Trump said the recount was "just a way for Jill Stein,
who received less than one percent of the vote overall and wasn't even on the
ballot in many states, to fill her coffers with money."

"The people have spoken and the election is over," Trump said, "and as Hillary
Clinton herself said on election night, in addition to her conceding by
congratulating me, 'We must accept this result and then look to the future.'"

Later, Trump tweeted that the Green Party's initiative, which he called a
"scam," was "now being joined by the badly defeated & demoralized Dems."

For her part, Stein took to Twitter to question Clinton's motives for
participating in the recount effort.

"Why would Hillary Clinton - who conceded the election to Donald Trump - want
#Recount2016?" Stein wrote. "You cannot be on-again, off-again about democracy."

Recounts can change outcomes. Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) famously defeated Norm
Coleman for the seat he now holds after a months-long recount and legal battle,
even though Coleman seemed initially to have a lead. But the margins are usually
in the hundreds, not thousands, and typically recounts are initiated by
candidates in close races refusing to accept defeat, as is the case in the North
Carolina gubernatorial race between incumbent Pat McCrory (R) and Democrat Roy
Cooper, Hasen said.

"I don't think there's any realistic chance whatsoever that even if recounts are
done in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, that's going to change the outcome
in the states, or in the presidential election generally," Hasen said.

Trump won 1,404,000 votes in Wisconsin, according to the state's election
commission, while Clinton had 1,381,823. The Wisconsin recount will be conducted
by county boards of canvassers, who must move quickly to meet a mid-December
deadline to ensure the state's electoral votes are counted. Stein has to file by
Monday to prompt a recount in Pennsylvania, and by Wednesday to trigger a
recount in Michigan. The results in that state are not technically certified
until Monday.

The presidential campaign was marked by fears that Russian hacking might affect
the outcome, especially after the hackers penetrated the computer network of the
Democratic National Committee and were found to have attempted intrusions on
voter registration databases. The Washington Post also recently reported, citing
researchers who tracked the phenomenon, that Russians created and spread fake
news about the election with the apparent goal of helping Trump.

During the campaign, Clinton criticized Trump for refusing to say that he would
accept the election results if she won. Asked during an October debate whether
he would do so, Trump responded that he would "keep you in suspense." Clinton
called that answer "horrifying" and said Trump was "talking down our democracy."

In recent days, though, it is Clinton's supporters who have raised questions
about the outcome of the election. A viral post spread by some Clinton backers,
including actress Debra Messing, suggested - falsely - that the Justice
Department was "tallying calls" from people who wanted an audit of the 2016
election and urged people to make their displeasure known.

"Even if it's busy, keep calling," one version said. "We should not back down
from this."

New York magazine reported that Clinton was being urged "by a group of prominent
computer scientists and election lawyers" to call for a recount in Wisconsin,
Michigan and Pennsylvania, and the group had evidence of possibly unusual
activity. That fueled more skepticism and calls for action by Clinton
supporters.

The evidence of possible malfeasance, though, was limited. According to New York
magazine, the group found that Clinton "received 7 percent fewer votes in
counties that relied on electronic-voting machines compared with counties that
used optical scanners and paper ballots," and that based on that "statistical
analysis, Clinton may have been denied as many as 30,000 votes; she lost
Wisconsin by 27,000."

J. Alex Halderman, one of the academics reportedly involved, later wrote on
Medium that the deviations were "probably not" the result of a cyberattack, but
that "the only way to know whether a cyberattack changed the result is to
closely examine the available physical evidence - paper ballots and voting
equipment in critical states like Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania."

Posting a link to a New York Times story about Clinton supporters calling for a
recount, senior Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway said, "Look who 'can't accept the
election results.'"

Elias's post might prompt similar criticism. Notably, though, Clinton did not
initiate the recount herself; Stein did, after raising millions of dollars to
fund the effort and claiming this had been a "hack-riddled election." Elias said
the campaign had not planned to ask for a recount itself because it had found no
actionable evidence of hacking.

The Clinton campaign had investigated the matter extensively. Elias said the
campaign had "lawyers and data scientists and analysts combing over the results
to spot anomalies," and had also "monitored and staffed the post-election
canvasses - where voting machine tapes are compared to poll-books, provisional
ballots are resolved, and all of the math is double-checked from election
night." He said the campaign also met with outside experts and "attempted to
systematically catalogue and investigate every theory that has been presented to
us within our ability to do so."

Now that a recount effort is underway, Elias said it was "important" to
participate in the proceedings. He played down the idea that the recount would
change the outcome.

"Regardless of the potential to change the outcome in any of the states," Elias
said, "we feel it is important, on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally
represented in any court proceedings and represented on the ground in order to
monitor the recount process itself."

Brian Fallon, a spokesman for the Clinton campaign, rejected the notion that the
campaign's actions might suggest to some that it was not accepting the election
results. He also disputed that the campaign had "backed a recount."

"The post says we would not have sought the recount on our own, that we see no
evidence of tampering so far, and acknowledge the margin in Michigan, which is
the tightest of the three, exceeds the largest deficit ever overcome in a
recount," Fallon wrote to The Washington Post. "We note we are guarding our
prerogatives now that someone else has launched a recount. Not sure what you
could point to suggest there is anything here that calls the results into
question."

matt.zapotosky@washpost.com

Anne Gearan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             858 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

A Wolfe in Democrats' clothing

BYLINE: Jonathan Hunley

SECTION: EXTRAS; Pg. T01

LENGTH: 661 words


Even after party switch, ex-GOPer Mark D. Wolfe handily wins council seat

Mark D. Wolfe got the most votes Nov. 8 in a seven-way race for three spots on
the Manassas City Council, but that's perhaps not the most notable thing about
his victory.

Wolfe has logged top vote-getter status before. First elected in 2008, he
received the most votes among council candidates four years later, when he
secured a second term.

The 59-year-old won those contests, however, as a Republican. This year, he ran
as a Democrat.

"I had grown increasingly uncomfortable in what has become the Republican
Party," he said recently.

Wolfe, president of the heating and air-conditioning firm Air Distributing Co.,
known as ADCO, said that he considered himself a centrist - an "Eisenhower
Republican" - and that the GOP had become too divisive.

"That's not me," he said.

He said he didn't make the change because of President-elect Donald Trump per
se, but that Trump's ascension in the Republican ranks "was certainly a part of
it."

Wolfe also said that he's not a "party-first person" but that it would have been
hard to run as an independent.

As he saw it, the situation amounted to: "If I'm not here, I'm there."

The change frustrated many in the Manassas GOP ranks. But Republican Councilman
Ian T. Lovejoy, who also was reelected Nov. 8, said the governing body's members
will be able to work together.

Wolfe complained of bullying, name-calling and attack ads in the GOP nationally.
But Lovejoy said that he hasn't seen divisiveness locally and that he's looking
at the new composition of the council - with four Republicans and three
Democrats - as simply representing the diverse opinions of city residents.

Lovejoy said many of his party mates worked for eight years to back Wolfe and
promote him, only for Wolfe to use that name recognition to aid the opposing
side this year.

"So I think that frustrates people," he said.

Politically, though, Lovejoy said Wolfe's switch was a "brilliant move,"
considering that local elections in Manassas are now in November. The municipal
contests used to be in May, which produced a lower overall voter turnout, but
one Lovejoy said probably leaned more GOP.

This year, he said, "There was definitely a Democratic headwind."

To wit, Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton got more votes in
Manassas than did Trump, and Democrat LuAnn L. Bennett bested U.S. Rep. Barbara
Comstock (R) in the city, although Comstock ended up being reelected in the 10th
District.

Democrat Patricia E. Richie-Folks also defeated Republican Russell T. Harrison
in a special election for city treasurer, and Manassas School Board member
Pamela J. Sebesky, a Democrat, was elected to the city council with Wolfe.
Sebesky got 6,474 votes to Wolfe's 7,184. Lovejoy came in third with 5,852.

The Prince William County region as a whole also is turning more Democratic,
said Stephen Farnsworth, a political science professor at the University of Mary
Washington in Fredericksburg.

But, Farnsworth said, it is rare for a candidate to switch parties and be
successful.

In Wolfe's favor, he said, would have been the fact that local officeholders are
in their "district" all the time rather than in a faraway capital where they
serve in legislative sessions. That means constituents get to know them well.

Also, there's an adage about there not being a Democratic or Republican way to
pick up the trash - meaning local issues aren't necessarily partisan.

"A lot of what local governments do doesn't have the same ideological dimension
as a lot of the state and national issues do," Farnsworth said.

Wolfe mentioned this aspect of governing, too.

"Locally, it's about delivering services," he said.

And now that he's going to serve another four years, he said, his agenda
includes promoting a strategic planning process for the city, talking to
school-system leaders about expanding the prekindergarten program and expediting
the construction of a second fire station.

pwextra@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Prince William County

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             859 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Conflicts of interest and Mr. Trump

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 333 words


Regarding Trevor Potter's Nov. 20 Outlook essay "How the presidency could be a
sweet deal for the Trumps":

How willing are congressional Republicans to oversee President-elect Donald
Trump's potential ethics issues? The questions raised about former secretary of
state Hillary Clinton's foreign relationships as they may or may not have
benefited the Clinton Foundation are minuscule compared with what we may see
with the Trump business relationships in foreign countries. Will Rep. Jason
Chaffetz (R-Utah), the chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, go after Mr. Trump as he did Ms. Clinton?

It is time for legislation requiring the president to put all financial holdings
in a true blind trust.  Past presidents have been willing to voluntarily put
their holdings in blind trusts. Not Mr. Trump. We are clearly in a different
era, one in which presidents can't be trusted to abide by the ethical conduct
required of all other public servants. Mr. Trump should not be allowed to breach
the public trust while in office and to personally profit during his tenure.

Joyce Kelly , Ellicott City

It should come as no surprise  that President-elect Donald Trump refuses to play
by the rules. He ran his campaign as an outsider who would be politically
incorrect, refused to release his income taxes, has a foundation he uses as a
personal piggy bank, has been  sued by countless people, just agreed to pay $25
million to settle fraud cases over Trump University, may be using his elected
position to promote his personal properties (the very charge he lobbed at
Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton) and now faces
conflict-of-interest accusations by not putting his personal investments in a
blind trust or liquidating them as previous presidents have done.

Mr. Trump has to decide whether he is going to be president or a businessman. If
he does not divest himself, there is no doubt that a number of organizations
will take him to court.

Joel Lasko , Silver Spring

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             860 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Wis. recount to take place after Stein files petition

BYLINE: Karoun Demirjian

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 387 words


An election recount will take place soon in Wisconsin, after former Green Party
presidential candidate Jill Stein filed a petition Friday with the state's
Elections Commission, the first of three states where she has promised to
contest the election result.

The move from Stein, who raised millions since her Wednesday announcement that
she would seek recounts of Donald Trump's apparent election victories in
Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan, came 90 minutes before Wisconsin's 5 p.m.
Friday deadline to file a petition. Now it will keep some hope alive for many
Hillary Clinton supporters for another few weeks while Wisconsin recounts
ballots before a Dec. 13 deadline.

Trump scored victories in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, and seems on the path to
declare a victory in Michigan, as well, although the result of the election in
that state will not be certified officially until Monday. Had Clinton won those
three states, previously seen as part of the Democrats' "firewall," she would
have secured enough votes in the electoral college to win the election.

Stein announced her intention to file the petition after reports that a group of
data experts and election lawyers were urging Clinton to demand a recount in
those three states, on suspicion that a cyberattack could have manipulated the
results of the election in those states. While the group had no specific proof
of hacking, members noted anomalies suggesting that Clinton routinely performed
more poorly in Wisconsin counties that used voting machines, as opposed to those
that relied on paper ballots.

Trump secured a total of 1,404,000 votes in Wisconsin, according to the
commission; Clinton had 1,381,823. Stein secured 31,006 votes.

In the end, Stein was not the only presidential candidate to demand a recount.
Roque "Rocky" De La Fuente, the Reform Party nominee who got 1,514 Wisconsin
votes, also file a recount petition, according to the state's Elections
Commission.

To be on the safe side, the group of experts urged a recount - but it was
Stein's campaign that ended up demanding one, soliciting at first $2.5 million
and later up to $7 million to fund the recounts. As of Friday evening, Stein's
campaign reported taking in over $5.25 million in recount-related donations -
the most by a third-party candidate in history.

karoun.demirjian@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             861 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

How to restore faith in election forecasting

BYLINE: Kristen Soltis Anderson;Patrick Ruffini

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 1285 words


Political strategists                             and Patrick Ruffini on
recovering from the polling disaster

Planes rarely crash because one instrument fails or one gauge gives a bad
reading. Rather, the right combination of things fail in tandem - a mechanical
problem paired with bad weather, a backup system malfunctioning at the same time
as a pilot error -  leading to catastrophe. The disaster of the 2016 election
forecasts is not dissimilar, with a series of mistakes building upon one another
to lead prognosticators astray. Pollsters now are sifting through the wreckage
to find the black boxes and assess what went wrong in order to prevent it from
happening again.

The good news is that at the same moment polling feels a bit broken, there are
new tools available for measuring the mood of the people, the tides of public
opinion and the swings of an election. These tools - including precise
demographic models and social-media data - shouldn't replace polling. But they
could help refine our predictions and our understanding.

Despite America's surprise at Donald Trump's victory in the presidential
election, not all polls failed in 2016. The national polling average will
probably be fairly close to the final popular-vote result once all the remaining
ballots in California are counted. And polls in some states, including New
Hampshire and Virginia,  got the election almost exactly right. But polls were
off in enough other states by large enough magnitudes to mislead forecasters
about which states were in play and which way the electoral college would go.

Some analysts have suggested that "shy Trump voters " were afraid to admit their
true preference to pollsters, but it is not clear why this would cause Trump to
dramatically outperform his poll numbers in some swing states but not others,
and it doesn't explain why Republican Senate candidates often outperformed their
polls by similar margins. There is some evidence for the theory that pollsters'
turnout assumptions were off and that the electorate was simply more Republican
across the board, with turnout rising the most in heavily Republican counties
and dropping the most among a core Democratic constituency: African Americans.
Polls can also err because of late movement heading into Election Day,
especially in an election with historically high numbers of undecided and
third-party voters. A possible clue here lies in the exit polls, which showed
late-deciding voters in those decisive Rust Belt states breaking heavily for
Trump.

Nate Silver of FiveThirtyEight managed to outperform his peers by assuming that
the polls might not be as good as people thought and, as a result, believing
there were more possible paths to a Trump victory. But to always assume that the
polls might be "off" is not a very satisfying way to address the problem.

Rebuilding trust in polling is key, as polls not only help politicians win
elections but also offer a valuable way to tell those in "the Beltway bubble"
what their constituents are thinking.

In the worlds of polling and data analytics, there should be a reassessment of
how we can accurately determine who is likely to vote. Relying on vote-history
data from voter files, rather than often-erroneous self-reports of voting
history, is an essential element missing in most media polling. But leaning too
heavily on data from previous elections can lead us to miss what's different
about this one. For instance, it wasn't a given that Hillary Clinton would be
able to reenergize the Obama coalition. Meanwhile, conventional likely-voter
"screens" - the way pollsters try to filter out nonvoters and improve the
representation of actual voters in a sample - have failed in two election cycles
in a row, giving Republicans false hope in 2012 and doing the same for Democrats
in 2016.

We also may need to look beyond polls alone for answers. Just as you shouldn't
fly a plane until multiple systems are checked and rechecked, we shouldn't rely
on polls alone to tell us how we're doing. Indeed, there were signs this year
that the Democrats' electoral map was more fragile than the polls made it appear
to be.

While the polls gave conflicting signals about the state of play in the upper
Midwest - showing Iowa and Ohio leaning toward Trump, and Michigan and Wisconsin
toward Clinton - demographically, these states are not very different, each
having a comparatively high share of white voters without college degrees.
Demographic modeling by the likes of David Wasserman of the Cook Political
Report provided a more accurate view, showing the Rust Belt poised to move
solidly toward Trump. Nationally,  our own demographic model, relying on factors
such as the percentage of white voters without college degrees, outperformed
state polling averages in anticipating which states Trump had a chance of
flipping on his way to an electoral college upset.

We can learn from the digital world, too. One shortcoming of polls is that they
can be slow to reflect reactions to fast-moving events, particularly in the
final days before an election. Using real-time digital data to derive these
insights is intriguing, yet top-line figures such as numbers of searches or
mentions are rarely illuminating. In fact, our own analysis of publicly
available Google trends found that these measures tended to be negatively
correlated with candidate performance. In the 30 days before the election,
"Donald Trump" was Googled more in states that he lost than in those he won.

It's digging to understand exactly who is talking about the candidates where
things get interesting. Throughout the election, we tracked conversations among
thousands of partisans on Twitter to gauge which side seemed more interested and
enthusiastic at any given moment. The data in the last few weeks was revealing:
The volume of liberal attacks on Trump began to decline around the time of the
final debate, while conservatives continued to ratchet up the pressure on
Clinton heading into Election Day. This reflected a dynamic in which Clinton was
fending off a potentially rekindled FBI investigation, while Trump was behaving
more like a normal Republican nominee. Was flagging liberal interest in
attacking Trump a possible indicator that Democrats might not surge to the polls
the way they did in 2008 and 2012? While we should generally be skeptical of
enthusiasm metrics - from yard signs to crowd sizes - the ability to rigorously
quantify partisan energy levels in online conversations could help answer that
elusive question: Who is likely to vote?

Positive online energy, too, may have been an indicator. Media consultant Erin
Pettigrew examined Facebook interest in the candidates, finding that it beat
polling in predicting the outcome in some states, including Pennsylvania and
Michigan. Overall, this Facebook data did not outperform all the state polls,
but when combined with the polls, we found that it gave a more accurate forecast
of the electoral college than the polls on their own.

Electoral surprises around the globe - from Trump to Brexit - show that we may
be overly reliant on horse-race polling. But polls are useful for what they tell
us beyond who will win the election. Many of the attitudes Trump rallied voters
around (discontent with the status quo and mistrust of political and economic
elites )  were popular in polls, even when he wasn't. This may have been a
harbinger of his success and a clue as to where voters would eventually
gravitate. The growing availability of data, from digital and traditional
sources, and the ability to analyze it mean we now have more than just polls to
understand the electorate.

Twitter: @KSoltisAnderson                                 @PatrickRuffini

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             862 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Hopes for Clinton dashed, female backers galvanized to win seats for themselves

BYLINE: Isaac Stanley-Becker

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1418 words


On Wednesday, she woke up inconsolable. On Thursday, angry. But on the Friday
after the presidential election, as she prepared posters to join thousands in
protesting Donald Trump's victory, Mia HernÃ¡ndez came to a quiet realization:
If she found her country's direction intolerable, she would have to try to
change it.

She would change it not just by signing petitions or protesting or calling her
legislators. For the first time, she sketched out a plan to run for elected
office.

In 2020, HernÃ¡ndez intends to make a bid for a seat on the San Jose City
Council or the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors. Her focus will be
reproductive rights and community empowerment, she said.

"Everybody says organize, don't mourn, make a change," said HernÃ¡ndez, 22, a
student at the University of California at Santa Cruz. "So I said to myself,
'How am I going to be an active member in this? You know what, I need to run for
office. I need to be a part of that decision-making. I need to make sure Trump's
voice is not the only voice out there.'"

Among young, liberal women who expected to see the country elect its first
female president Nov. 8, HernÃ¡ndez is not alone; many are responding to Hillary
Clinton's defeat with a new sense of obligation to seek political power. After
years of never imagining a career in the public eye or only vaguely entertaining
the idea of working in politics, these women are determined to run for elected
office.

They don't speak for all women, many of whom voted for Trump - 42percent of
them, according to exit polls conducted by Edison Research. Notably, a majority
of white women favored the Republican. But Clinton still benefited from an
overall gender gap, and young women supported her by a margin of 32 percentage
points.

For many of those rooting for Clinton to break the glass ceiling her campaign
repeatedly invoked, her loss, painful as it was, could be an even greater
mobilizing force than a victory might have been.

"It's incredibly ironic," said Alexandra Melnick, a 22-year-old from Florida who
recently decided to run for a spot on a local school board after she obtains her
master's degree in education. "But to think this could inspire women like me to
run for office - it's the only belief one can have without losing hope."

For HernÃ¡ndez, the ascent of a man she sees as menacing to her full inclusion
in American society as a Latina - and menacing to the safety of her undocumented
friends - has changed everything.

Her focus had not been on electoral politics. She considered herself an
activist, concentrating on rent and eviction issues in her home town of San
Jose. She used to spurn city council members and state legislators, politicians
against whom she had "spent so much time fighting." But the election convinced
her that these offices wield unparalleled influence, and it made clear to her
the scope of the power she could exert and the scale of her responsibility.

Michele L. Swers, a professor of government at Georgetown University who
specializes in gender and policymaking, said this response has historical
precedent.

In the early 1990s, televised hearings brought the Senate debate over the
nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court into living rooms across the
country. The all-male Judiciary Committee's treatment of Anita Hill, who accused
Thomas of sexual harassment, helped motivate women to run for office, Swers
said. In 1992, four successfully ran for the U.S. Senate, increasing the number
of women in that body threefold. They were Patty Murray of Washington, Carol
Moseley Braun of Illinois, and Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer of California,
all Democrats. Their electoral success branded 1992 the "Year of the Woman."

"You had people who decided they didn't like what they saw," Swers said. "In
general in politics, anger is a very motivating factor."

Swers said this year's election may be another pivotal consciousness-raising
event for women "deciding the only way to change things is to get into the halls
of power."

The volume of calls and the amount of cash coming in to Emily's List, a
political action committee that seeks to elect Democratic women, testify to this
effect, said the organization's spokeswoman, Marcy Stech.

"We have heard from women across the country who are raising their hands to be
part of the solution," she said.

Motivated but directionless

Although women remain underrepresented at all levels of government, Stech said,
young women searching for role models can look to the slate of Democratic women
who found success on Election Day. She pointed in particular to Stephanie
Murphy, who unseated Rep. John L. Mica, a Florida Republican nearly twice her
age, to become the first Vietnamese American woman elected to Congress. Women
like Murphy, Stech predicted, will play a major part in the evolution of the
Democratic Party as it aims to represent the growing diversity of the electorate
while making renewed overtures to working-class voters forfeited to Trump.

"We're going to have to fire on all cylinders," Stech said.

More than 1,000 miles from Santa Cruz, where HernÃ¡ndez watched the election
returns in her dorm room, Emily Sheridan, a student at the University of
Colorado at Boulder, sat in a crowded theater and watched Trump notch a victory
in Florida. Then she saw Pennsylvania begin to take on a red tint.

It was then she decided she would stay in Boulder after graduation and run for a
position at the county level.

"I wanted desperately to be able to do something, but I couldn't. ... I felt so
powerless as something so historic for all the wrong reasons was happening,"
said Sheridan, 21, who studies evolutionary ecology and biology and serves as
president of the campus's college Democrats.

Many young people are motivated but directionless, Sheridan said. They're angry
but lack an outlet for that anger; they flocked to Bernie Sanders but disengaged
from the election after he failed to win the Democratic nomination. Sheridan
said the election's outcome could be a wake-up call.

"I'm hoping the revolution starts the day after. That's what Bernie said,"
Sheridan said. "What I'm hoping is that the biggest thing that comes out of this
is a change in the idea that it's not cool to be in politics."

It wasn't concern for her social capital that kept Lindsay Fletcher, 30, away
from politics. It was the sleepless nights staying up with her two children.
After four years in the Air Force, Fletcher now cares full time for her children
- a 6-year-old daughter and 2-year-old son - at Sheppard Air Force Base in north
Texas, where her husband is stationed.

She feels called to politics, which she sees as an extension of her
responsibilities as a parent. After the election, she started a list on her
phone of military spouses who have run for office.

"I want to show my little girl that you stand up for what you believe in," she
said. "I've never been involved in politics. My focus has been on my home. But
my kids are getting older, and I'm getting antsy. I'm ready to get out and do
something."

In a year and a half, Fletcher and her family will relocate. Once they're
settled, she plans to explore local races, perhaps starting at the city level.
Fletcher said she would like to focus on women's issues - from parental leave to
health care - as well as the treatment of veterans.

Years from now, she sees herself competing for a seat in the U.S. Senate, she
said, in the model of Elizabeth Warren, the liberal firebrand from Massachusetts
whom she admires.

For young women with more long-standing political ambitions, the election
results solidified their plans - while also laying bare the obstacles they may
face.

It has been Aurea BolaÃ±os Perea's dream to be a congresswoman virtually since
she immigrated to the United States from Mexico about a decade ago. On Wednesday
she set a deadline: A graduate student at California State University at Chico,
she plans to run for a local position in the San Joaquin Valley or San Diego
area in the next four years, before ultimately moving to the federal level.

She sees her life story as a refutation of Trump's rhetoric. For immigrants who
fear for their safety under his presidency, she said, "there needs to be someone
in power who will understand. That has to be me."

But she now knows how difficult her path will be.

"You see men who do not internalize failure like women do," BolaÃ±os Perea said.
"If before I thought I would need to prove myself five times over, now I see
that it's more like 10 times."

national@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             863 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The 'I'm with her' strategy backfired for Senate hopefuls

BYLINE: Paul Kane

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 1084 words


Two weeks before Election Day, at the final Pennsylvania Senate debate,
legendary Philadelphia newsman Jim Gardner began with what seemed like an easy
first question. "Can you tell us," Gardner asked Democrat Katie McGinty, "about
one issue where you disagree with your party or your potential president?"

"Thanks, Jim, and I do stand with Secretary Clinton," McGinty said. She spent
the next minute never distancing herself from Hillary Clinton. "I know this,
Secretary Clinton will fight for working families and that's what I'm going to
do as well."

It's now clear that Democratic strategists and the media spent too much time
focused on the wrong question, asking how Republicans would separate themselves
from their unpopular nominee, Donald Trump.

Instead of the president-elect being a drag on Republicans, Clinton became the
anchor to which Democratic candidates willingly attached themselves. Despite her
deep unpopularity throughout the campaign, no Democratic candidates for Senate
ever tried to separate themselves from Clinton in any meaningful way.

The results are stunning in their consistency.

Clinton lost Pennsylvania, the first Democratic presidential nominee to lose the
state since 1988, with 47.6 percent and a little more than 2.8 million votes.
McGinty lost, too, by almost the exact same margin, with 47.2 percent and about
50,000 fewer votes than Clinton. Clinton lost Wisconsin, with 46.9 percent, as
did former senator Russ Feingold (D) in the Senate race, with 46.8 percent and
1,800 fewer votes than Clinton.

Again and again, as they positioned themselves as generic Democrats supporting
Clinton, voters in turn treated these candidates quite generically.

In its final ratings, the independent Cook Political Report listed 11 Senate
races as either "toss-up" or "lean Democrat" or "lean Republican." Six of those
Democrats finished within 1.4 percentage points of Clinton's share in that same
state, according to the Associated Press's calculations. Three more fell well
behind her.

Only two Democrats in key races performed significantly better than Clinton:
Evan Bayh, who got 125,000 more votes than Clinton in Indiana, and Jason Kander,
who received about 230,00 more votes in Missouri. They both lost, by wide
margins, in states where Clinton received just 38 percent of the vote.

Not surprisingly, given their near-complete dependence on Clinton, Senate
Democrats only won three of those 11 races - in Illinois, Nevada and New
Hampshire. Those were the only three states of that bunch that Clinton put in
her electoral vote column.

It seemed like such a smart strategy a year ago, as the Republican primary
became increasingly bitter and GOP incumbents in swing states fretted about
their top-of-the-ticket problem. With fewer voters than ever splitting tickets
among presidential candidates and down-ballot races, Democrats believed they
could hitch their wagon to Clinton for victory.

There was no overhaul to the party's agenda after the 2014 midterms left
Democrats in the minority and needing a five-seat gain this fall to reclaim the
majority.

Democrats talked about getting a better "message," to a degree that it was clear
many didn't understand the difference between a message and an agenda. The
message is the thematic umbrella - Clinton's "Stronger Together" or Trump's
"Make America Great Again" - while the more difficult part is the granular
policy agenda.

In 2012, Vice President Biden struck gold with a campaign message: "Osama bin
Laden is dead and General Motors is alive." But President Obama's successful
reelection campaign had a broad agenda focused heavily on tax fairness, pledging
tax cuts for those making less than $250,000 and to raise taxes on the rich.

By 2014, Democrats did not have a broad agenda. Instead, they proposed a
minimum-wage increase and refinanced college loans for young voters, a guarantee
of equal pay for equal work for young female voters and new immigration laws for
Latino voters. This fall, the only significant update was a more robust proposal
to make college affordable.

"The problem is they talk to people in segments," Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), who is
challenging House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), recently told The
Washington Post's Daily 202. "Here's our LGBT community. Here's our labor guy.
That doesn't work. You stop becoming a national party. That's what happened."

Aside from regional accent, or delivery style, Democrats sounded remarkably
similar. In campaign appearances two days apart in mid-October, nothing
distinguished Catherine Cortez Masto, the former Nevada attorney general, from
Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick (D-Ariz.) in their policy positions.

Cortez Masto won the seat of retiring Senate Minority Leader Harry M. Reid
(D-Nev.), finishing within a few thousand votes of Clinton's winning margin.
Kirkpatrick got blown out by Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) as Clinton fell far
short there.

Democrats mocked Republican efforts to localize their races and predicted Trump
would define those campaigns. But in at least four states GOP incumbents broke
free of their nominee, winning reelection by a significantly larger margin than
Trump won their state: McCain and Sens. Ron Johnson (Wis.), Rob Portman (Ohio)
and Marco Rubio (Fla.).

In the campaign's final weeks, the undecided voters, particularly in
working-class regions, broke sharply against Clinton. Sen. Charles E. Schumer
(D-N.Y.), the incoming minority leader, acknowledged that Trump's anti-trade
agenda and vow to bring back manufacturing jobs connected with some traditional
Democrats.

"It's my view that the Democratic aspects of his economic program is what
brought the blue-collar vote to him, more than anything else, trade being the
tip of the spear," Schumer said in an interview last week with The Post.

So, as the bottom fell out of Clinton's campaign, Democratic Senate candidates
had little to fall back on. Trump even became a bonus for some Republicans,
winning by huge margins in Missouri and Indiana and by a larger-than-expected
four percentage points in North Carolina.

Some voters did split tickets for Trump and a Democrat - just not very much in
Senate races. In Pennsylvania, Democrats swept statewide races for attorney
general, auditor and treasurer, all receiving more votes than Clinton or
McGinty.

In the North Carolina governor's race, Democrat Roy Cooper is leading and likely
to be declared the winner. He received 180,000 more votes than the party's
Senate nominee, Deborah Ross.

That's the margin between winning and losing.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             864 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Early leads in 2020 race, but no clear Democratic heir

BYLINE: Chris Cillizza

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 829 words


By Election Day, ambitious Democrats had already resigned themselves to an
eight-year wait for their chance in the national spotlight. Hillary Clinton was
an overwhelming favorite against Donald Trump and, assuming she won, running a
primary challenge against her in four years would be a fool's errand.

Then Clinton lost.

Although this most stunning upset in modern presidential history has produced
(and will produce) a thousand aftershocks, one of the most unlikely and
important is that the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020 is now open.

That opening is made all the more remarkable by the fact that there is simply no
logical heir (or even heirs) to President Obama or Clinton - no obvious
candidate waiting in the wings to step forward and rebuild the party. Vice
President Biden appears to have decided that he is done running for office. As a
two-time loser, Clinton is done, too. And after that, the bench is, well, pretty
thin.

Politics, of course, abhors a vacuum. So candidates will run. Here is a look at
who they might be:

Sen. Cory Booker : Booker has been a national figure since the mid-2000s, when
he was elected mayor of Newark. His résumé - football at Stanford University, a
Rhodes scholarship - is impressive, and many Democrats see the young (he's 47),
charismatic, African American U.S. senator from New Jersey as the second coming
of Obama. But the campaign that Booker ran for the Senate in 2013 was more
competitive than it should have been largely because of his shaky performance.
He might start the 2020 race as the front-runner, but he still has lots of
questions that need answering.

Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand : Gillibrand may be the most logical heir to Clinton in
the 2020 field, but it remains to be seen whether that is a good thing. When
Obama chose Clinton to be secretary of state, Gillibrand was appointed to her
Senate seat in New York and then won two subsequent elections to hold the seat,
thanks to rock-star-level fundraising. Gillibrand, according to the New York
Post, is already feeling out some of Clinton's major donors about what comes
next for the party. At 49, Gillibrand is one of a handful of women primed to be
the next generation of female leaders for Democrats.

Sen.-elect Kamala Harris : Harris will not officially become a U.S. senator from
California for more than a month, but she is already regarded as
national-candidate material in four years. It is not hard to see why. She is the
first African American woman elected to the Senate since Carol Moseley Braun in
1992. Harris also represents the largest and most Democratic state in the
country, a huge financial launchpad to a presidential bid. (Through mid-October,
Harris had raised more than $13 million for her Senate candidacy.) Her
law-and-order background - she was elected and reelected attorney general in
California - also will appeal to many Democrats. Whether Harris wants to - or
will be ready to - run for national office so soon after being elected to the
Senate remains to be seen.

Gov. John Hickenlooper : The Colorado governor was almost Clinton's
vice-presidential pick this time around. And in a field filled with Washington
types, the governor of a swing state in the West could have real appeal.
Hickenlooper also has a terrific life story - a Denver brewery owner who became
mayor and governor - and a down-home demeanor that screams, "I am not a
politician." Hickenlooper's biggest problem as a candidate may be that he is
viewed as too moderate for the current Democratic Party. But some governor
(Missouri's Jay Nixon? Delaware's Jack Markell?) will run for president, and, at
the moment, Hickenlooper seems first among equals for that role.

Sen. Amy Klobuchar : Like Gillibrand, Klobuchar is an accomplished and ambitious
senator who cuts the sort of profile that should put her in the mix for 2020.
Unlike Gillibrand, though, Klobuchar represents Minnesota - not exactly a
fundraising hotbed for a national candidate. But she has an interesting
legislative background - she worked with Rep. John Kline (R-Minn.) to ensure
that veterans got the leave benefits they were promised before deploying, and
she is a leading voice on adoption in the Senate.

First lady Michelle Obama : Let's say this first: The soon-to-be-former first
lady has never run for elected office and, to date, has shown absolutely no
interest in doing so. But let's also say this: She gave the two best political
speeches of the past two years - the first at the Democratic National Convention
in July, the second in New Hampshire in the fall, an emotional condemnation of
Trump's America. Obama has one thing - with the possible exception of Booker -
that the rest of the people on this list lack: true star power. She would start
the race not only totally known by base Democrats but also absolutely beloved.
The issue for Obama is that being a candidate in your own right is very
different from being a surrogate for a candidate.

chris.cillizza@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             865 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                Regional Edition

Correction

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 125 words


l A Nov. 25 Page One article about Russia's propaganda campaign to influence the
U.S. presidential election said that the state-funded Russian information
services RT and Sputnik used the "#CrookedHillary" Twitter hashtag pushed by
then-Republican nominee Donald Trump. Sputnik used the hashtag, but RT did not.

The Washington Post is committed to correcting errors that appear in the
newspaper. Those interested in contacting the paper for that purpose can:

Email: corrections@washpost.com

Call:  202-334-6000, and ask to be connected to the desk involved - National,
Foreign, Metro, Style, Sports, Business or any of the weekly sections. Comments
can be directed to The Post's reader advocate, who can be reached at
202-334-7582 or readers@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             866 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                Regional Edition

The Fix's week in politics

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 341 words

BEST THING THAT HAPPENED TO DEMOCRATS

They are on their way to unseating a Southern Republican governor. In North
Carolina, Attorney General Roy Cooper (D) has declared victory over Gov. Pat
McCrory (R), who faced national criticism this year for signing into law a bill
limiting what bathrooms transgender people can use and prohibiting new LGBT
anti-discrimination ordinances. The race is still too close to call (within
about 10,000 votes of 4.2 million cast), and McCrory has formally requested a
recount. It is unclear what a recount will find, but so far, dozens of efforts
by McCrory's team to challenge votes cast across the state have failed to
produce evidence of any significant voter fraud or miscounted votes. Unseating a
sitting governor is one of the hardest things to do in politics, and if
Democrats can unseat McCrory, it will be one of the few bright spots for them in
the 2016 election cycle.

BEST THING THAT HAPPENED TO REPUBLICANS

Trump is installing campaign critics in his administration. A month ago, South
Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley (R) said Trump was "everything a governor didn't want
in a president." Now she has agreed to be his pick for U.N. ambassador. Mitt
Romney, the 2012 GOP presidential nominee, was the face of the anti-Trump wing
of the party, but now he is under consideration for secretary of state. Folding
in critics is one of the clearest ways for Trump to signal that he has a broad
coalition of support within the Republican Party. And that is the first step to
help him transition from a campaign that threatened to cleave the Republican
Party in two to a unified presidency.

- Amber Phillips

107,000

 The combined margin of victory  for Trump in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and
Michigan, three states where the Clinton campaign said it would participate in
recount efforts led by the Green Party.

More than

 The lead Hillary Clinton has  over Trump in the popular vote. (That lead could
grow. California still has more than 1 million ballots to count.)

124

 The number of days  since Trump has held a news conference.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             867 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Russia's pernicious fake news

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 325 words


Regarding the Nov. 25 front-page article "Research ties fake news to Russia":

The fake news planted in the United States during the presidential election is a
serious issue that demands a serious response. While we cannot say that the fake
news in itself was the decisive factor in this election, it clearly had a
pernicious effect, seriously misleading voters, particularly the supporters of
Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. They believed outrageous and
scurrilous tales about Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, stories
that lacked even a shred of truth. If these stories were concocted by amoral
entrepreneurs, this would be bad enough. The fact that the lies were concocted
and spread by Russian agents is outrageous.

We now stand at the brink of inaugurating as president a man who owes a
considerable debt to the Russians for the help they gave his campaign. Whom is
he going to serve: the people of the United States, or Russian powers that
assisted his presidential run? Any patriotic American should wonder where Mr.
Trump's true loyalties lie.

Eric Schwartz , Williamsport, Md.

Donald Trump claimed victory  on election night, but it may be Russia who is the
real victor. The article "Research ties fake news to Russia" reported that
planting fake news stories in politically conservative news outlets was an
effort to erode faith in U.S. democracy.

In another effort to put Mr. Trump in the White House, national security
analysts say,  Russian President Vladimir Putin and his cronies were behind the
hacking of the Democratic National Committee's emails. Interestingly, in spite
of Russia's misdeeds, Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton is about 2
million votes ahead in the popular vote. How are we to respond to this kind of
malicious interference in our democracy? Do we really want Russia, whose values
are contrary to those of the United States, choosing our next president?

Jo Ann Tooley , Arlington

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             868 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Mr. Trump's corrosive overreaction

BYLINE: Editorial Board

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 490 words


THE RECENT presidential campaign eroded custom after custom, but in the end the
legitimacy of the results and the sanctity of the peaceful transition of power
were reaffirmed. Or so it seemed.

Once the electoral college vote was clear, Hillary Clinton graciously conceded
to President-elect Donald Trump, and President Obama promised to work for a
smooth transition. Neither Democrat emphasized the fact that Ms. Clinton won the
popular vote. Russian government interference in the campaign is a legitimate
subject of concern, but Ms. Clinton properly chose not to use it to cast doubt
on the outcome of the election. Mr. Trump reciprocated her positive tone.

Then Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential nominee, pressed for recounts in a
handful of swing states, based on thin suspicions of election tampering. The
Clinton campaign indicated that it saw little reason to initiate a recount or
any other kind of inquiry, but announced it would join in anyway so its
representatives would be present for any official review. The likely results of
Ms. Stein's recount effort are twofold: enhancing her fundraising and sowing
unfounded doubts in Americans' minds about the integrity of the election.

Yet it was Mr. Trump's reaction that was the most corrosive. Following the
Clinton camp's decision to join in the recount, the president-elect lashed out
on Twitter on Sunday. "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a
landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted
illegally," Mr. Trump wrote, offering zero evidence for the incendiary charge.
The president-elect appeared to be repeating a debunked story circulating on
conspiracy-peddling right-wing websites that claims millions of noncitizens
voted.

Mr. Trump is the president-elect. He above all others bears responsibility to
safeguard and defend the integrity of the nation's democratic government.
Instead, he illogically attacked the very system that resulted in his victory.
For those who hoped that as president-elect he would be slower to take offense
than he had been as candidate, and less willing to trade in lies, the tweet came
as one more disappointment. Mr. Trump's overreaction suggests he is not prepared
for the responsibilities of the presidency or the scrutiny that comes with it.

The nation, in fact, does have a voting problem, but it is not the imaginary
fraud that Mr. Trump conjures. Rather, it is a system that makes it too
difficult for citizens to cast their votes. Registration procedures are
unnecessarily restrictive. Early voting opportunities are needlessly limited.
Lines are way too long. Names are too easily purged from voter rolls. Election
equipment lacks paper trails in some states. Yet, if Mr. Trump's preoccupation
with phantom voting fraud is any indication, his administration may spend a lot
of time making ballot access worse, not better. The integrity of the country's
democracy would suffer for it.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             869 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                Regional Edition

Trump's 'news' source: Voter fraud! Also, space lizards!

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 810 words


"Report: Three Million Votes in Presidential Election Cast by Illegal Aliens;
Trump may have won popular vote."

- Infowars,website of leading conspiracy theorist Alex Jones, Nov. 14

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."

- Donald Trump, president-elect of the United States, Nov. 27

We learned last week that President-elect Trump has been turning away his
intelligence briefers, leaving the tedious task of learning about
national-security threats to his understudy, Vice President-elect Pence.

So where is Trump getting his information? Well, now we know. On Sunday, Trump
tweeted out the wild allegations that "millions of people" voted illegally for
his opponent. He also tweeted that there was "serious voter fraud" in three
states that went for Hillary Clinton, "so why isn't the media reporting on
this?"

The media wasn't reporting on this because it's a load of hooey. But one "media"
outlet has been "reporting" the groundless allegations, and it's one that Trump
relied on frequently during the campaign: Alex Jones's Infowars, the radio and
Internet home of the grassy-knoll crowd.

For two weeks before Trump made his allegations, Jones had been alleging this
very thing, saying there was a "wall of fraud" and that at least "five states
were stolen" by Clinton. Jones alleged that Trump "clearly won the popular
vote," asserting that in addition to 3 million illegal immigrants who voted, 4
million dead people voted.

Trump, with his mixture of the incendiary and the fanciful, invented the
"Infowars campaign." Now comes the Infowars presidency. Let's see what else is
being promoted by the outlet where the next leader of the free world gets his
news:

"Pizzagate Is Real: Something Is Going On, But What?" Infowars reports,
asserting that "high-level Washington D.C. predatory pedophiles" are
communicating via "symbols" on the menu of Comet Ping Pong, a pizza place in
Northwest Washington. "Notice the symbol of the ping-pong paddles and its clever
resemblance to the FBI documents' symbol for child love," Infowars reports.

Right! And aliens from outer space have landed in Florida - news Infowars is
also currently breaking. "Was Florida Fireball a UFO?" Infowars asks, noting, "A
fireball shot through the Earth's atmosphere at 11pm on Nov. 23" and citing
"social media" for the UFO bit.

The well-informed consumers of Infowars also know that at the moment the
"Whereabouts of Julian Assange Remain a Mystery" since the election and
WikiLeaks wants people "to stop requesting proof of life."

Infowars listeners and readers know, as well, that requested recounts in three
states are an attempt by the Green Party "to push the 2016 election into the
hands of Congress." Somewhat contradictorily, this effort also means there's a
"Democrat Counter-Coup Against Trump in Progress." Jones warns that this is "a
real threat and [George] Soros is behind it," part of a "soft civil war."

Jones's rants would be funny if the soon-to-be most powerful man in the world
didn't rely so heavily on them.

Trump, the New York Times reported, called Jones after the election to thank him
for his support. Trump has been on the Jones show and praised the host's
"amazing reputation"; Trump adviser Roger Stone is an Infowars regular.

Trump has echoed Jones's allegations that climate change is a myth, that
President Obama wasn't born in America, that Muslims in New Jersey celebrated on
9/11, that Antonin Scalia was murdered, that Clinton used drugs before a debate,
that "globalists" (read: prominent Jews) are trying to take over America, that
vaccines cause autism and that Ted Cruz's father was involved in the John F.
Kennedy assassination. Jones, who says he advises Trump privately, boasts that
Trump repeats his ideas "word for word."

As the Right Wing Watch website has documented, Jones has alleged that the U.S.
government was responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks, the Oklahoma City bombings
and mass shootings such as Sandy Hook. Jones has said that "chemtrails" from
airplanes spread a "weaponized flu," that juice boxes are part of a
chemical-warfare operation to make children gay, that Justin Bieber is
brainwashing children to create an American police state, that Obama murdered
publisher Andrew Breitbart, that an "alien force not of this world" is targeting
Trump, that intergalactic shape-shifting reptilian humanoids secretly control
the world, and, of course, that water fluoridation is mass mind control.

Rest assured, fellow Americans: President Trump will deliver us from fluoride,
juice boxes, outer-space reptiles and the 7 million dead people and foreigners
who vote in our elections. Less clear is whether he'll protect us from the real
threats his intelligence briefers would tell him about - if he'd let them in.

Twitter: @Milbank

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             870 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Trump's vow on deporting criminals will be hard to fulfill

BYLINE: Carol Morello

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1144 words


Many nations refuse

to cooperate or delay the process; some retaliate

President-elect Donald Trump's vow to begin deporting undocumented immigrant
criminals means confronting two of the United States' biggest trading partners
as well as dozens of other countries, allies and foes that have refused to
cooperate on the issue or that significantly delay the repatriation process.

The State and Homeland Security departments list 23 countries as "uncooperative"
for refusing to take back many of their citizens who came to the United States -
in some cases decades ago - and have been ordered deported after being convicted
of felonies.

Cuba tops the list, followed by China, Somalia, India and Ghana.

Traffic offenses, especially driving under the influence of alcohol, accounted
for the largest category of convictions, followed by drug offenses and larceny.

In most cases, the immigrants, who do not hold U.S. citizenship, have no
passport or birth certificate to prove their original citizenship, and their
home countries refuse to issue new travel documents.

Once they have completed prison time in the United States, they cannot continue
to be held pending deportation, following a 2001 Supreme Court decision that
found that the United States cannot detain them indefinitely. The court ruled
that they must be released within 180 days of serving their sentence, even if
their home countries won't accept them.

An additional 62 countries - led by Vietnam, Haiti, Brazil, Pakistan and Senegal
-  are accused by the U.S. government of dragging their feet in issuing travel
documents. And without valid travel papers, authorities here are unable to put
people on planes home.

This list includes allies such as Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Greece, Sweden
and Turkey, as well as foes such as Syria and Russia.

Absent from both lists is Mexico, which has been the focus of some of Trump's
most heated statements about undocumented immigrants who commit crimes.

During the presidential campaign and in interviews after the election, Trump
said he would make it a priority to track down and deport as many as 2 million
to 3 million undocumented immigrants with criminal records.

"What we are going to do is get the people that are criminal and have criminal
records - gang members, drug dealers, we have a lot of these people, probably 2
million, it could be even 3 million," he said in an interview with CBS's "60
Minutes." "We are getting them out of our country or we are going to
incarcerate. But we're getting them out of our country; they're here illegally."

Many immigration experts say the numbers are probably not nearly that high. In
2012, the Obama administration estimated that 1.9 million people in the country
were "removable criminal aliens." But that number includes people with green
cards, who are legal residents, and people convicted of nonviolent crimes. The
Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research organization, estimates that
about 820,000 of 1.9 million deportable criminals were undocumented.

The State Department has played hardball twice to force repatriations, both
times targeting small countries.

In 2001, the United States imposed a visa ban on government officials from
Guyana, a South American country that had delayed receiving deportees. It
complied within months.

In September, the State Department stopped issuing visas to government officials
in Gambia, an African country with about 1,200 citizens in the United States who
have final deportation orders. The following month, according to a spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Gambian Embassy issued travel documents
to 11 citizens.

Gambian officials say they have complied and are hopeful that the visa ban will
be lifted soon.

"We could not identify them, that they really were Gambians," said Hamba Manneh,
a consular officer with the embassy. "We asked ICE to send us another list.
We've issued travel documents, and now they are sending them back home."

Cracking down on countries that are blocking or delaying deportations can invite
reciprocal measures, affecting international business, tourism and human rights,
said Doris Meissner, a former commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. As a result, the State Department has tried to negotiate with countries
reluctant to take back their citizens.

"Typically, the country would retaliate and say, 'If you're not issuing visas to
us, we won't issue visas to you,' " said Meissner, now a fellow at the Migration
Policy Institute. "Or they will suspend visas they already have issued. Right
away, it puts a lot of stuff into play that hurts the United States. Business
travel, the transfer of executives, foreign students going back and forth,
tourism."

But some lawmakers want a more forceful response. Senate Judiciary Committee
Chairman Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) has accused the Obama administration of
failing to use its authority to stop issuing visas as leverage to force
cooperation.

"Lives are being lost, the public's safety is at risk and American families are
suffering," he said in a June letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson.
"It cannot continue."

Chuck Ambrose, a retired federal prosecutor in Kansas City, said he has dealt
with the failure to act. In 2005, he said he prosecuted an Afghan citizen who
conspired to distribute cocaine, but after his release from prison, the man was
not repatriated. Ambrose said the Afghan subsequently took part in a vicious
assault on a Marine, and Ambrose had to prosecute him again in 2009.

"Among the 23 countries that are listed, two stuck out at me - Afghanistan and
Iraq," Ambrose said. "I cannot imagine two nations we would have more leverage
over. ... I think our State Department should grow some teeth, rather than
flapping their gums."

In testimony before the House Oversight Committee this summer, Michele Thorne
Bond, assistant secretary for consular affairs, said her staff and Secretary of
State John F. Kerry raised the issue in meetings with some of the laggard
countries. But she said repatriations of convicted criminals sometimes get
tangled up with conflicting interests.

Cuba, she said, will consider taking back its citizens only if there are changes
to U.S. policy on Cuban migration. China links its cooperation with the return
of fugitives accused of criminal acts in China, but who may, in fact, have fled
the country for political reasons.

Bond also noted that Chinese visitors contribute $29 billion to the U.S. economy
annually, and 2,000 American families adopted children from China last year -
all of which could be affected by a dispute with China.

India, too, is deeply intertwined with the United States and, for instance,
sends 130,000 students here each year.

Officials at the Indian Embassy said they are willing to take back their
nationals - once offered proof of citizenship.

carol.morello@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             871 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Trump's team frays over Romney

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;John Wagner

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 1687 words


Some balk at key  job going to critic

President-elect looks at other candidates for State

President-elect Donald Trump is for now unswayed by the extraordinarily public
revolt by some of his top advisers and allies over the possible choice of Mitt
Romney as secretary of state and continues to see his foe as a serious contender
for the diplomatic post, several people briefed on the deliberations said
Monday.

Romney plans to have a private dinner Tuesday with Trump, who is said to be
intrigued by the notion of reconciling with one of his fiercest Republican
antagonists - even as he also weighs rewarding the loyalty of former New York
mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani with one of the administration's most prized jobs or
selecting a decorated military officer in David H. Petraeus.

Trump is looking for assurances that Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential
nominee who has championed a muscular and at times interventionist foreign
policy, could be trusted to defend and promote Trump's markedly different
worldview in capitals around the globe, the people familiar with the
president-elect's deliberations said.

Giuliani has openly campaigned for the job and has told friends that he is
likely to get it. But Trump's team has determined that it may be challenging and
even unlikely for Giuliani to win Senate confirmation: His web of international
business interests and the millions of dollars he has earned in paid speeches
and consulting work for foreign entities would come under scrutiny, while Sen.
Rand Paul (Ky.), one of 10 Republicans on the Foreign Relations Committee, has
threatened to block Giuliani's nomination.

Romney and Giuliani have been seen as co-favorites to lead the State Department,
but Trump this week is expanding his search to include other candidates, chief
among them Petraeus, a retired Army general and former CIA director.

Transition officials said Trump has long admired Petraeus and described his
candidacy as formidable, despite the baggage he would carry into any
confirmation battle because of his 2015 conviction for mishandling classified
information. Petraeus's public service career came to an end amid revelations
that he had an affair with his biographer, Paula Broadwell, and shared
classified information with her.

On the campaign trail, Trump played down the significance of Petraeus's
conviction, repeatedly arguing that it was "a fraction" of what Democratic
nominee Hillary Clinton had gotten away with by using a personal email server as
secretary of state.

Petraeus and Trump met Monday afternoon in New York for about an hour, with Vice
President-elect Mike Pence joining them for part of the session. As the general
exited Trump Tower following their session, he praised Trump, telling reporters
that he "showed a great grasp of a variety of the challenges that are out there
and some of the opportunities as well. Very good conversation, and we'll see
where it goes from here."

Trump later tweeted, "Just met with General Petraeus - was very impressed!"

Trump will meet Tuesday with Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), who officials said could
emerge as a candidate, although the senator has said that he is unlikely to end
up in serious contention. As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
Corker would oversee the confirmation process of Trump's nominee.

Trump is hiring for other key positions as well. He has chosen Rep. Tom Price
(R-Ga.), one of the Hill's fiercest critics of President Obama's health-care
law, to be secretary of health and human services. And Trump met Monday with two
candidates for secretary of homeland security: Frances Townsend, a former
homeland security official in the George W. Bush administration, and David
Clarke, the controversial sheriff of Milwaukee County, Wis. Trump is to meet
Tuesday with a third contender, Rep. Michael McCaul (R-Tex.), who chairs the
House Homeland Security Committee.

The nascent Trump transition has been riven by infighting over the possible
nomination of Romney, who is seen as the quintessential establishment figure and
who spoke out against Trump's candidacy in unusually harsh and personal terms.

Pence and some Trump advisers are said to have argued that Romney would be a
steady hand prepared to help shape relationships around the world. Trump is said
to have buried the hatchet with Romney at their Nov. 19 meeting in Bedminster,
N.J., and sees a political benefit to bringing him into the administration:
silencing a rival Republican who has a big microphone and a network of wealthy
donors.

But other Trump intimates have advocated forcefully for Giuliani, a trusted
loyalist and brash Trump defender who developed a close bond with the candidate
and is more ideologically in sync with him.

The feud spilled into the open over Thanksgiving weekend as Kellyanne Conway,
Trump's former campaign manager and now a senior adviser to the transition team,
attacked Romney's credentials and trustworthiness in a trio of Sunday television
appearances. Conway said on CNN that she has received a "breathtaking" amount of
messages from Trump supporters "who feel betrayed to think that Governor Romney
would get the most prominent Cabinet post after he went so far out of his way to
hurt Donald Trump."

Conway is part of a cadre of Trump allies who are waging an unprecedented public
battle against Romney in an attempt to influence the president-elect's decision,
sow doubts about Romney in the minds of Trump's core supporters and create an
environment in which he would be a toxic nominee.

Rep. Chris Collins (R-N.Y.), one of Trump's top backers on Capitol Hill, blasted
Romney on Monday on CNN as "a self-serving egomaniac who puts himself first, who
has a chip on his shoulder and thinks that he should be president of the United
States."

And Brent Bozell, an influential conservative activist, issued a statement
declaring that "the very idea of Mitt Romney as Secretary of State - or any
other cabinet position in a Trump administration - is a slap to his
supporters.''

Trump observers said the president-elect has taken a page out of his playbook
for "The Apprentice," his hit reality show on NBC.

"Trump is pitting people against other people, seeing how it plays out," said
Jeffrey Tulis, a professor of government at the University of Texas at Austin.
He said Romney is being "humiliated by the process" but that Trump "has a model
of conflict between advisers and subordinates that he thinks has worked for him
in his business and on his TV show. He's very comfortable with turmoil."

Over the Thanksgiving break, as Trump relaxed with his wife, Melania, and family
at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Fla., he asked guests and friends to
weigh in on the choice between Romney and Giuliani. Two Trump friends confirmed
the holiday discussions, which were first reported by the New York Post.

"Donald personally wasn't negative on Romney, but said he had gotten a lot of
negative feedback on Romney, and Melania also had gotten a lot of negative
feedback. And it seemed clear he had reservations about Rudy," said one person
close to the transition, who requested anonymity to recount private
conversations with the Trumps.

Joe Scarborough, the host of MSNBC's "Morning Joe," reported on air Monday that
Conway had committed "an act of sabotage" against Romney and that Trump was
"furious" with her.

Later Monday morning, on a conference call with reporters, Trump spokesman Jason
Miller would neither confirm nor deny that characterization of Trump's attitude.
He said only, "I'll leave that to the president-elect if he wants to add any
additional commentary."

Miller added that Trump was meeting with Romney on Tuesday because "the two,
quite frankly, haven't spent much time together, so this gives them a little
more time to do so.''

Conway did not respond to a request for comment and declined to speak with
reporters at Trump Tower. At 7:37 p.m., she tweeted a photo of her and Trump in
his office studying something on a computer screen, saying they were "working
hard" together.

One associate said that although Trump "likes the theatrics of it all," he has
chafed at feeling pressured to nominate Giuliani.

Other Trump associates, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity because of
the sensitivity of the matter, poured cold water on the suggestion that Conway
was freelancing.

"The boss is genuinely conflicted," one transition official said. A third
person, who is close to the transition team, added, "I don't think Kellyanne
went off the reservation. [Still,] Trump would love to have Romney work for him
... and at the very least, he loves to have Romney grovel for the job."

Jim Manley, a longtime senior Senate aide who most recently worked for Senate
Minority Leader Harry M. Reid (D-Nev.), said the public approach Trump is taking
is both "undiplomatic" and "gauche."

"One of the most important positions in our government is being used as a
political football to settle political scores," Manley said. "Of all my years of
watching the confirmation process, I've never seen anything like this. ...
You've got staff who may or may not be going rogue to advance their own agenda.

"It's bringing out the worst in people."

One of Trump's biggest concerns is whether Romney would advocate Trump's
perspective in closed-door meetings with foreign leaders. The two men have
different views on Russia's aggression and U.S. trade policy, among other
issues, although they have similarly aggressive postures when it comes to
fighting Islamic State terrorists and cracking down on a Chinese government they
see as manipulative and exploitative.

Doug Wilson, chairman of the board of advisers of the Truman National Security
Project, said Trump should be certain there is "a cohesive foreign policy that
will be supported by all the players."

"It's one thing to talk about a team of rivals," Wilson said, a reference to
former president Abraham Lincoln's Cabinet. "It's another thing to talk about a
team of rivals when you go beyond the water's edge."

philip.rucker@washpost.com

john.wagner@washpost.com

David Nakamura in New York and Jerry Markon and Elise Viebeck in Washington
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             872 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                Suburban Edition

Breitbart not only site in awkward territory

BYLINE: Paul Farhi

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 827 words


Foundation headed by Trump Cabinet pick helped launch The 74

Former network TV anchor Campbell Brown has always said she wanted her
education-news site, The 74, to be perceived as a nonpartisan source for
improving the nation's primary- and secondary-school education.

But Donald Trump may have just dumped a major conflict of interest right into
Brown's, and The 74's, lap.

By naming billionaire philanthropist Betsy DeVos as his pick for secretary of
education on Wednesday, Trump put Brown in the awkward position of covering one
of her closest allies.

A foundation headed by DeVos was among the wealthy education-restructuring
advocates that funded Brown's website when it launched last year. DeVos and
Brown - formerly an NBC News anchor and the host of a prime-time show on CNN -
are also on the board of the American Federation for Children, which promotes
charter-school and government-funded vouchers to subsidize private education.
The AFC and The 74 co-sponsored a forum involving Republican presidential
candidates last year.

All of which means The 74 would be covering the policy pronouncements and
initiatives of one of the people to which it owes its existence.

News organizations sometimes wrestle with subjects and people that are close to
their own interests. The Washington Post, for example, is owned by Amazon.com
founder Jeffrey P. Bezos, whose company and activities are occasionally the
subject of Post stories and editorials. In such cases, the connection between
the paper and its owner is disclosed within the article.

But in DeVos's case, The 74's interests are more direct, overlapping and
constant. As a site seeking to lead "an honest, fact-based conversation" free of
"misinformation and political spin" about the United States' under-18
population, its coverage of DeVos and her advocacy of school vouchers and
charter schools will be inherent in almost everything it publishes.

DeVos's appointment appears to place the site, which is named for the 74 million
school-age children in the United States, in much the same position as
Breitbart, the digital conservative-news operation. Breitbart's executive
chairman, Stephen K. Bannon, has been named Trump's chief White House
strategist.

Brown referred questions about her operation to a spokesman, Dan Bank, who said
the site discloses its funding relationships in a note published with stories in
which the relationships are relevant.

A recent analysis by 74 writer Matt Barnum included this note: "The Dick & Betsy
DeVos Family Foundation provides funding to The 74, and the site's
Editor-in-Chief, Campbell Brown, sits on the American Federation for Children's
board of directors, which is chaired by Betsy DeVos. Brown played no part in the
editing of this article. The American Federation for Children also sponsored The
74's 2015 New Hampshire education summit."

That's not enough, say those who oppose DeVos and the education-restructuring
agenda.

"Given the fact that Betsy DeVos is a funder of The 74, it is hard to see how
the publication can cover her appointment fairly," said education historian
Diane Ravitch, who has clashed with Brown and DeVos on policy matters before. In
view of the close "personal and financial ties" between DeVos and Brown, Ravitch
said, the site "should not cover the U.S. Department of Education for the next
four years."

Brown has previously recused herself from making editorial decisions for her
site about the AFC and the Success Academy charter-school network because she
sits on the board of both organizations.

Bank said, however, that Brown will not need to recuse herself from coverage of
DeVos, because DeVos will step down from the AFC and her family foundation will
no longer be funding The 74 if she is confirmed as education secretary.

Since leaving CNN in 2010 as the host of a program originally titled "No Bias,
No Bull," Brown has been one of the most visible faces of a movement that seeks
to challenge teachers unions while advocating for the further privatization of
public education. Many of her stated positions align with those of DeVos, who
has been a longtime advocate for shifting public funds from public schools to
charters operated by private entrepreneurs and for taxpayer-funded vouchers that
subsidize the cost of private schools.

In late 2013, Brown founded the Partnership for Educational Justice, a nonprofit
group that seeks to overturn teacher-tenure laws that give underperforming
teachers due process in dismissal actions. She has also been outspoken in favor
of charter schools.

Upon launching her website last year, Brown acknowledged that her site would
straddle the line between journalism and advocacy "for a public school system
that truly serves the 74 million children in this country."

She wrote at the time: "I have learned that not every story has two sides. And I
will not allow for false equivalency when a child's future is being compromised,
regardless of the vitriol it provokes."

paul.farhi@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             873 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Republican opposites may very well attract

BYLINE: Michael Kranish

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1447 words


Romney pal sees Trump and potential State pick balancing each other out

Shortly after Donald Trump won the presidential election, one of Mitt Romney's
closest friends sent him an urgent plea over email: Move past the campaign
hostility and, for the "best interests of the country," consider joining the new
president's team as his secretary of state.

Then the friend, Stephen Pagliuca, who worked with Romney at Bain Capital and
has socialized with Trump, urged advisers to the president-elect to press Trump
to name Romney for the State Department job.

Pagliuca's messages, which he sent shortly after he saw that Romney's name was
being floated, are part of the behind-the-scenes effort to heal a seemingly
unbridgeable divide between two bitter foes, one a beloved figure of the
Republican establishment and the other who upended his party hierarchy and won
the White House as an avowed outsider.

During the campaign, Romney called Trump a "phony" and a "fraud," and Trump said
Romney was a "choker" who walked "like a penguin."

But Pagliuca, a co-owner of the Boston Celtics and a Democrat, said he knew
something that others didn't. When he golfed with Trump at a Boston-area course
some years ago, Trump had talked at length about how much he admired Bain
Capital, a private equity firm that Romney led until 1999.

Today, as Pagliuca and other Romney backers see it, Trump, 70, and the
69-year-old Romney had far more in common than many realize: Both came to
prominence as risk takers and dealmakers, and both have spent much of their
lives seeking to emulate and outdo the success of their famous fathers. Trump's
father, Fred, was a New York City developer, and Romney's father, George, was a
governor of Michigan who unsuccessfully sought the presidency.

This shared background may not be enough to persuade Trump to nominate Romney to
be his secretary of state.

Nevertheless, Trump has made clear that Romney is a candidate for the job, and
the two met Tuesday night for nearly two hours over dinner at Jean-Georges
restaurant in New York, accompanied by the Republican National Committee
chairman, Reince Priebus, who is slated to be White House chief of staff.

Speaking to reporters, Romney sounded nothing like the man who earlier this year
declared Trump a fraud, remarking instead that he was deeply impressed with the
president-elect. He did not apologize for his earlier criticism.

Romney said that his conversation with Trump was "enlightening and interesting
and engaging" and that he had been "very impressed" by Trump's victory speech,
which called for inclusion.

The former Massachusetts governor said he has been impressed by Trump's
transition operation and by the people selected for other Cabinet posts. Romney
said that all of those factors "give me increasing hope that President-elect
Trump is the very man who can lead us to" a bright future.

Trump's consideration of the 2012 Republican presidential nominee has drawn
outrage from some, but advocates argue that Romney's background and intellect
would provide a crucial balance for the foreign policy team.

"I think Trump sees that," Pagliuca said.

Romney, meanwhile, sees the possible job not just as a way to fulfill his desire
to serve, but also to salve deep wounds, having lost both the race for the
Republican presidential nomination in 2008 and the 2012 general election
campaign for president.

"Romney's motivation, I suspect, is that losing twice still stings, so achieving
a prominent position like secretary of state would wash away some of the
bitterness of losing two presidential elections," said Rob Gray, who served as a
key adviser during Romney's Massachusetts gubernatorial campaign and
governorship.

A Trump spokesman did not respond to a request for comment.

Romney associates said they see him as a person who would make up for Trump's
deficiencies.

"I would describe a potential relationship as complementary," said Marc Wolpow,
who worked with Romney at Bain Capital from 1990 to 1999 and also has met Trump.
"I think if you would merge both of them you'd have the perfect president ...
Mitt could be the good cop to the bad cops that surround Trump."

Wolpow said the two men probably see qualities in the other that each is
missing. Romney, he said, failed to connect with blue-collar voters and made
"excuses" for his wealth, but he possesses the diplomatic skills to be secretary
of state. Trump hit it off with many average voters and cited his financial
fortune as part of his appeal, but his brusque manner could be problematic in
handling world affairs.

"Mitt has the brilliance, the analytical mind, the temperament," Wolpow said. "I
think Trump sees in Mitt ... qualities that Trump doesn't have, and I think Mitt
sees in Trump qualities that Mitt doesn't have."

Associates said Romney's Mormon faith also plays a role. Although they said
Romney would not try to use the position of secretary of state to directly
influence people to consider converting to his religion, the job would be one of
the highest-profile government positions ever held by a Mormon, which could help
the church's effort to gain acceptance around the world.

Trump, for his part, has a history of working with Mormons and has said he
values their work ethic. Trump once counted as his closest friend and business
associate a Mormon named Stephen Hyde, who oversaw Trump's Atlantic City casino
empire until he died in a 1989 helicopter crash. Trump, in an interview with The
Washington Post earlier this year, said he admired the way Hyde devoted himself
to his work and his church, recalling that the company deducted Hyde's tithing
directly from his paycheck.

"Every month he would give a big percentage of his salary to the Mormon church,
which I always respected a lot," Trump said.

Romney's moralistic sense of responsibility couldn't be more different from
Trump's self-styled playboy lifestyle, which has included two divorces and a
high-profile affair. But Trump and Romney share a trait that is important to
both men: Trump, whose brother died of symptoms related to alcoholism, and
Romney share an aversion to alcohol; both men have said they never drink.

Romney, like Trump, does not have deep experience in foreign affairs. He served
as a Mormon missionary in France, did some deals around the world and oversaw
the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics. During the 2012 campaign, he relied heavily on
a bevy of foreign policy and military advisers, not always successfully. During
a visit, he stunned British organizers of the Olympics by saying their efforts
at security were "disconcerting." The Guardian headlined a story about his
visit, "Mitt Romney visits London while stumbling on almost every front."

Romney famously labeled Russia as the No. 1 geopolitical foe of the United
States, a view mocked by some at the time but later seen as prescient, given
Russia's annexation of Crimea and other actions. Trump has taken a rosier view,
signaling that he wants to reset Russian relations.

Romney, whose father was born in Mexico - where the family had moved to escape
anti-polygamy laws in the United States - has urged closer ties between the
United States and its southern neighbor. Trump has promised to build a wall
between the nations and make Mexico pay for it, and he proposed banning most
Muslims from entering the country. That prompted Romney earlier this year to say
Trump "creates scapegoats of Muslims and Mexican immigrants."

The two agree, however, on many other foreign policy issues, such as moving the
U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, a top priority for Trump. Romney said in
2012 that he would declare China a currency manipulator on his first day in
office, a pledge duplicated by Trump. When Trump endorsed Romney in 2012, Romney
said he was "very pleased" because Trump "shares my concern about China - the
fact that China has been able to run roughshod over many industries in this
country. Presidents have complained about it, but really haven't taken action to
stop China from taking away our jobs."

Trump initially mocked Romney's plan to have 11 million illegal immigrants
"self-deport," calling it "crazy" and "maniacal," warning that it would cause
the Republican Party to lose many Hispanic supporters. But Trump eventually
one-upped Romney on his proposal, calling for forced deportation and saying some
Mexican immigrants were criminals and "rapists" and "some, I assume, are good
people."

As for Trump's assertion that Romney walked like a penguin, the president-elect
recently looked at Romney and saw a different visage. He said Romney, who is
invariably formal, well-coifed and finely dressed, "looks the part" of secretary
of state.

michael.kranish@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             874 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

The election really was rigged

BYLINE: Dana Milbank

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 833 words


A voting scandal of epic proportion tilted this election. The scam involved
millions of people.

No, I'm not talking about the recount the Clinton campaign joined in Wisconsin
and may seek in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Hillary Clinton and her aides were
correct before, when they said voting fraud is rare. The recounts won't change
the election's outcome. And after rightly criticizing Donald Trump for saying he
might not honor the election results, Clinton and her aides, who admit they have
no evidence of skullduggery, risk looking hypocritical.

Neither am I talking about Trump's outlandish and baseless claim that millions
of non-citizens and dead people voted illegally. That's as absurd as his
preelection claims that the voting system was "rigged."

Both distract from the real scandal, which is happening in plain sight. Millions
of would-be voters didn't participate because of obstacles designed to
discourage them. The hurdles were, thanks to a 2013 Supreme Court ruling
invalidating key parts of the Voting Rights Act, largely legal. And they
arguably suppressed enough minority voters to cost Clinton the election.

Fourteen states had new voting restrictions in place for the first time in a
presidential election, and 20 have had such restrictions put in place since
2010, according to the Brennan Center for Justice, a group that opposes such
laws. These include strict photo-ID requirements, cutbacks in early voting and
new restrictions on registration. Other states are resisting efforts that would
make voting easier with same-day, online and motor-voter registration.

At the same time, the Leadership Conference Education Fund, a civil rights
group, found that counties previously covered by the Voting Rights Act have
closed down at least 868 polling places. The closures (often without adequate
notice) disproportionately affect minority voters.

"We have across most states some significant element of voter suppression," says
Zoltan Hajnal, a University of California at San Diego political scientist
specializing in voting rights. "Over time these have shrunk the electorate in
significant ways and tilted the electorate toward the Republican Party."

The total number of would-be voters deterred is in the "millions," he said. "If
you were to superimpose the most liberal voting laws on all the states, it's
quite likely we would have had a different winner" on Nov. 8.

Though it's difficult to quantify the effect of voter suppression in 50 states,
Hajnal reports in a new study that after Texas implemented a strict voter-ID
law, Latino turnout dropped sharply between 2010 and 2014, and the gap between
white and Latino turnout increased by 9.2 percentage points. In the rest of the
country, the gap between white and Latino turnout decreased over the same
period.

Wisconsin adopted a tough photo-ID law, and in Milwaukee, where a large number
of African Americans don't drive or have licenses, turnout declined in 2016 by
41,000 compared with 2012, a 15 percent drop. Turnout was significantly lower
than in 2004 and 2008 as well. The dropoff was steepest in the poorest
precincts.

"No matter how hard one tries to attribute this to lower voter interest in this
election, the stark drop must be attributable to impact of the photo-ID rule,"
argues Kristen Clarke, head of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under
Law.

Elsewhere, suppression efforts have grown more brazen. After a federal appellate
court knocked down North Carolina's  voting restrictions because they targeted
black voters with "almost surgical precision," dozens of counties still cut
hours for early voting, which minority voters use disproportionately.

In Texas, similarly, officials disregarded parts of a federal appellate court
decision limiting that state's voter-ID law. And in Pennsylvania, there were
widespread reports of elections officials demanding voters show IDs even though
that state doesn't have such a law.

In the short run, this makes tactical sense for Republicans. Democratic- leaning
minority voters - African Americans, Asian Americans and particularly Latinos -
are forecast to grow to a majority of the voting-eligible population at
mid-century, from 31 percent today. By suppressing this vote, the effect of the
demographic change can be delayed.

The Trump administration seems to be fine with holding back the tide. The man
picked to be attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has opposed even legal
immigration. And, according to a report this week by Scott Shane of the New York
Times, Stephen K. Bannon, Trump's pick to be the top White House strategist,
once mused to a co-worker that restricting voting rights of African Americans
might not be "such a bad thing."

So let's not get distracted by Trump's fantastic claims of millions of illegal
votes, nor by Clinton's search for a voting-system cyberattack that even the
computer scientist urging the recount says has "probably not" occurred. Focus
instead on the scandal that really is rigging American democracy.

Twitter: @Milbank

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             875 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

It's the economy, Democrats

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 126 words


Now that the election is over, the Democratic Party and its nominee, Hillary
Clinton, with clear 20-20 hindsight, realize that they completely ignored the
plight of the white working class (and the middle class in general). That our
own domestic issues took a back seat to an aggressive foreign policy that would
likely bankrupt (if not destroy) our nation was unforgivable in the minds of
many voters and cost the Democrats an easy victory.

How is it that both the party and Ms. Clinton completely forgot (or ignored) the
clarion call of Bill Clinton's campaign, "It's the economy, stupid," which
helped him defeat George H.W. Bush in 1992? They may realize their error now,
but hindsight is not a qualification for the presidency.

Wayne R. Knight , McLean

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             876 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                Regional Edition

House Democrats seek probe of Trump finances

BYLINE: Mike DeBonis

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 541 words


GOP's Chaffetz urged to show a 'sense of urgency' on ethical questions

Democrats this week made their strongest call to date for a congressional
investigation into President-elect Donald Trump's business entanglements and
possible conflicts of interest, asking the GOP's top House investigator to
launch a formal probe.

Seventeen Democratic members of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee on Monday called on the panel's chairman, Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah)
to "begin reviewing [Trump's] financial arrangements in order to identify and
protect against conflicts of interest." The demand, in a seven-page letter,
comes two weeks after the committee's ranking Democrat, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings
(Md.), made a similar request to Chaffetz.

That request, according to the Democrats, did not receive a reply.

"You acted with unprecedented urgency to hold 'emergency' hearings and issue
multiple unilateral subpoenas to investigate [Democratic presidential nominee
Hillary Clinton] before the election," Cummings and 16 other Democrats wrote.
"We ask that you show the same sense of urgency now."

The Democrats said their phone lines have been "flooded" by supporters of an
investigation into Trump's business dealings, "jamming our phone lines with more
calls than we have ever received in response to any other issue."

Their letter asks Chaffetz to request copies of Trump's income tax returns and
to invite Trump aides to brief lawmakers on "their plans for protecting against
conflicts of interest." It cites multiple news reports raising questions about
whether Trump would be able to keep his business dealings at arm's length as
long as his children continue running his companies under the Trump Organization
umbrella.

The Washington Post, for example, reported that at least 111 Trump companies
have done business in 18 countries and territories - creating a panoply of
potential ethical pitfalls as Trump takes the nation's foreign policy reins.

The concerns also land closer to home: Trump's new hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue
NW is operated in a government-owned building under a lease with the General
Services Administration. Neither Trump nor the GSA has indicated how they plan
to eliminate or mitigate a possible conflict of interest, and there are already
indications that the hotel is a prominent venue for those seeking to curry favor
with the incoming president.

Before Trump's win on Nov. 8, Chaffetz had pledged to continue vigorously
investigating Clinton's use of a private email server while she was secretary of
state from 2009 to 2013. Afterward, he said the email investigation would
continue. "I still have a duty and obligation to get to the truth about one of
the largest breaches of security at the State Department," he said on Nov. 9.

Chaffetz has not publicly addressed how he intends to handle questions about
Trump's business dealings. Generally speaking, except in the most egregious
circumstances, congressional investigators tend to handle presidents of their
own parties with kid gloves.

In an interview with the Daily Caller this month, Chaffetz said it was his
panel's  "job and responsibility ... to oversee all expenditures by the
executive branch, no matter who the president is."

michael.debonis@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             877 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Where's the GOP outrage on Russia?

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 174 words


I share the concern Eric Chenoweth expressed in his Nov. 27 op-ed, "What about
Russia's meddling?," about the puzzling lack of focus by politicians and opinion
leaders on Russia's dangerous and unprecedented manipulation of our election.

Most important, as Mr. Chenoweth asked, "Where are the committee chairmen in
Congress demanding an investigation? How is it that Republican Party leaders
accept the intervention of a foreign power in the election of their party's
presidential candidate?"

The GOP struts its patriotism and ardent defense of American values on every
stage, yet its response to this shocking and unprecedented manipulation of our
democracy has been feeble, at best.

While Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's management of her State
Department emails triggered massive GOP outrage, Russia's interventions in our
election trigger random statements. Republicans (and Democrats) have a deep
responsibility to come together to get answers to the questions Mr. Chenoweth
and others have raised.

R.C. Garton , Bethesda

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             878 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

With Romney's capitulation, Trump's takeover of the GOP is now complete

BYLINE: Philip Rucker;

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 1072 words


For Republicans fearful of a Donald Trump presidency, Mitt Romney was their
voice and conscience. The GOP's 2012 presidential nominee became the unyielding
face of the resistance to the party's 2016 nominee.

Then Trump won.

One by one, Republicans who stood up to Trump or questioned his statements and
antics have made a pilgrimage to Trump Tower to kiss the president-elect's ring,
or joined his administration, or decided uncharacteristically to just keep their
mouths shut.

And at long last Tuesday night, the figurehead of the "Never Trump" movement
also capitulated. After an intimate dinner with Trump of frog legs and diver
scallops at a fine Manhattan restaurant (in a Trump-owned building), Romney
publicly acquiesced.

In an apparent attempt to secure Trump's trust in him as a possible secretary of
state, Romney lavished praise on the president-elect: Trump's dinner company was
"enlightening and interesting and engaging" and his transition appointments give
him "increasing hope that President-elect Trump is the very man who can lead us
to that better future."

Romney's turnabout illustrates the power that comes with winning - the ability
to reshuffle the political hierarchy.

In less than two months, Trump will be the president of the United States. And
with Romney's move, Trump has officially and almost completely cowed the
elements of the Republican Party that had shunned the real estate tycoon and
reality-television star during the turbulent campaign.

Some Republican Trump critics - such as Sens. John McCain (Ariz.), Jeff Flake
(Ariz.), Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.) and Rand Paul (Ky.) - have shown some signs of
resistance and could emerge as counterweights to the new administration on some
issues.

But so far, at least, their postures have been relatively meek. McCain declared
Tuesday that he was finished talking about Trump. Asked to weigh in on Trump's
call to penalize people who burn the American flag with jail time or loss of
citizenship, McCain told CNN, "I have not been commenting on Mr. Trump, and I
will continue not to comment on Mr. Trump."

There are several reasons Romney and other Republicans who resisted Trump may
have decided to bend the knee. For one, they are patriots and want to see the
45th president succeed for the good of the nation. But they also are ambitious
and may want to serve in the administration, or at least see no upside to
antagonizing a powerful enemy in the Oval Office.

"The GOP is folding like cheap tents to Trump's authoritarian nature/nationalist
message," Matthew Dowd, formerly a top strategist on President George W. Bush's
campaigns and now an ABC News analyst, tweeted Wednesday morning.

In a blistering speech in March, Romney called Trump a "con man," a "fake" and a
"phony" who would lead the country to recession and peril. "He has neither the
temperament nor the judgment to be president, and his personal qualities would
mean that America would cease to be a shining city on a hill," Romney said.

But late Tuesday, after his dinner with Trump, Romney delivered a 332-word
statement to the media that tried to wash all of that away. He also sounded a
note of humility and subservience.

"By the way, it's not easy winning," he said. "I know that myself. He did
something I tried to do and was unsuccessful in. He won the general election and
he continues with a message of inclusion and bringing people together, and his
vision is something which obviously connected with the American people in a very
powerful way."

This may not have been the public apology that Trump's ardent loyalists have
demanded, but Romney's groveling no doubt pleased the president-elect.

In another tweet Wednesday, Dowd wrote, "The degree of difficulty in Romney's
dive last night was greater than a reverse 4Â½ somersault in tuck position.
Stunning flipflop."

Romney is a finalist to serve as Trump's secretary of state. People familiar
with Romney's thinking say he is eager to return to public service and feels a
sense of patriotic duty to help the new president. Since ending his 2012
campaign, Romney has become increasingly animated by world affairs and spent
considerable time reimagining the United States' place in the world after the
Obama years. So he sees serving as the nation's top diplomat to be a natural
assignment.

Ross Douthat, a conservative columnist, wrote recently in the New York Times
about the dilemma Republicans who opposed Trump face during this transition
phase. "If they fear how Trump might govern, can they in good conscience work
for him?" Douthat wrote. "The answer, for now, is that they can and should - and
indeed, precisely because they fear how Trump might govern, there is a moral
responsibility to serve."

At Tuesday's dinner, Romney and Trump were joined by Reince Priebus, the
Republican National Committee chairman and incoming White House chief of staff,
who is close to both men.

Priebus described the conversation as productive and relaxed, saying they talked
not only about foreign policy but also about sports, bonding over their shared
regard for the New England Patriots and star quarterback Tom Brady.

Asked Wednesday on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" whether Trump and Romney had reached a
personal comfort level, Priebus said: "Oh, I think so. I mean, I think it's
getting to that point."

He added: "Obviously there's a lot of respect, I think, for each other. And I
think the relationship has built over time. They've talked many times on the
phone."

As Trump has met with dozens of potential appointees and other political and
business leaders in recent weeks, his advisers have stressed their ideological
diversity and the fact that many did not support him or offered their support
only nominally.

Consider, for instance, South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley. She spoke out against
Trump during the primaries. After he won the Republican nomination, she
eventually supported him, but she did little to help him in the general
election. Yet after the election, she hit it off with Trump, and he was
impressed enough with her to nominate her to serve as his ambassador to the
United Nations.

"He's one of the most inherently curious people I've ever met in my life," Vice
President-elect Mike Pence said Tuesday night on Fox News. "To be in these
meetings - we've had this galaxy of extraordinary men and women from a broad
range of backgrounds, you know, many Republicans, even some Democrats who have
come in and sat down."

philip.rucker@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             879 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Advocates expect epic fight for voter rights under Trump

BYLINE: Vanessa Williams;Katie Zezima

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A05

LENGTH: 1396 words


They fear administration will back  steps to limit   voting by certain groups

Voting   rights advocates are furious at President-elect Donald Trump's baseless
claims of widespread voter fraud and concerned that his administration will more
vigorously adopt measures that will make it harder for some groups of people to
vote.

Some state and local election officials in recent years have cited the potential
for voter fraud as the reason for enacting strict voter-ID laws, requiring
additional verification for people who want to register to vote and conducting
mass purges of voter rolls. Trump's promotion of the widely debunked notion of
rampant voter fraud and the presence in his inner circle of political leaders
who supported stricter voting laws send a troubling signal, say advocates who
have spent the past several years fighting what they say are efforts to
disenfranchise minorities and young, elderly and low-income voters.

"They don't want us to participate in this democracy," said Cristóbal J. Alex,
president of the Latino Victory Project. "We are gearing up for what will be the
biggest fight of our lifetime."

In the weeks leading up to the Nov. 8 election, Trump often claimed that the
election would be "rigged" and urged his supporters to monitor polling places in
"certain areas." Trump was elected president by racking up the most electoral
votes, but Democrat Hillary Clinton's lead in the popular vote has continued to
grow. That prompted the president-elect to fire off a series of tweets on Sunday
pushing a baseless allegation that Clinton won the popular vote because of
"millions of people who voted illegally." He specifically cited, without
providing evidence, irregularities that he said took place in California, New
Hampshire and Ohio.

Referring to that most recent comment, Sen. Bernie Sanders (Vt.), who during his
Democratic presidential campaign often accused Republicans of engaging in voter
suppression, said, "When you've got this delusional, crazy tweet from the
president-elect, you are sending a signal to the entire administration that
their goal is to go forward and suppress the vote."

Trump's transition office did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.
Trump spokesman Jason Miller declined to say at a Monday news briefing whether
the president-elect's Justice Department would ask state or federal law
enforcement to investigate allegations of illegal voting but said there is
"concern that so many have voted who were not legally supposed to."

Among those concerned about the Trump administration's approach is Chris Carson,
president of the League of Women Voters, who said last week in a statement on
the group's website, "This election was rigged." But she was referring to what
she and other advocates describe as "voter suppression."

In an interview this week, Carson cited Ohio, where, in violation of federal
law, officials dropped 400,000 voters from the rolls because they had not cast
ballots in recent elections. The league sued, and a federal court ordered the
voters reinstated a few weeks before the election. Carson said league members
scrambled to call as many voters as they could.

The league also sued to block the states of Kansas, Alabama and Georgia from
requiring people to show proof of citizenship to register to vote. "We're not
going to sit here and accept ... that we can just willy-nilly restrict the right
of eligible citizens to vote," she said.

Many of the laws that advocates have fought were put in place after the Supreme
Court's 2013 decision striking down a section of the 1965 Voting Rights Act that
required states with a history of discrimination against minority voters to seek
the Justice Department's approval before making changes in voting laws and
procedures. A law in North Carolina that required voters to show a specific type
of ID, cut out a week of early voting and called for other restrictions was
struck down by a federal court in July, which described it as "the most
restrictive voting law North Carolina has seen since the era of Jim Crow."

Kristen Clarke, president and executive director of the Lawyers' Committee for
Civil Rights Under Law, said the group's Election Protection coalition was
contacted by 117,000 voters and would-be voters who had problems during the
election cycle. "We did not receive any complaints of voter fraud, but we
received plenty of complaints of elections officials requiring identification
where there was no such requirement in place, of polling machines
malfunctioning, of individuals brandishing weapons at polling sites, of students
being told they were not eligible to vote," she said.

"To suggest that vote fraud is rampant across our country invites states to put
in place laws making voting more difficult, and that is incredibly
anti-democratic," she said.

Wendy Weiser, director of the Democracy Program at the Brennan Center for
Justice at the New York University School of Law, said the Trump administration
could change the voting landscape in a few ways. They include not filing
lawsuits against states in which voter suppression is alleged, pressing for more
aggressive purges of voter rolls or trying to push legislation through Congress,
Weiser said.

The president-elect's statements and some appointments and Cabinet nominations
that he has made have been of particular concern to groups that fear that a
Trump administration could move to suppress voting among black, Hispanic,
elderly, young and rural voters. They are worried about Trump's nomination of
Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) to be attorney general and his appointment of Kansas
Secretary of State Kris Kobach, an anti-illegal-immigration hard-liner, to his
transition team. Kobach also has pushed rules - which were challenged in court -
that would require proof of citizenship for those seeking to register to vote.
And they fear that a Trump appointee to the Supreme Court could undermine voting
rights.

Representatives for Sessions and Kobach declined to answer questions or did not
respond to emails from The Washington Post.

Sessions's nomination to the federal bench was rejected in 1986 in part because
of a voting rights case he handled while U.S. attorney in Alabama. Sessions's
office alleged then that three black civil rights activists in Perry County,
Ala., had tampered with absentee ballots. The activists argued that they changed
the ballots with the consent of elderly and illiterate voters and that they were
being targeted to suppress the black vote.

Kobach is one of the nation's foremost advocates for adding more requirements
for people to vote or register to vote. He is considered a possible candidate
for a Trump Cabinet post.

"Given the troubling rhetoric and records of the president-elect and his nominee
for attorney general, I am deeply concerned that the Trump administration will
use totally unsubstantiated claims of voter fraud of this nature to make it more
difficult for citizens to vote," said Rep. John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.), who
participated in the 1963 voter registration drive known as Freedom Day in Selma,
Ala.

But Francis De Luca, president of the Civitas Institute, has filed a federal
lawsuit in North Carolina asking that ballots cast by people who used same-day
registration not be counted until those people can be verified as eligible
voters.

De Luca waved off Trump's comments about voter fraud as "over the top," but he
said he does think that there is "a lot more voter fraud than is reported."

He said he supports strict voter-ID laws and other measures that protect the
electoral process. "You have to show ID to get a drink in a bar," he said.
"Underage drinking is illegal, and it's illegal to cast a ballot in someone
else's name."

However, even some Republicans are pushing back against Trump's claim that the
election was not conducted fairly. Thomas D. Rath, a Republican who has been
active in New Hampshire politics and elections for decades and served as the
state's attorney general, vigorously rejects Trump's contention that the results
in New Hampshire were fraudulent.

"This election was as fair and honest as anywhere you will find in the country,"
he said. "I don't think it's a partisan question. I think the idea of doing
elections and getting them right is really very important."

vanessa.williams@washpost.com

katie.zezima@washpost.com

Scott Clement and Michelle Ye Hee Lee contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             880 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Don't blame the Democratic coalition

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 95 words


Charles Krauthammer's assertion in his Nov. 25 op-ed, "For Democrats, the road
back," that Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton lost the election to
Republican Donald Trump because she relied on a coalition of "African Americans,
Hispanics, gays, unmarried women and the young" while Mr. Trump "managed to
read, then mobilize the white working class" defies logic and belies reality.
After all, Ms. Clinton won the popular vote by more than 2 million votes, while
Mr. Trump won the electoral college by slightly more than 100,000 votes.

Alfred Munzer , Washington

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             881 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                Suburban Edition

Pelosi topples challenger for House Democratic leader

BYLINE: Paul Kane;Ed O'Keefe

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 977 words


But tally suggests large

degree of discontent with her leadership

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi on Wednesday won an eighth term leading the
Democratic caucus, prevailing in a contest that became a vote of confidence in
her continued stewardship and an early proxy battle over the future of the
Democratic Party.

Pelosi (Calif.) easily toppled Rep. Tim Ryan (Ohio), a seven-term lawmaker who
launched an upstart bid to lead House Democrats two weeks ago in response to the
party's disappointing November election results and concerns that Democrats have
grown out of touch with working-class voters in key swing states such as
Pennsylvania, Michigan and Ohio.

But Pelosi's margin of victory, 134 to 63, signaled a large degree of discontent
with her leadership after 14 years atop the caucus and, more broadly, with the
Democratic policy agenda that many lawmakers say has grown stale. While she
cleared her self-declared margin of victory, a two-thirds majority, many
Democrats were stunned that almost a third of the caucus was willing to vote for
a backbench lawmaker with no major policy or political experience.

Many were left wondering whether a more seasoned Democrat could have toppled
Pelosi, with several privately suggesting these next two years would have to be
her last as leader. Ryan's 63 votes marked the largest bloc of opposition Pelosi
has faced since winning a deputy leadership position 15 years ago that set her
on a course to become the first female House speaker.

Although they came up well short, Ryan and his band of supporters declared a
symbolic victory in prompting Pelosi to propose elevating junior lawmakers and
lead a more inclusive leadership table. They also declared that the party's
economic agenda, at times neglected by their presidential nominee, Hillary
Clinton, would move to the front and center alongside the cultural issues that
dominated the 2016 campaign.

"We're going to win as Democrats if we have an economic message that resonates
in every part of the country," Ryan told reporters after his defeat.

"We are disappointed, because I like to win. ... But the party is better off,"
he added.

Afterward Pelosi publicly congratulated Ryan and acknowledged that he had run "a
very aggressive campaign." She told reporters that it forced her to work harder
than two previous challenges to lead the caucus.

"I quite frankly feel more liberated than I ever have," she said.

After gaining just six seats in the November election - despite Pelosi's
proclamation they would gain more than 20 - she was left more vulnerable than at
any moment in her leadership tenure, more so than in 2010 when she oversaw the
loss of 63 seats and the majority.

She began the campaign in a boastful mode, declaring that she had "more than
two-thirds" of the votes locked up, but she ended issuing a series of letters
that amounted to concessions to an anxious rank and file looking for new ideas
if not new leaders.

Pelosi tried to placate junior lawmakers by offering new or modified positions,
including the new position of "vice-ranking member" on the more than 20 standing
House committees and reserving it for lawmakers who have served four terms or
less. A policy leadership position would be divided into three co-chairmen and
reserved for those who have served five terms or less.

Rep. Beto O'Rourke (Tex.), 44, credited Ryan's challenge with forcing those
proposals. "That's partly a response to the competition in the caucus for votes,
and that's a healthy thing," said O'Rourke, who was first elected in 2012.

At 76, Pelosi is one of three septuagenarians leading the caucus, followed by
77-year-old Rep. Steny H. Hoyer (Md.), the minority whip; and 76-year-old Rep.
James E. Clyburn (S.C.), the assistant to the leader.

Hoyer and Clyburn were unchallenged Wednesday for reelection, and the caucus
elevated Rep. Joseph Crowley (N.Y.) to the No. 4 post of caucus chairman, and
Rep. Linda T. SÃ¡nchez (Calif.) became the first Latina in leadership as caucus
vice chairman.

Republicans, after years of vilifying Pelosi's West Coast liberalism, were
gleeful at the stasis among Democratic leaders. The National Republican
Congressional Committee immediately hung a "Congrats Nancy!" poster atop a "Hire
Pelosi" banner that had been affixed to Republican National Committee
headquarters this week.

Others remain upset at Pelosi's control of the House campaign arm, the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which has overseen a series of poor
election performances. "We should have been recruiting earlier, we should have
better targeting. I think our messaging was off," Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.)
said Tuesday in an interview.

Some of Pelosi's biggest detractors fear that the results will only empower the
more coastal liberal wings. "Nothing's going to change anytime soon. We're going
to be in the minority for the next 15 years," said Rep. Kurt Schrader (Ore.),
co-chairman of the Blue Dog Coalition, a centrist group. He added that Democrats
need to develop "a farm team that's not just the socialist side of our party."

Some longtime critics supported her but in a fashion that suggested that she has
less leeway than in the past. "If I think changing engines is going to get us
there faster and more efficiently and effectively, I would do that. I've told
that to Nancy," said Rep. William J. Pascrell (N.J.), who on Wednesday helped
nominate Pelosi.

Pelosi's most loyal backers reminded detractors that House Democrats are now in
a comeback situation facing Donald Trump, who will employ an aggressive set of
media skills unlike any recent president.

"The role of leader is one of tactician, of negotiator, of knowing all the
rules, of having all the tools to stand up when necessary to Donald Trump," said
Rep. Jan Schakowsky (Ill.). "She's effectively done that and is ready for this
fight.

Mike DeBonis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             882 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                Regional Edition

Clinton, Perry survive the one that got away

BYLINE: Emily Heil

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 119 words


Looks like the mutual admiration between  Hillary Clinton  and pop star  Katy
Perry  is still "Roar"-ing along, well after Clinton lost the election that
brought the two together.

The former SecState surprised Perry onstage Tuesday at the UNICEF Snowflake Ball
in New York, presenting the singer with the humanitarian award she was set to
collect that evening. Clinton introduced Perry, who campaigned extensively for
Clinton's presidential bid, by praising her work and saying that her lyrics
"remind us when you get knocked down to get back up."

Perry teared up, according to news reports, and credited Clinton with inspiring
her to speak up. "Hillary lit that voice inside of me, and that light will never
go out!"

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             883 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Think tank casts doubts on Trump infrastructure plan

BYLINE: Ashley Halsey III

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 682 words


President-elect Donald Trump's ambitious plan to raise $1 trillion for
infrastructure is a boondoggle that would line the pockets of wealthy investors
while not meeting the need for infrastructure repair or improvement in much of
the country, according to an analysis released Thursday by a progressive think
tank.

Trump's plan "shovels money at wealthy investors instead of solving real
infrastructure challenges," according to a white paper from the Center for
American Progress.

The paper figures to be the first salvo in a lively debate if Trump follows
through on his promise to make refurbishing the nation's roads, bridges and
transit systems a centerpiece of his administration, coupling it with his vow to
put unemployed middle-class Americans back to work.

"It's really a huge failure because it just doesn't deliver on what the actual
needs are out there," said Kevin DeGood, the report's author. "These really
complicated deals for which contracts [with private investors] can be beneficial
only apply to one-half of 1 percent of the need that is out there."

Trump's transition team did not respond when forwarded a copy of DeGood's report
for comment.

DeGood is director of infrastructure policy at the center, which was founded and
led by John Podesta until he resigned to become chairman of Hillary Clinton's
presidential campaign.

The challenge is a simple one: Investors want a return on their money, and very
few transportation projects provide one. Tolls can be imposed on selected roads
and bridges, but the vast majority of them offer no opportunity to recoup
investment.

"That would be a very rude shock to a lot of people who voted for Donald Trump
if they suddenly found that the rural roads in Nebraska or Indiana - the
interstate highway, which they paid for and they're still paying gas taxes - now
they have to pay a toll on top of that?" said Rep. Peter A. DeFazio (Ore.), the
ranking Democrat on the House Transportation Committee. "They probably wouldn't
be happy."

The Congressional Budget Office said last year that just 26 private-investment
projects were completed or underway nationwide.

The Trump plan would give private investors an 82 percent tax credit to put
money into projects. Trump said his plan would lead to up to $1 trillion worth
of new projects, but simply lowering the cost of money with tax credits to
investors is unlikely to unleash a new round of big-ticket projects, because
states already have access to the municipal bond market.

According to Trump, his proposal would play a central role in funding $1
trillion in projects without draining taxpayer dollars lost by offering the tax
credit incentives. That's because, he said, the tax revenue would be recouped by
taxing the wages of people put to work on the projects and from taxes paid by
contractors hired to do the work.

DeGood's paper says: "The Trump plan calls for spending as much as $137 billion
from the federal treasury in the form of tax credits to wealthy Wall Street
investors. This massive subsidy would lower the cost of equity capital to a
level roughly equivalent to municipal bonds."

In an interview as his analysis was released, DeGood said the lack of sufficient
tax dollars, not a need for financing, was the cause of the failure to address
infrastructure needs.

"If just having access to debt at 3 percent were all that project sponsors
needed to kick off big projects, then that would have happened already," he
said. "We're in the lowest cost financing universe that we've been in since
World War II, and yet we don't see explosive growth in construction activity
because it's a lack of tax revenue, not a lack of access to debt."

The second part of the Trump plan involves repatriation, a much-talked about
idea to lure home $2.5 trillion in cash held overseas by U.S. corporations.
Trump has proposed reducing the rate companies would pay to bring the money home
to 10 percent from 35 percent. Those companies then could invest slightly more
money in infrastructure projects, gain the 82 percent tax credit and effectively
erase that 10 percent tax.

ashley.halsey@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             884 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                Regional Edition

The 2020 dream team

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 177 words


Although Chris Cillizza was correct in his Nov. 28 Monday Fix column, "Early
leads in 2020 race, but no clear Democratic heir " [news], in which he listed
possible Democratic presidential contenders for 2020, he was not looking outside
the box of the Beltway - other than citing one relatively unknown governor.

If the 2016 election has taught us anything, it is that America has become a
cult of celebrity. Democrats have to understand this. If President-elect Donald
Trump runs for reelection in 2020, the Democrats had better be willing to fight
fire with fire.

I suggest Mark Cuban, a billionaire from TV's "Shark Tank," who was an outspoken
critic of Mr.Trump in this election. Mr. Cuban has money and similar celebrity
status but none of the temperamental or sexual baggage that could be used again
against Mr. Trump in 2020. Throw in as a running mate Sen. Elizabeth Warren
(D-Mass.) or one of the other female senators Mr. Cillizza mentioned, and you
would have the dream ticket to ensure Mr. Trump is a one-term president.

Don Gidley , Harpers Ferry, W.Va.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             885 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Congo is committed to democracy

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. A22

LENGTH: 222 words


The Nov. 23 editorial "Before Mr. Obama leaves office" wrongly interpreted steps
being taken in Congo to prepare for free and fair elections and to advance
democracy.

On Oct. 18, representatives of Congo's presidential majority, political
opposition and civil society concluded a national dialogue with an agreement on
steps toward peaceful, credible and transparent elections. Additional opposition
party leaders have added their signatures to the agreement. President Joseph
Kabila subsequently appointed Samy Badibanga Ntita, chairman of a parliamentary
group of the opposition Union for Democracy and Social Progress and its allies,
as prime minister, which U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon welcomed as the
first of several steps in the implementation of the agreement that will
culminate in a presidential election in the coming months.

Mr. Kabila intends to respect the constitution throughout the electoral process,
including once his term ends, as he looks to strengthen our democracy and
protect the nation from descending into another era of chaos. Many challenges
remain as we advance toward elections, but Congo is committed to a democratic
transfer of power and welcomes the international community's support in this
endeavor.

FranÃ§ois Nkuna Balumuene , Washington

The writer is Congo's ambassador to the United States.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             886 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Clinton, Trump aides pull no punches as bad blood lingers In face-to-face
postmortem, rival camps pull no punches

BYLINE: Karen Tumulty;Philip Rucker

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1374 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, MASS.


CAMBRIDGE, Mass. - The raw, lingering emotion of the 2016 presidential campaign
erupted into a shouting match here Thursday as top strategists of Hillary
Clinton's campaign accused their Republican counterparts of fueling and
legitimizing racism to elect Donald Trump.

The extraordinary exchange came at a postmortem session sponsored by Harvard
University's Kennedy School of Government, where top operatives from both
campaigns sat across a conference table from each other.

As Trump's team basked in the glow of its victory and singled out for praise its
campaign's chief executive, Stephen K. Bannon, who was absent, the row of
grim-faced Clinton aides who sat opposite them bristled.

Clinton communications director Jennifer Palmieri condemned Bannon, who
previously ran Breitbart, a news site popular with the alt-right, a small
movement known for espousing racist views.

"If providing a platform for white supremacists makes me a brilliant tactician,
I am proud to have lost," she said. "I would rather lose than win the way you
guys did."

Kellyanne Conway, Trump's campaign manager, fumed: "Do you think I ran a
campaign where white supremacists had a platform?"

"You did, Kellyanne. You did," interjected Palmieri, who choked up at various
points of the session.

"Do you think you could have just had a decent message for white, working-class
voters?" Conway asked. "How about, it's Hillary Clinton, she doesn't connect
with people? How about, they have nothing in common with her? How about, she
doesn't have an economic message?"

Joel Benenson, Clinton's chief strategist, piled on: "There were dog whistles
sent out to people. ... Look at your rallies. He delivered it."

At which point, Conway accused Clinton's team of being sore losers. "Guys, I can
tell you are angry, but wow," she said. "Hashtag he's your president. How's
that? Will you ever accept the election results? Will you tell your protesters
that he's their president, too?"

The session was part of a two-day forum that the school's Institute of Politics
has sponsored in the wake of every presidential election since 1972. It gathers
operatives from nearly all of the primary and general election campaigns, as
well as a large contingent of journalists, with the stated goal of beginning to
compile a historical record.

Generally, the quadrennial gatherings are frank but civil ones, in which
political operatives at the top of their game accord each other a measure of
professional respect.

This year, in the wake of a brutal campaign with a surprise outcome, it was
clear that the wounds have not yet begun to heal. The animosity of the campaign
aides mirrors the broader feelings of millions of voters on both sides.

Campaign officials lashed out at each other, and also against the media - which
neither side believed had treated it fairly.

Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook also acknowledged that her operation had
made a number of mistakes and miscalculations, while being buffeted by what he
repeatedly described as a "head wind" of being an establishment candidate in a
season where voters were eager for change.

He noted, for example, that younger voters, perhaps assuming that Clinton was
going to win, migrated to third-party candidates in the final days of the race.

Where the campaign needed to win upward of 60 percent of young voters, it was
able to garner something "in the high 50s at the end of the day," Mook said.
"That's why we lost."

He and others also faulted FBI Director James B. Comey for deciding in the
waning days of the campaign to revive the controversy over Clinton's use of a
private email server.

Trump officials said Clinton's problems went beyond tactics to her weaknesses as
a candidate and the deficits of a message that consisted largely of trying to
make Trump unacceptable.

David Bossie, Trump's deputy campaign manager, taunted Mook: "You call it 'head
winds,' I call it self-inflicted wounds."

Conway added, "There's a difference for voters between what offends you and what
affects you," arguing that Trump was speaking more directly to people's
anxieties and needs.

Strategists for Sen. Bernie Sanders (Vt.), who waged a strong challenge against
Clinton for the Democratic nomination, agreed. "There was a large part of the
Democratic primary electorate who had concerns about the secretary's veracity
and forthrightness," said Jeff Weaver, Sanders's campaign manager.

Clinton's campaign aides insisted, again and again, that their candidate had
been held to a different standard than the other contenders - as evidenced by
the controversy over her use of a private email server while secretary of state.

Palmieri said that many political journalists had a personal dislike for the
Democratic nominee and predicted that the email issue will go down in history as
"the most grossly overrated, over-covered and most destructive story in all of
presidential politics."

"If I made one mistake, it was legitimizing the way the press covered this story
line," Palmieri said.

Mook added that Trump deftly used his rally speeches to "switch up the news
cycle."

"The media by and large was not covering what Hillary Clinton was choosing to
say," Mook said. "They were treating her like the likely winner, and they were
constantly trying to unearth secrets and expose."

For instance, Mook posited that the media did not scrutinize Trump's refusal to
release his tax returns as intensively as the issue of Clinton's private email
server.

Conway retorted: "Oh, my God, that question was vomited to me every day on TV."

The strangest criticism of the media, however, was by Trump's former campaign
manager, Corey Lewandowski.

His complaint: Journalists accurately reported what Trump said.

"This is the problem with the media. You guys took everything that Donald Trump
said so literally," Lewandowski said. "The American people didn't. They
understood it. They understood that sometimes - when you have a conversation
with people, whether it's around the dinner table or at a bar - you're going to
say things, and sometimes you don't have all the facts to back it up."

At a dinner the previous evening, CNN chief executive Jeff Zucker was heckled
during a panel discussion about the media by operatives from several losing
Republican campaigns, who accused the network of showering Trump with free
publicity.

To win the GOP nomination, Trump vanquished a highly credentialed field of 16
other Republicans, some of whom were backed up by tens of millions of dollars in
outside spending. What his opponents failed to recognize, until it was too late,
was that 2016 would be a year unlike any other, in which the standard rules
would not apply.

"The uniqueness of this cycle made it such that some of those traditional kind
of avenues became less effective," said Danny Diaz, who managed the campaign of
the presumed early front-runner, former Florida governor Jeb Bush.

"Money and mechanics matter, but passion about a candidate matters more," added
Mike DuHaime, a strategist for New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R), another
establishment figure in the race.

Barry Bennett, the campaign manager for retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, said of
voters: "What they wanted more than anything else was strength, and Donald Trump
was supplying it every day."

Clinton consultant Mandy Grunwald had a darker interpretation, which she
expressed in an icy backhanded compliment to the Trump team on Thursday: "I
don't think you give yourself enough credit for the negative campaign you ran."

She noted that the murky corners of the Internet were rife with false stories
that Clinton was in dire health, and on the verge of going to prison. "I hear
this heroic story of him connecting with voters," Grunwald said. "But there was
a very impressive gassing of her."

Benenson, meanwhile, served notice that the election may be over but that the
battles it spawned are not.

"You guys won, that's clear," Benenson said. "But let's be honest. Don't act as
if you have a popular mandate for your message. The fact of the matter is that
more Americans voted for Hillary Clinton than for Donald Trump."

At which point Conway turned to her side and said: "Hey, guys, we won. You don't
have to respond. He was the better candidate. That's why he won."

karen.tumulty@washpost.com

philip.rucker@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             887 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                Regional Edition

Former trauma patient pushes for gun-violence studies

BYLINE: Justin George

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 1177 words


Joseph Sakran remembers the day in 1994 when an errant bullet changed the
trajectory of his life.

Then a senior at Lake Braddock Secondary School in Burke, Va., he remembers the
flash from the gun fired during a fight after a football game, people dispersing
and blood gushing over his clothes. He had been shot in the throat.

Over the next six months, Sakran had a tracheotomy and multiple operations to
help him breathe and speak. The 17-year-old also resolved to become a doctor. He
believed that his destiny was "to give others that second chance I've been
given."

Now 39 and a trauma surgeon at Johns Hopkins Hospital, Sakran is on the
forefront of a movement among medical professionals growing more vocal about a
surge in gun violence in Baltimore, a city where more than 240 people have been
fatally shot this year, as well as across the country. His medical advocacy
group is joining forces with another physicians organization, and he hopes to
launch more in-depth research into shootings and victim outcomes.

Sakran says he is motivated by his experience as a survivor and his experience
performing emergency surgery on gunshot victims. He said he recalls the looks on
his parents' faces two decades ago when talking to the parents of shooting
victims he is trying to save.

"Their faces are chiseled in my mind," he said. "I imagine what they had been
going through - and not always does someone survive."

In Baltimore, one out of three people shot last year died, making the city one
of the most lethal of America's largest cities, according to a year-long
Baltimore Sun investigation. The odds for gunshot victims worsened last year in
at least 10 of those cities, including Baltimore, Chicago and Milwaukee, the Sun
found.

Although medical advances and practices have dramatically improved the survival
rate of most trauma patients, studies by hospitals including Johns Hopkins have
shown that the chances of gunshot victims surviving have decreased. At the same
time, a number of deadly trends have taken root, including as criminals using
higher-caliber guns with large-capacity magazines, leaving multiple-gunshot
victims to bleed out more quickly.

Political impasses over universal background checks for gun purchasers and
increasing federal funding for research into gun violence was among the reasons
Sakran started the group Doctors for Hillary two years ago. The group supported
Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, who made gun control a central
tenet of her campaign. Sakran said his group includes a few hundred core members
and 65,000 followers on Facebook.

In the wake of Donald Trump's win over Clinton, Sakran plans to merge his group
with Doctors for America, a political advocacy group of health professionals
that pushed for health-care changes and has made increased federal funding for
gun violence research a top goal.

Sakran hopes to continue pushing for universal background checks, closing
loopholes that allow customers at gun shows to bypass background checks,
preventing "straw" purchasers from legally buying guns for people with criminal
records and greater restrictions on "military-style weapons."

"More than ever, it's going to be important for us to really take a concerted
effort to say that 'This is not a Democratic issue, not a Republican issue. This
is an American issue,'" he said.

Trump (R) has opposed limits on gun ownership, and any gun-control measure is
likely to meet stiff resistance in a Republican-controlled Congress. Trump has
said he would appoint Supreme Court justices who uphold the constitutional right
to bear arms and would seek to expand mental health treatment programs in the
wake of mass shootings by mentally ill people in recent years.

Alice Chen, the executive director of Doctors for America and an internal
medicine physician and assistant professor at George Washington University and
the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, said common ground can be found on
such issue as preventing suicides and child injuries by firearms.

"All of us have a responsibility to be more civically engaged," Chen said.
"Certainly, we have to think about what are the likeliest things that we can get
passed in the new political environment ... But the urgency to do something does
not change."

Sakran said seeking changes on a state-by-state basis may be another route for
doctors to pursue.

Although Maryland already has some of the strictest gun laws in the nation,
Baltimore Police Commissioner Kevin Davis plans to step up efforts to lobby
lawmakers in the General Assembly session that begins in January for mandatory
prison time for people arrested with illegal handguns and high-capacity gun
magazines. Other proposals legislators plan to push include bills to ban guns
from college campuses and prevent people on federal terrorist watch lists from
buying them.

S. Rob Todd, chief of general surgery at Ben Taub Hospital in Houston and a
member of Sakran's group, said surgeons need to continue to make the public and
politicians aware of the worsening conditions in which many gunshot victims
arrive at hospitals. Todd, who is also a professor at the Baylor College of
Medicine, said the percentage of gunshot victims dying in the emergency room has
increased significantly since 2000.

"At some point, we have to stop being quiet and we have to start speaking up,"
he said. "We can talk about the gravity of the situation. We can talk about what
we see."

Sakran said he also wants to study the degree to which gun violence has become
more intense nationally using data from medical examiners' records and the
National Trauma Data Bank.

He also wants to study Johns Hopkins patients who have been shot on more than
one occasion to determine the factors that put people at a greater risk of being
victimized.

Sakran has vivid memories of his own shooting. He recalls  turning his head
toward two people who were arguing when someone fired a .38-caliber gun into the
crowd of high-schoolers, striking him and another student, who also survived. He
remembers choking on his blood as paramedics tried to place him flat in a
medevac and a trauma surgeon taking charge amid the chaos and wheeling him into
an operating room.

Sakran's trachea was ruptured and his left carotid artery, which provides blood
flow to his brain, was severed. One of his vocal cords was paralyzed, as was a
phrenic nerve, which helps with speaking and breathing.

Sakran underwent multiple operations at Inova Fairfax Hospital, where he was
born and where he would do his residency years later.

In a permanent, slightly hoarse tone with a volume about half of what it should
be, Sakran speaks admiringly about the trauma surgeon and vascular surgeon who
saved his life and taught him as a young resident.

"I was really inspired to give others the opportunity I had been given," he
said.

The bullet that struck Sakran was surgically removed weeks later. He keeps it in
a container on his dresser and takes it out to examine every once in a while as
a reminder of his near-fatal shooting and his mission to save others.

- Baltimore Sun

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             888 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                Regional Edition

In Soviet-style address, Putin hails 'one Russia'

BYLINE: David Filipov;Andrew Roth

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW


Annual speech calling for unity, mending U.S. ties is panned as banal

MOSCOW - Russian President Vladimir Putin called for better ties with the United
States in his annual address Thursday, while brushing away allegations of
meddling in the U.S. presidential campaign and Washington's concerns about
Kremlin interference in other countries.

But the moment that went viral on Russian websites was an image of the national
broadcast that showed his prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, eyes turned down,
appearing to doze off.

Whether the premier was napping or just checking his notes, the image was seen
by many as an appropriate metaphor for the 70-minute, nationally televised
speech.

In a businesslike tone that recalled a Soviet Communist Party Central Committee
meeting, Putin ticked off various economic issues and raised his emotional level
- and his own voice - only when he brought up the Olympics doping scandal and
"external pressure" on Russia.

"They've used everything against us," Putin said. "Myths about Russian
aggression, about propaganda, interference in other countries' elections,
besmirching our athletes, including Paralympic athletes."

"Unlike other foreign colleagues, who see Russia as an enemy, we are not looking
for and never looked for enemies," Putin added.

He repeated his desire to improve Russia's relationship with Washington -
another clear signal of Moscow's hopes to build ties with President-elect Donald
Trump - amid Western outcry over Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014, its
proxy war in eastern Ukraine, and its air campaign in support of Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad.

"We are ready for cooperation with the new administration," Putin said. "I am
counting on joint efforts with the United States in the fight against real, not
imagined, threats of international terrorism."

Putin has on several occasions spoken of the need to mend U.S.-Russian ties
since the election of Trump. Trump, for his part, has spoken about the need to
cooperate with Russia.

For most of the address in the opulent St. George's Hall of the Kremlin, Putin
listed economic data and plans to improve Russia's infrastructure. Government
officials and members of parliament applauded mildly here and there.

"The only emotional parts of the speech concerned international politics;
everything else was dreary, full of banalities,"  Stanislav Belkovsky, a liberal
Russian political analyst, said on the independent television station TV Rain.

Later, he added: "It's clear that Putin's address to the Federal Assembly is
nothing more than a ritual at this point. He doesn't treat the content of his
speech seriously."

An example: Putin has slowly worn away democratic institutions such as
opposition parties and checks and balances against his own power, but he praised
his administration's course of "developing democratic institutions and
increasing competition."

Opposition parties have been pushed to the sidelines in Russia, and October
parliamentary elections returned a supermajority for Putin's United Russia
Party.

"We've proven that we live in a healthy society that is sure of its just
requirements, where immunity from populism and demagoguery is being
strengthened, and where the meaning of mutual support, consolidation and unity
is valued," Putin said.

The Russian leader said unity had helped stave off "coups and in the end,
anarchy" - a veiled reference to the "color" revolutions of other post-Soviet
states such as Ukraine, where Russia is fighting a proxy war in the east after
annexing the Crimean Peninsula.

Putin also made a reference to the refugee crisis in Europe and the chaotic
election campaign in the United States.

"It's troubling that in the world, even in the seemingly most well-off countries
and stable regions, there are more schisms and national, religious, political
and social crises," the Russian leader said.

"We know well the consequences of such so-called great upheavals," Putin said,
noting the 100th anniversary of the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution next year.

Pro-establishment politicians and observers praised the speech and Putin's calls
for consolidation.

"Liberals consider patriots idiots, patriots consider liberals traitors,"
tweeted Sergei Markov, a pro-Kremlin political analyst. "Putin called on them to
stop quarreling and create a normal society."

Others saw it a different way.

"This address is so boring it's funny," tweeted Belkovsky.

Much of Putin's speech touched on specifics of the economy, mired in a two-year
slowdown, and he called for tax law changes, investment in health care and
education, and improvements in technology.

"Let us remember that we are a united people, we are one people, we have one
Russia," he said.

david.filipov@washpost.com

andrew.roth@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             889 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                Suburban Edition

Trump supporters aggressively challenge Stein recount efforts in 3 states

BYLINE: Jerry Markon;Sean Sullivan

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 653 words


Supporters of President-elect Donald Trump are moving aggressively to challenge
Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein's push for a recount in three
states, filing legal challenges and criticizing the effort as quixotic and
ill-conceived.

Trump and his backers have filed challenges the past two days in Michigan,
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, which were critical to Trump's surprise victory last
month because they punctured the "blue wall" of states expected to carry
Democrat Hillary Clinton to victory. Trump narrowly won the trio of states.

Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette (R) on Friday tweeted that Stein's
request was "an expensive &a risky threat" as he announced he had filed an
emergency motion with the Michigan Supreme Court to stop it.

Stein, who has raised millions of dollars from supporters to help pay for the
costly recount efforts, blasted back in a statement calling Schuette's action "a
politically motivated attempt by Bill Schuette to side with Donald Trump in
opposition to a fair and accountable voting system.'' She added that "citizens
in Michigan and across the country of every political party have expressed their
concerns around our voting system and deserve to have their votes counted.''

Stein has raised concerns about possible hacking or other anomalies in the vote
in the three states but has presented no evidence of malfeasance. Election
officials in all three states have expressed confidence in their results, and
voting rights experts have said the effort is highly unlikely to overturn the
results that sent Trump to the White House.

Clinton's campaign has joined Stein's recount effort, though it has said it does
not expect the outcome of the election to change. The Clinton campaign had no
comment on Friday.

In Wisconsin, where Trump defeated Clinton by one percentage point, a recount is
underway. But Great America PAC and Stop Hillary PAC, both pro-Trump groups,
said Friday that they had filed a legal challenge a day earlier in federal court
in conjunction with a Wisconsin voter to stop the new count. Stein's team said
Friday that it will fight the challenge.

"Citizens in Wisconsin and across the country have made it clear that they want
a recount and deserve to see this process through to ensure integrity in the
vote," Stein's attorney Matthew D. Brinckerhoff said in a statement.

In Pennsylvania, where Stein has acknowledged the path to forcing a recount is
more difficult but has initiated an effort to do so nonetheless, attorneys for
Trump filed an objection to Stein's request in state court on Thursday.

"Even with the heroic efforts by state and local elections officials involved in
the recounts, as well as expeditious review by this Court, Stein's proposed
process will last weeks, perhaps even months. Either way, her request puts
Pennsylvania at grave risk of having not certified its Presidential electors by
December 13, the deadline for doing so," the filing says.

On Friday, the focus of the escalating battle was in Michigan, as the Board of
State Canvassers deadlocked 2 to 2 over an objection that attorneys for Trump
had filed Thursday against Stein's recount request. Trump had argued that Stein
cannot, as the state's fourth-place finisher, claim that she is "aggrieved" by
the way the vote unfolded and that there is not enough time to complete the
recount by the Dec. 13 deadline to certify Michigan's election results.

Because of the deadlock, the office of Michigan Secretary of State Ruth Johnson
(R) said in a tweet that "the recount is expected to commence early next week,
barring court action."

Schuette then filed his emergency motion with the Michigan Supreme Court. It is
unclear whether a hearing has been set. The earliest that a Michigan recount
could start would be next week.

jerry.markon@washpost.com

sean.sullivan@washpost.com

Alice Crites contributed to this report.

ï...OE For photos and a video, go to wapo.st/transition1203

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             890 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                Regional Edition

At 'Jackie' screening, star Natalie Portman hopes for a future 'first spouse'

BYLINE: Emily Heil

SECTION: STYLE; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 475 words


Who will dress Melania Trump? Will Michelle Obama ever run for office?

Although our modern fascination with first ladies plays out on Instagram and
Pinterest, it is anything but of-the-moment - and Washington got a reminder of
the long-standing nature of the obsession with a Thursday night screening of
"Jackie," the Oscar-buzzed-about movie starring Natalie Portman in the titular
role.

Before the movie rolled, with an audience that included members of Congress,
media types like Huffington Post's Howard Fineman, and assorted VIPs (oh, look,
it's Eric Holder and his wife, Sharon Malone), Portman and the movie's creators
took to the red carpet, like a panel of cable commentators, to hold forth on the
role of FLOTUS.

Portman, whose portrayal of the glamorous wife of John F. Kennedy is drawing
raves, noted that her character helped create today's expectations for the gig.

"Jackie was one of the first, along with Eleanor Roosevelt, to have a real
agenda," Portman said, referring to Jackie Kennedy's work on historical
preservation and the arts.

"Since then, first ladies, and hopefully in the future, first spouses, will be
this sort of extra gift that the country gets when they get their president -
it's not an elected person, it's not an official role ... but they're still
helping our country become a better place," Portman said.

And director Pablo LarraÃ­n saw in Mrs. Kennedy a shrewdness that would befit
any wife of a modern-day president. "She had a political sense that, believe me,
the political leaders of this world would love to have one third of that,"
LarraÃ­n said.

So what message can today's audience glean from the on-screen depiction of
Jackie Kennedy's excruciating hours and days following her husband's
assassination?

"It sends a message that the way our public officials and their families conduct
themselves really matters," says writer Noah Oppenheim, who clearly thinks
that's no small thing. Jackie, he said, "belongs in the pantheon of American
heroes for the way she conducted herself."

Though they were located somewhere between the Capitol dome and the White House
(and a stone's throw from the Trump hotel), the movie folks steered clear of
dishing directly on contemporary politics. Portman had campaigned for Democratic
presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and called a potential Donald Trump
presidency "catastrophic."

But asked on the red carpet what she hoped her pal and fellow Harvard alum Jared
Kushner would advise his father-in-law, she gave a canned non-answer that might
have just make Jackie Kennedy proud: "I hope for the best for our country, as
all of us do."

And later, when an audience member queried during a post-screening
question-and-answer session about what advice she has for Melania Trump, she was
just a little flip. "I don't know. ... Don't ride in convertibles."

emily.heil@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             891 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Here's how Comstock beat Bennett in purple Northern Virginia

BYLINE: Stephen J. Farnsworth;Stephen Hanna

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 704 words


Rep. Barbara Comstock, reelected on Nov. 8 in the battleground communities of
the District's western Virginia suburbs, really knows the 10th Congressional
District.

With roughly 70 percent of the district's voters residing in Fairfax and Loudoun
counties, the first-term incumbent had to walk a careful line during this year
of Donald Trump. For most of the campaign, Comstock neither broke with the
Republican nominee nor sang his praises, hoping to avoid losing the support of
both potential swing voters and Trump loyalists.

Without considerable approval among those in each group, Comstock might not have
won the district, which four years ago had split 50 percent for Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney and 49 percent for President Obama. With its
decidedly purple hue, both Democrats and Republicans recognized Virginia's 10th
as an unusually vulnerable seat in the nation's highly gerrymandered Congress,
where nearly every district was drawn to be either safely Democratic or safely
Republican.

As a result, more than $11.6 million in campaign cash poured into the 10th
District, leading to nasty advertising wars and very aggressive voter outreach
efforts from McLean to the West Virginia border.

But when a recording emerged of Trump bragging about groping women, the
Republican nominee went from being a drag to being an anchor, threatening to
sink Comstock's reelection. Wisely, she cut Trump loose, saying that she could
not support him and saying that she preferred Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, the
Republican vice-presidential nominee, to Trump.

As a result, there was more than a little tension between Trump Republicans and
Comstock Republicans working within the district at political events during the
campaign's final weeks.

In the end, Comstock demonstrated that she was far more popular in the district
than Trump was. Virginia's 10th Congressional District has 200 precincts, and
Comstock received more votes than Trump in every single one of them.

More often than not, Comstock's advantage over Trump was substantial. Trump came
within  five percentage points of Comstock in only eight of those 200 precincts,
and all of those eight lie in the deep-red areas of rural Frederick and Clarke
counties. In 110 of those 200 precincts, Comstock ran ahead of Trump by 10
percentage points or more.

Nowhere was this disparity more evident than in wealthy inside-the-Beltway
precincts included in the 10th District. In Chain Bridge and Langley, for
example, Comstock earned the support of 53 percent and 56 percent of the votes,
respectively. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton won these same
Fairfax County precincts by 16-point margins.

The Rolling Ridge precinct of Loudoun County, on the other hand, was LuAnn
Bennett territory. The Democratic challenger received more than 64 percent of
the vote there, making it one of her best precincts. Comstock's total there was
slightly less than 35 percent, but that was far better than Trump's 27 percent
share of the vote in Rolling Ridge.

Trump - who lost the 10th District overall - did very well in the Russell
precinct in Clarke County, where he received two-thirds of the vote. But here,
too, Comstock did better: She received 72 percent of the vote in the precinct,
the largest one in Clarke County, just west of Loudoun.

While Trump's economic-reform message resonated with many Virginians, the theme
was most effective in more financially troubled parts of the state, like
Southside  and southwest Virginia. Simply put, a Republican presidential
candidate saying that the jobs of many federal workers and government
contractors might be in jeopardy is not an asset for a Republican congressional
incumbent facing a strong challenger in Northern Virginia.

As the electoral college demonstrates, Trump's message hit in enough places in
the nation overall to make him the winner. But the controversial candidate was a
much tougher sell in Virginia's 10th District.

Comstock acted accordingly and won a second term.

Stephen J. Farnsworth is a professor of political science at the University of
Mary Washington, where he directs the Center for Leadership and Media Studies.
Stephen Hanna is a professor of geography at the University of Mary Washington.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             892 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Emerging Cabinet shifts toward GOP orthodoxy

BYLINE: John Wagner;Sean Sullivan

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1860 words


Just two weeks ago, President-elect Donald Trump appeared poised to assemble a
Cabinet as unconventional as he is, drawing heavily from a band of quirky
loyalists that included several from the fringes of the Republican Party.

But as he moves rapidly toward assembling his roster of top advisers, Trump
instead is pulling together a more orthodox GOP team than many expected,
including a defense secretary nominee, retired Marine Gen. James Mattis, who has
received solid marks from the party establishment ahead of his formal unveiling
Monday.

The emerging Cabinet has gone a long way toward mollifying some of Trump's
Republican critics, and several of the picks - including the wife of the Senate
majority leader as transportation secretary - are tailor-made to encourage
cooperation between the administration and GOP leaders on Capitol Hill. The
incoming team is preparing not only to implement longtime Republicans goals -
such as repealing the Affordable Care Act and cutting taxes - but also to push
for Trump's iconoclastic and controversial campaign promises on issues such as a
border wall and trade.

But the group and the president-elect are also fraught with conflicting views
over key issues including Iran policy, Medicare and immigration, raising the
risk of infighting and fractiousness within the administration and with
Congress.

Several of Trump's early personnel picks were "more directly in your face, while
others that have come forward since then are decidedly less so," said Thomas E.
Mann, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution think tank in Washington. "At
this point, I would say the Republican establishment that was so attacked by
Trump during the campaign is doing pretty well in shaping his administration."

Trump, who cast himself as a hard-edged populist during the campaign, is also
moving faster in the pace of announcing his picks, compared with recent
predecessors.

The biggest test of Trump's interest in broadening his inner circle still looms,
with his choice of a secretary of state, one of the most important posts in any
administration. Aides have publicly identified four finalists for the job,
including 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney.

If Trump gives the nod to Romney, long one of his fiercest Republican critics,
it would send a reassuring signal to the party's moderate wing and to the
nation's foreign policy establishment - a need seen as all the more urgent after
Trump caused a diplomatic uproar when he broke decades of precedent Friday by
speaking directly with the president of Taiwan.

But the prospect of picking Romney - who called Trump a "con man" and a "phony"
during the campaign - has already sparked strong objections from some of Trump's
die-hard supporters.

Richard Viguerie, a longtime conservative activist, said that he, like many
others, considers a potential Romney appointment a mistake but can understand
Trump's thinking.

"He knows he cannot fight two wars at the same time," Viguerie said. "He can't
fight the Democrats and the establishment Republicans. They're still a big
presence in Congress, and he probably wants to make nice with them."

Several of Trump's more recent choices appear to have the imprint of Mike Pence,
the vice president-elect. The Indiana governor and former House member is
well-regarded by the party's conservative wing but has also served as a bridge
to the party establishment.

Trump turned to some of his staunchest and most controversial allies for his
earliest White House picks, including former campaign chief executive Stephen K.
Bannon, the former Breitbart News executive, as his senior counselor. Retired
Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, who during the campaign led "lock her up" chants
directed at Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, was named national security
adviser.

Trump's choice of Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) as attorney general also seemed in
no small part a reward for his loyalty during the tumultuous campaign.

Since then, however, Trump has shown a willingness to put rivals and others
outside his orbit in key slots. South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley (R), who
endorsed two of Trump's rivals at various points in the Republican primaries,
was named as his choice to become the ambassador to the United Nations.

And on Friday, Trump met in New York with Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), who left
the door open to joining the Republican administration. Another Democrat, Sen.
Joe Manchin III (D-W.Va.) is also being eyed by the Trump team for a possible
job.

Other recent picks by Trump may be unconventional in some respects - they would
be hard to imagine in the Cabinet of Jeb Bush or John Kasich, two of his primary
rivals - but bring familiar credentials to the posts they have been asked to
fill.

For Treasury secretary, Trump tapped Steven Mnuchin, a loyalist who served as
finance chairman of his campaign. Mnuchin comes from a conventional place for
recent Treasury secretaries of both parties: He spent 17 years at the Wall
Street firm Goldman Sachs.

Likewise, Trump rewarded campaign booster Wilbur Ross with his nod to be
commerce secretary. Like many others before him, Ross is a successful
businessman; in his case, though, he is known for his investments in distressed
industries.

For transportation secretary, Trump tapped someone as establishment as they come
in Washington: Elaine Chao, who served as labor secretary under President George
W. Bush and held other posts in previous Republican administrations. She also
happens to be the wife of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), a
relationship that certainly cannot hurt Trump's promised effort to push a $1
trillion infrastructure plan through Congress early in his tenure.

Many of Trump's choices will arrive with a history of toiling toward long-held
Republican objectives that Trump embraced during his campaign.

Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.), whom Trump reached outside of his immediate orbit to tap
as health and human services secretary, is among the leading critics of the
Affordable Care Act, the signature achievement of President Obama that
Republicans have been seeking to dismantle since its enactment in 2010.

Betsy DeVos, the Michigan billionaire and conservative activist who Trump
nominated for education secretary, has spent years pushing to expand voucher
programs in several states that give families taxpayer dollars to pay for
private and religious schools - objectives simpatico with Trump's call on the
campaign trail to expand school choice.

And Sessions has established himself as one of Capitol Hill's harshest critics
of illegal immigration, a credential that should bolster the work of a candidate
who advocated deporting millions of undocumented workers and building an
extensive wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.

Rep. Chris Collins (R-N.Y.), an early Trump supporter who is serving as the
transition team's liaison to Congress, said the Cabinet that Trump is building
"absolutely" signals that the president-elect will try to move swiftly on the
agenda that he talked about on the campaign trail.

"The people being picked to run the departments with jurisdiction over those
issues, I think, are in 90-plus percent lockstep with his positions," Collins
said.

Still, taken as a whole, Trump's emerging team is far more diverse - in
Republican terms - than many speculated in the immediate aftermath of a campaign
in which he surrounded himself with GOP has-beens such as former New York mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani and former House speaker Newt Gingrich.

While Giuliani remains a finalist for secretary of state, the prospects for both
men to hold sway in Trump's Cabinet seem to have faded.

"I think Giuliani and Gingrich are just loose fruits right now," said Douglas
Brinkley, a presidential historian at Rice University. "No one knows where to
put them."

With the choices he has made so far, Trump has pleased or at least calmed some
of his chief Republican critics during the campaign.

Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), who was a vocal critic of Trump during the campaign,
noted positively that Trump has added former detractors to his team, including
Haley for the U.N. post.

"We're still not done. Still got some to go. But I've been pleased with some of
them," Flake said.

That view was echoed by Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), who announced in August
that she would not vote for Trump or Clinton. "I think he's made some good
appointments," she said.

And Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.), who continued to criticize Trump after
ending his own GOP presidential bid, took to Twitter to praise the choice of
Mattis as defense secretary, saying he would "provide great leadership."

None of which is to say that governing will be easy for Trump - even with his
party holding both the White House and Congress. Several stress points seem
certain to surface between the populist president and more traditional
Republican members of Congress, assuming Trump keeps his word on some key
promises.

The GOP takeover of the White House, for instance, has emboldened House
Republicans to pursue an agenda that includes privatizing parts of Medicare, the
popular program for senior citizens. It is uncertain how that will square with
Trump's rhetoric as a candidate who sought to distinguish himself from other
Republicans by pledging to leave Medicare and some other safety-net programs
untouched.

While Trump and congressional Republicans share a goal of repealing Obamacare,
there has been less agreement over what exactly to replace it with. Trump has
only promised something better.

Trump could also face resistance on his immigration plans from some Republicans
who argue that overreaching will prove costly at the ballot box among Latinos, a
rapidly growing segment of the electorate that the party cannot afford to write
off.

And there are bound to be tensions on trade, where Trump's views are far more
isolationist than what his party has long advocated.

In some cases, Trump's nominees hold positions directly contrary to his. Mattis,
for example, recently told Trump that he does not believe in the effectiveness
of waterboarding, one of the "tough" interrogation techniques the
president-elect has vowed to reinstate.

Mattis favors working with allies to enforce the Iran nuclear deal, which Trump
has vowed to tear up. The defense secretary nominee also reportedly has told
colleagues that he understands the relationship between global security and
climate change, a phenomenon Trump has said he wants to address far less
aggressively than the current administration.

Timothy Naftali, a presidential historian, said that he sees numerous tension
points ahead, spawned from what he called "a marriage of convenience" between
the president-elect and other leaders of the Republican Party.

"It's not clear what kind of arrangement this marriage is going to need to keep
going," Naftali said, arguing that making campaign promises a reality will be
much tougher for Trump than continuing to tout them at campaign-style rallies,
such as the one he held in Cincinnati on Thursday.

"He can go out on the hustings and have great big rallies, and then he still has
to come back to Washington and make sausage," Naftali said.

john.wagner@washpost.com

sean.sullivan@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             893 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Happening today

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 115 words


9 a.m.     Fox News Sunday  (WTTG)Kellyanne Conway, former campaign manager
          for Donald Trump; Karen Finney, former spokeswoman for Hillary
          Clinton's campaign; Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein.
9 a.m.     State of the Union  (CNN)Conway; Robby Mook, former Clinton
          campaign manager.
9 a.m.     This Week  (ABC, WJLA)Vice President-elect Mike Pence; David
          Petraeus, former CIA director.
10 a.m.    Newsmakers  (C-SPAN)Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and John Conyers
          Jr. (D-Mich.).
10:30      Meet the Press  (NBC, WRC)Pence.
a.m.
10:30      Face the Nation  (CBS, WUSA)Republican National Committee Chairman
a.m.      Reince Priebus; former House speaker Newt Gingrich; House Minority
          Leader Nancy Pelosi;  Leon Panetta.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             894 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Digest

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A03

LENGTH: 410 words

WASHINGTON

Former POW Bergdahl asks Obama for pardon

Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, the former prisoner of war who is accused of
endangering comrades by walking off his post in Afghanistan, is asking President
Obama to pardon him before leaving office.

White House and Justice Department officials said Saturday that Bergdahl had
submitted copies of the clemency request. If granted by Obama, it would allow
Bergdahl to avoid a military trial scheduled for April in which he faces charges
of desertion and misbehavior before the enemy. The misbehavior charge carries a
maximum penalty of life in prison.

Bergdahl's defense team said that if the pardon is not granted, it will expand
its legal strategy to the new administration by filing a motion arguing that
President-elect Donald Trump violated his due process rights with scathing
public comments about the case.

The pardon request to Obama, first reported by the New York Times, was confirmed
by White House and Justice Department officials speaking on the condition of
anonymity because they were not authorized to comment on the matter.

Bergdahl, of Hailey, Idaho, walked off his post in Afghanistan in 2009 and was
held captive by the Taliban and its allies for five years.

The Obama administration's decision in May 2014 to exchange him for five Taliban
prisoners held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, prompted criticism that included some
Republicans accusing Obama of jeopardizing the nation's safety. Some lawmakers
were outraged that the administration did not give Congress a 30-day notice
about transferring the detainees, as is required by law.

Throughout his presidential campaign, Trump was   Bergdahl's most vocal critic,
saying repeatedly the soldier is a traitor.

- Associated Press

Fire engulfs buildings in Cambridge, Mass.:  Firefighters were struggling to put
down a large fire that jumped from one building to another across a densely
populated neighborhood in Cambridge, Mass., on Saturday. Heavy flames engulfed
residential buildings and several automobiles. Authorities said two police
officers and one firefighter were hurt but that no residents had been injured.

Sandy Hook group starts safety campaign:  A group formed by families who lost
children in the Sandy Hook school shooting, in Newtown, Conn., has started a
public-service campaign designed to teach people to recognize the warning signs
in someone who may be contemplating gun violence. The PSA can be viewed on
YouTube.

- From news services

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             895 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

BYLINE: Alex Wellerstein

SECTION: OUTLOOK; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 1929 words


says there is nothing to prevent the president from launching a nuclear weapon -
by design

Sometime in the next few weeks, Donald Trump will be briefed on the procedures
for how to activate the U.S. nuclear arsenal, if he hasn't already learned about
them.

All year, the prospect of giving the real estate and reality TV mogul the power
to launch attacks that would kill millions of people was one of the main reasons
his opponents argued against electing him. "A man you can bait with a tweet is
not a man we can trust with nuclear weapons," Hillary Clinton said in her speech
accepting the Democratic presidential nomination. She cut an ad along the same
lines. Republicans who didn't support Trump - and even some who did, such as
Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.) - also said they didn't think he could be trusted with
the launch codes.

Now they're his. When Trump takes office in January, he will have sole authority
over more than 7,000  warheads. There is no failsafe. The whole point of U.S.
nuclear weapons control is to make sure that the president - and only the
president - can use them if and whenever he decides to do so. The one sure way
to keep President Trump from launching a nuclear attack, under the system we've
had in place since the early Cold War, would have been to elect someone else.

When the legal framework for nuclear weapons was developed, the fear wasn't
about irrational presidents but trigger-happy generals. The Atomic Energy Act of
1946, which was passed with President Harry Truman's signature after nine months
of acrimonious congressional hearings, firmly put the power of the atomic bomb
in the hands of the president and the civilian components of the executive
branch. It was a momentous and controversial law, crafted in the months
following the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, with an eye toward
future standoffs with the Soviet Union.

The members of Congress who wrote the law, largely with the backing of the
scientists who worked on the Manhattan Project, framed it explicitly as a
question of who controls the power to use nuclear weapons: Is dropping an atomic
bomb a military act or a political one? If it is inherently political, above and
beyond a regular military tactic, then that power could not be entrusted to the
military. Ultimately, the president was supposed to be the check against the
Pentagon pushing to use nukes more often.

The scientists' fears were based in their experiences in World War II. Their
work under the Army Corps of Engineers and the Army Air Forces left them with a
sour taste: Generals, they concluded, cared little about ethics, democracy or
international politics. Even during the war, some civilians involved with
atomic-bombing work feared that the military had become too eager to leave
German and Japanese cities in cinders. The secretary of war, Henry Stimson,
learned about the ruinous firebombing of Tokyo from the press. He warned Truman
that letting the military run the show might cause the United States to "get the
reputation of outdoing Hitler in atrocities."

This division between military and civilian control over nuclear weapons has
been weaker or stronger at various points. In the late 1940s, U.S. nuclear
weapons could have their nuclear components - the plutonium or uranium "pits"
needed to start their reactions - removed and inserted as needed. The nuclear
parts of the atomic bombs were in the custody of the civilian Atomic Energy
Commission (the precursor to the present-day Energy Department), while the
military controlled the nonnuclear parts. The president had the power to
transfer these pits to the military and order their use.

During the Eisenhower administration, more compact and complex weapons were
developed whose nuclear and nonnuclear parts could not be separated. Fearing a
Soviet sneak attack, President Dwight D. Eisenhower put the military in charge
of most of the U.S. nuclear stockpile to streamline a possible response.
Eisenhower also "pre-delegated" authority to the military to use tactical
nuclear weapons (aimed at tanks, not cities) without getting specific
presidential approval in certain situations, such as if Soviet tank columns
rolled into Germany's Fulda Gap.

Fears of low-level commanders setting off nuclear conflagrations during the
tensions of the early 1960s persuaded President John F. Kennedy to dial some of
this back. Miscommunications during the Cuban missile crisis almost led to the
use of nuclear weapons by both U.S. and Soviet troops, and U.S. weapons
stationed abroad, such as the Jupiter missiles in Turkey, could be used by any
army that seized control of them. There were also lingering concerns about
"Strangelove"-esque rogue generals. The head of the Strategic Air Command, Gen.
Thomas Power, was an enthusiastic proponent of preemptive nuclear war.

Similar concerns within the upper reaches of the Kennedy administration led to a
push for technologies to "lock" the nuclear weapons and prevent their use
without some kind of codes or authorization. Some early versions were as
primitive as combination locks, but later versions were complex
electro-mechanical systems that could physically disable a weapon if it were
tampered with or if the wrong code was entered too many times.

Eventually, the brass adopted the idea that, when it came to nuclear matters,
they were at the beck and call of the president. It was not generals'
responsibility to make the order; it was their responsibility to carry it out.

That the president would be the only person competent to use nuclear weapons was
never challenged. Even asking the question would throw the entire system into
disarray, as Maj. Harold Hering learned in 1973. Hering was a 21-year Air Force
veteran who was decorated for his flying in Vietnam before being sent for
training as a nuclear missile squadron commander. He had been taught that
officers had an obligation to disobey illegal orders. So when he was told how to
launch a nuclear attack, he asked what seemed like a simple question: How could
he be sure that an order to launch his missiles was lawful? How could he be
sure, for example, that the president wasn't insane? Instead of an answer, he
got the boot: an aborted promotion and an administrative discharge for "failure
to demonstrate acceptable qualities of leadership" and for indicating "a
defective mental attitude towards his duties."

The Air Force's problem, in short, is that once a serviceman starts down the
rabbit hole of doubt, he becomes an unreliable second-guesser - and suddenly he
is one of the few people who can decide whether nuclear weapons are used.

The procedure for ordering a nuclear attack involves more than one person: The
president cannot literally press a button on his desk and start World War III.
There is no "nuclear button" at all. Instead, the U.S. nuclear
command-and-control system is bureaucratically and technically complex,
stretching out to encompass land-based missile silos, submarine-based ballistic
and cruise missiles, and weapons capable of being dropped from bombers. The
chain of command requires that the president order the secretary of defense to
carry out a launch; the secretary serves as the conduit for implementation by
the military. There are succession policies in place so that the procedure can
be continued in the event of the death or incapacitation of either the president
or the secretary of defense - or their designated successors.

Most details of how a nuclear war would be started are classified, because an
enemy who knew enough about the system could come up with ways to complicate or
defeat it. What is known is that an aide is always following the president,
carrying at least one large satchel (often two) known as the "nuclear football,"
reportedly containing information about nuclear attack possibilities and how the
president could verify his identity, authenticate orders and communicate with
the military about implementing them.

Could the secretary of defense refuse to carry out a presidential order for a
nuclear attack? The legal and constitutional aspects are not clear. The official
doctrine that has been released says nothing about this question, and the
cryptic public responses to official inquiries, even from Congress, indicate
that it is not something that can be openly talked about. "Only the president
can authorize the use of nuclear weapons" is essentially the only reply
officials ever give to any questions about nuclear controls. Could the president
simply fire the defense secretary and move on to the deputy secretary, the
secretary of the Army and so on through the chain of command? Maybe. Such an
action would at least slow things down, even if the refusal to carry out the
order was illegal.

Commanders further down the pipeline are trained to act quickly on any orders
that do come in. The launch officers are trained to launch weapons, not to
debate the legality or advisability of the action. Hence the problem with
Hering's question in 1973: While nuclear launch officers are not meant to be
strictly mechanical (and indeed, the United States has always resisted fully
automating the process), if they stopped to question whether their authenticated
orders were legitimate, they would put the credibility of U.S. nuclear
deterrence at risk.

Though Congress held hearings on these questions in the mid-1970s, nothing came
of them. The debate faded away except among a small circle of nuclear wonks. In
the early 1980s, Jeremy Stone, then the president of the Federation of American
Scientists, proposed that Congress  pass a law restricting presidential use of
nuclear weapons. The idea was fairly simple: So long as no nuclear weapons had
been used by another power in a conflict, the president should not be able to
order a first strike with nuclear weapons without getting approval from a fairly
large committee of high-ranking members of Congress. It would not eliminate the
possibility of an American first strike but would spread the responsibility more
democratically.

The idea was pooh-poohed by legal scholars, who noted that Congress has often
been far more belligerent than presidents and that the logistics could be
complicated.

The people who set up the current command-and-control system did believe there
was a check in place: elections. Don't want an insane president to have nuclear
weapons? Don't put one in office. But this isn't necessarily much of a check -
even rational presidents have bad days; even high-functioning people succumb to
mental illness or substance abuse.

It might be worth resurrecting this debate , if we take seriously the idea that
presidents - any of them, much less Trump - should not have the legal authority
to conduct arbitrary and unilateral nuclear war. Perhaps now, decades after the
end of the Cold War, we are past the moment when we need to entrust that power
in a single person. One can imagine a law that would allow the president to use
nuclear weapons in the face of imminent danger, the sort of situation in which a
matter of minutes or even seconds could make a difference, but would enact
formal requirements for outside consensus when more options were on the table.
It would not require a full renunciation of the possibility of a first-strike
nuclear attack (something the United States has never been willing to make) but
might add some reassurances that such decisions would not be made unilaterally.

Congress ceded a considerable amount of power to the presidency in 1946. Seventy
years later, maybe it is time lawmakers took some of it back.

Twitter: @wellerstein

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             896 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

Trump supporters aggressively challenge Stein recount efforts in 3 states

BYLINE: Jerry Markon;Sean Sullivan

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A04

LENGTH: 653 words


Supporters of President-elect Donald Trump are moving aggressively to challenge
Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein's push for a recount in three
states, filing legal challenges and criticizing the effort as quixotic and
ill-conceived.

Trump and his backers have filed challenges the past two days in Michigan,
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, which were critical to Trump's surprise victory last
month because they punctured the "blue wall" of states expected to carry
Democrat Hillary Clinton to victory. Trump narrowly won the trio of states.

Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette (R) on Friday tweeted that Stein's
request was "an expensive &a risky threat" as he announced he had filed an
emergency motion with the Michigan Supreme Court to stop it.

Stein, who has raised millions of dollars from supporters to help pay for the
costly recount efforts, blasted back in a statement calling Schuette's action "a
politically motivated attempt by Bill Schuette to side with Donald Trump in
opposition to a fair and accountable voting system.'' She added that "citizens
in Michigan and across the country of every political party have expressed their
concerns around our voting system and deserve to have their votes counted.''

Stein has raised concerns about possible hacking or other anomalies in the vote
in the three states but has presented no evidence of malfeasance. Election
officials in all three states have expressed confidence in their results, and
voting rights experts have said the effort is highly unlikely to overturn the
results that sent Trump to the White House.

Clinton's campaign has joined Stein's recount effort, though it has said it does
not expect the outcome of the election to change. The Clinton campaign had no
comment on Friday.

In Wisconsin, where Trump defeated Clinton by one percentage point, a recount is
underway. But Great America PAC and Stop Hillary PAC, both pro-Trump groups,
said Friday that they had filed a legal challenge a day earlier in federal court
in conjunction with a Wisconsin voter to stop the new count. Stein's team said
Friday that it will fight the challenge.

"Citizens in Wisconsin and across the country have made it clear that they want
a recount and deserve to see this process through to ensure integrity in the
vote," Stein's attorney Matthew D. Brinckerhoff said in a statement.

In Pennsylvania, where Stein has acknowledged the path to forcing a recount is
more difficult but has initiated an effort to do so nonetheless, attorneys for
Trump filed an objection to Stein's request in state court on Thursday.

"Even with the heroic efforts by state and local elections officials involved in
the recounts, as well as expeditious review by this Court, Stein's proposed
process will last weeks, perhaps even months. Either way, her request puts
Pennsylvania at grave risk of having not certified its Presidential electors by
December 13, the deadline for doing so," the filing says.

On Friday, the focus of the escalating battle was in Michigan, as the Board of
State Canvassers deadlocked 2 to 2 over an objection that attorneys for Trump
had filed Thursday against Stein's recount request. Trump had argued that Stein
cannot, as the state's fourth-place finisher, claim that she is "aggrieved" by
the way the vote unfolded and that there is not enough time to complete the
recount by the Dec. 13 deadline to certify Michigan's election results.

Because of the deadlock, the office of Michigan Secretary of State Ruth Johnson
(R) said in a tweet that "the recount is expected to commence early next week,
barring court action."

Schuette then filed his emergency motion with the Michigan Supreme Court. It is
unclear whether a hearing has been set. The earliest that a Michigan recount
could start would be next week.

jerry.markon@washpost.com

sean.sullivan@washpost.com

Alice Crites contributed to this report.

ï...OE For photos and a video, go to wapo.st/transition1203

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             897 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                Suburban Edition

Rebels in Syria fear U.S. betrayal

BYLINE: Karen DeYoung;Louisa Loveluck

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1448 words


uncertainty over president-elect

Any vacuum could push fighters toward al-Qaeda

Three years after the CIA began secretly shipping lethal aid to rebels fighting
against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, battlefield losses and fears that a
Donald Trump administration will abandon them have left tens of thousands of
opposition fighters weighing their alternatives.

Among the options, say U.S. officials, regional experts and the rebels
themselves, are a closer alliance with better-armed al-Qaeda and other extremist
groups, receipt of more sophisticated weaponry from Sunni states in the Persian
Gulf region opposed to a U.S. pullback, and adoption of more traditional
guerrilla tactics, including sniper and other small-scale attacks on both Syrian
and Russian targets.

Just over a year ago, the opposition held significant territory inside Syria.
Since then, in the absence of effective international pushback, Russian and
Syrian airstrikes have relentlessly bombarded their positions and the civilians
alongside them. On the ground, Syrian government troops - bolstered by Iran,
Lebanon's Hezbollah, and Shiite militia forces from Iraq - have retaken much of
that ground.

In brutal attacks over the past three weeks, they have been driven out of much
of the eastern Aleppo stronghold that they have occupied since 2012.

Trump has made clear that his priority in Syria is the separate fight against
the Islamic State, ideally in cooperation with Russia and the Syrian government,
as well as other allies. While still vague about his plans, the president-elect
has rejected the Obama administration's view that ending the civil war and
bringing Assad to the negotiating table are ultimately key to victory over the
Islamic militants, and indicated he will curtail support for the opposition.

Trump has repeatedly dismissed the rebels, saying, "We have no idea who these
people are."

"My attitude was you're fighting Syria, Syria is fighting ISIS, and you have to
get rid of ISIS," he told the Wall Street Journal last month, using another name
for the Islamic State.

Assad, in an interview the week after Trump's election, called the United States
a "natural" counterterrorism ally. He has long labeled the opposition as
terrorists equal to the Islamic State.

The possibility of cutting loose opposition groups it has vetted, trained and
armed would be a jolt to a CIA already unsettled by the low opinion of U.S.
intelligence capabilities that Trump had expressed during his presidential
campaign.

From a slow and disorganized start, the opposition "accomplished many of the
goals the U.S. hoped for," including their development into a credible fighting
force that showed signs of pressuring Assad into negotiations, had Russia not
begun bombing and Iran stepped up its presence on the ground, said one of
several U.S. officials who discussed the situation on the condition of anonymity
because they were not authorized to speak publicly.

The United States estimates that there are 50,000 or more fighters it calls
"moderate opposition," concentrated in the northwest province of Idlib, in
Aleppo and in smaller pockets throughout western and southern Syria, and that
they are not likely to give up.

"They've been fighting for years, and they've managed to survive," the U.S.
official said. "Their opposition to Assad is not going to fade away."

Although their fortunes were boosted last year by U.S. and Saudi Arabia-provided
TOW antitank missiles, the rebels have long complained that American assistance
has been stingy and has come with too many strings attached. Concerned that more
sophisticated weapons, including portable antiaircraft missiles, would end up in
the hands of extremists, President Obama refused to send them and prevailed upon
regional allies to impose similar restrictions on their own arms shipments.

Now, said one U.S.-vetted rebel commander, "we are very frustrated. The United
States refuses to provide weapons we need, and yet it still thinks it can tell
us what to do. They promise support and then watch us drown."

"America will have no influence if our comrades are forced [to retreat to]
Idlib" from Aleppo, said the commander, who asked not to be identified to speak
about sensitive rebel relations with the United States.

Most rebels already forced to relinquish territory have gone to Idlib, which is
fast becoming a holding pen for what is left of the rebellion. The area is
dominated by as many as 10,000 fighters for Jabhat al-Nusra, the al-Qaeda-linked
group now known as Jabhat Fatah al-Sham, and an equal number of Ahrar al-Sham,
an Islamist group tied to the wider rebel movement that the United States does
not consider terrorist.

Some experts, including Trump's designated White House national security
adviser, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, think that the growing operational
alliance between the rebels and extremist groups began long ago.

Flynn argued last year that Obama's Syria strategy of first withholding, then
offering only measured support for the opposition through a covert CIA program,
effectively allowed extremist organizations to grow at rebel expense. Asked in a
July 2015 al Jazeera interview whether there should have been stronger early
support for the opposition, Flynn said: "When you don't get in and help
somebody, they're going to find other means to achieve their goals. ... We
should have done more earlier on in this effort."

At the same time, Flynn has said, the administration downplayed early
intelligence indicating that al-Nusra and eventually the Islamic State
organization, which combined Islamist extremists and former Iraqi army officers
left adrift by the 2003 U.S. invasion, were growing rapidly.

In a book published last summer, Flynn wrote that they are allied with those who
"share their hatred of the West," including "North Korea, Russia, China, Cuba
and Venezuela."

But in an analysis looking forward, echoed by Trump and certain to be
influential in the incoming White House, Flynn has also outlined a World War II
-type global alliance, including both the United States and Russia, under a
single leadership, to combat what he has called "Islam's ... political
ideology."

Others have noted that cutting off the opposition would not only support Russian
and Syrian aims but also would benefit Iran at the perceived expense of Saudi
Arabia, Qatar and other regional U.S. allies who view that country as an
existential threat.

"There will be significant reputational costs with our allies in the region if
we abandon support of the moderate opposition," said Rep. Adam B. Schiff
(Calif.), the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.

He said the question is "whether our Gulf allies can count on us or they can't,
whether the Iranians are going to be given free rein or they won't."

"A lot obviously will depend on what the president-elect does, what his advisers
urge him to do," Schiff said. Referring to retired Marine Gen. James Mattis,
Trump's choice for defense secretary, Schiff added, "I think Gen. Mattis will
have different views ... [that] recognize the implications in terms of Iranian
influence in the region."

Disagreement over whether to take a tougher line against Russia in Syria -
including direct military intervention on behalf of civilians and, indirectly,
the rebels - in Aleppo and beyond has already caused deep divisions between
Obama's State Department and the reluctant Defense Department and the White
House.

Secretary of State John F. Kerry has continued negotiations over a cease-fire,
meeting again with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Rome on Friday.
Talks have focused on an agreement to safely deliver humanitarian aid and to
evacuate both civilians, who want to leave, and the al-Nusra forces that Russia
says are the majority of some several thousand anti-Assad fighters in the
eastern part of the city. U.S. officials think the militants there number in the
hundreds.

But Kerry has had little leverage to persuade Moscow to change its strategy,
designed to ensure a military victory for Assad.

As the incoming Trump administration considers withdrawing from involvement in
either assisting or resolving the civil war, others have indicated they will
move into the anticipated vacuum.

Qatar has said it will continue supporting and supplying the rebels, regardless
of what the United States decides.

"We want to have the U.S. with us, for sure. They have been our historic ally,"
Qatar Foreign Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Jassim al-Thani said last week
in an interview with Reuters in Doha. "But if they want to change their minds
... we are not going to change our position."

karen.deyoung@washpost.com

louisa.loveluck@washpost.com

Loveluck reported from Beirut.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             898 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                 Every Edition

What the new mogul in chief means for the mother of all D.C. real estate deals

BYLINE: Jonathan O'Connell

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. G03

LENGTH: 1488 words


Two billionaire New York City developers bidding to build a new headquarters for
the FBI - maybe the largest government development since the CIA moved to
Langley in Northern Virginia in 1961 - have deep ties with President-elect
Donald Trump, whose victory injects new intrigue into the jockeying for the more
than $2 billion project.

One, Steven Roth, served as an economic adviser to Trump's presidential campaign
and co-owns a building with him in Manhattan. Another, Larry Silverstein, has
been referred to by Trump as a "friend of mine."

Roth and Silverstein have both known Trump for more than 30 years. They have
been rivals on some projects and cheerleaders on others.

Trump considered bidding on the FBI project himself before running for the
presidency; the current FBI headquarters on Pennsylvania Avenue is near his new
Washington hotel.

And then there's this wrinkle: The man who has lobbied hardest for a new campus,
FBI Director James B. Comey, had his own role in the presidential campaign,
publicly extending the investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private
email server as secretary of state, less than two weeks before Election Day.

FBI officials are nearing the finish line on a decade-long push for a secure
campus in the Washington suburbs. The contract attracted some of the most
prominent developers on the East Coast. And the winning development team not
only will receive more than $1 billion in federal appropriations to foot the
cost of a new campus but also will win control of the current FBI headquarters
property, considered a once-in-a-generation development opportunity in downtown
Washington.

Trump will be the first commercial real estate mogul to become president.
Federal real estate experts say the president does not typically get personally
involved in specific projects, even of this magnitude, leaving such decisions to
contracting officials. It would be unusual for Trump to play a role.

A Trump spokeswoman declined to comment.

Roth is founder and chairman of Vornado Realty Trust, which acquired a mutual
stake with Trump in a 2 million-square-foot Manhattan building in 2007 and has
partnered in multiple commercial properties with Trump's son-in-law Jared
Kushner.

Trump named Roth as an economic adviser on his campaign. During his victory
speech after winning the New York presidential primary in April, Trump gestured
to Roth from the stage and said he had recently called Roth to congratulate him
on one of his projects, 220 Central Park South.

"It's a tremendous success," Trump said. "I said, 'Steve, congratulations on the
building.' He said, 'Donald, it's nothing compared to what's happening with
you.'"

Silverstein, who founded his development company in 1957, has developed, owned
or managed 40 million square feet of commercial real estate.

Trump proposed building two office towers with Silverstein at the former World
Trade Center site four years after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

At the time, Trump called Silverstein "a great guy, a good guy ... a friend of
mine" in an interview on MSNBC, though they have also feuded on occasion.

For years, FBI leaders have argued that their current headquarters, the dated J.
Edgar Hoover Building on Pennsylvania Avenue NW, falls short of the security and
operational needs of a modern crime-fighting agency.

As a precaution, most of the entrances were sealed after the 1995 bombing of a
federal building in Oklahoma City. The FBI building is in such rough shape that
netting hangs on the building's east facade to prevent pieces of concrete from
falling onto the sidewalk.

In response to Republican spending constraints, the Obama administration has
proposed an unconventional trade: offer the Hoover site to a builder as a way of
helping to pay for a new campus in Greenbelt or Landover in Maryland, or in
Springfield, Va. The location will be selected at the same time as the
developer.

Congress, led by House Republicans, is slated to consider the property swap in
coming weeks as part of a $1.7 billion appropriations request for the FBI
headquarters from the Obama administration. That is in addition to $390 million
that was previously appropriated.

The General Services Administration, which manages federal real estate, is
scheduled to choose a development team and campus location in March. The bidding
process calls for a panel of government officials with relevant expertise to
make the selection.

It would be highly unusual for a president to intervene, said Robert A. Peck, a
GSA official who oversaw the Public Buildings Service when Trump was selected
for the hotel project.

"The FBI needs a new headquarters," he said. "Presumably these guys are
pro-law-enforcement and, whatever Comey did, these guys are interested in
security, and that's what they will focus on."

The GSA has not disclosed the names of a list of approved bidders for the
project, but officials and executives say four teams are  finalists - those
backed by the two New Yorkers and teams headed by Boston Properties of
Massachusetts and the Peterson Cos. of Fairfax.

Each is permitted to offer proposals for multiple sites. Officials at those
companies declined to comment.

Before running for office, Trump considered pursuing the project. After he won
the deal to develop Washington's Old Post Office Pavilion into a luxury hotel in
2013, he told The Washington Post that he and his daughter Ivanka would be
"watching the FBI as to what's going to happen" with the deal.

"When I talked with him, he wanted to talk about the FBI building. That was what
was on his mind," said Dorothy Robyn, a former real estate official at the
Pentagon and the GSA, recalling a conversation at the time. "He talked about how
he might submit a proposal to be the developer. I didn't know if it was bluster
or not, but he was definitely thinking about it."

Comey has made his case on Capitol Hill for the headquarters project and keeps a
piece of broken concrete from the Hoover building's facade in his office as a
reminder of the need to upgrade.

During the campaign, Comey first drew Trump's ire for not pursuing criminal
charges over Clinton's use of a private email server. But Trump later praised
him when he eschewed Justice Department guidelines in disclosing a new review of
her email shortly before Election Day.

FBI spokeswoman Samantha Shero declined to speculate on Comey's relationship
with the president-elect.

In a statement about the project, she said: "GSA and FBI have made significant
progress on the procurement for the FBI's new Headquarters Consolidation
Project. The teams have been working diligently together to meet the expected
March date to select an awardee. If Congress provides the resources requested in
the President's fiscal year 2017 budget request, we will be in a position to
deliver a secure, consolidated headquarters for the FBI."

Because the Hoover building is across the street from Trump's new D.C. hotel, he
could benefit financially from its redevelopment. Trump owns about
three-quarters of the hotel project personally, but he has said that he will
step away from his business interests when he takes office.

"Anything that moves redevelopment quickly could only help the area around it,"
said Neil O. Albert, president of the DowntownDC Business Improvement District,
an association of downtown developers.

Roth's firm, Vornado, is bidding in tandem with the JBG Cos. of Chevy Chase,
which is also merging with Vornado's Washington unit. W. Matthew Kelly, who is
slated to become chief executive of the new company, said in October that the
firms' FBI proposal was a 50-50 split between Vornado and JBG.

Trump's history with Silverstein, chairman of Silverstein Properties and one of
New York's most prolific developers, appears to have had its ups and downs. Four
years after the 9/11 attacks, Trump proposed building two office towers at the
site, where Silverstein owned development rights. He called the
Silverstein-backed design for the site "the worst pile of crap architecture I
have ever seen in my life."

Silverstein supported Clinton for president, but the day after the election,
speaking at a New York real estate conference, he complimented Trump's
leadership qualities. For the FBI project, Silverstein is bidding in partnership
with Lerner Enterprises, headed by Washington Nationals owner Theodore Lerner.

Trump "works hard. He is highly focused when he wants to be," Silverstein said
at the conference, according to Commercial Property Executive, a trade
publication. "Knowing his determination, his drive, his commitment once he makes
it ... will propel him to be the best president he can possibly be."

Robyn, who left the GSA two years ago, said that for the most part the FBI
project has been "insulated from politics" and is moving forward.

"The FBI building is a train very, very far down the track," she said. "I think
there's a lot of momentum and it's going to happen."

jonathan.oconnell@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             899 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Raw emotions persist in run-up to Trump presidency

BYLINE: Dan Balz

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1255 words


Every four years, the Institute of Politics at Harvard's Kennedy School of
Government assembles the managers of the presidential campaigns for a deep,
post-election debrief. It is always illuminating and generally civil, with
occasional fireworks. Because the 2016 election was unlike any other, this
year's managers conference was also unlike any other.

In the immediate aftermath of President-elect Donald Trump's victory over former
secretary of state Hillary Clinton, all the leading players said the right
things. Trump called for healing and said that he would try to bring the country
together. Clinton asked her supporters to give the newly elected president the
space and opportunity to govern. President Obama, despite harsh words for Trump
through the campaign, said that he would assure an orderly transfer of power in
the spirit of reconciliation.

But everyone knew or should have known that the wounds from an election that was
as raw and divisive and negative as campaign 2016 would not be quickly healed.
That especially includes those who were the principal antagonists, the people
who ran the campaigns during the general election. At Harvard's IOP, it all
gushed forth, creating perhaps the most contentious session that this series of
conferences, which began in 1972, had ever seen.

The general-election session was the culmination of the two-day conference,
which was organized in collaboration with Harvard's Shorenstein Center on Media,
Politics and Public Policy. Earlier sessions plumbed, separately, the Republican
and Democratic nomination battles, as well as initial strategic assumptions of
the many major-party candidates who sought the White House this year.

On Thursday night, the dinner included a lively conversation among media
executives, punctuated by dissenting interjections from the audience, about the
role of the news media, a topic that will be a continuing focus of debate as the
new Trump administration takes and exercises power. Overall the sessions were
tame, until the final Thursday afternoon, when the pent-up fury of the campaign
finally erupted.

My colleagues Karen Tumulty and Philip Rucker provided a full account of what
transpired when the leading advisers for Trump and Clinton sat across the table
from one another for 2                1/2              hours to offer a
historical rough draft of how the general election campaign unfolded. The
headline on their story described it as a "shouting match." (For the sake of
full disclosure, I helped to moderate the general-election session, along with
NBC's Andrea Mitchell and BuzzFeed's Katherine Miller.)

What captured the biggest headline was an explosive exchange between Clinton
communications director Jennifer Palmieri and Trump campaign manager Kellyanne
Conway over whether the Trump team had run a campaign that had empowered the
voices of white nationalists. Palmieri bluntly said Trump had done so and that
she would rather have lost the election than run a campaign the way she asserted
Trump did. Conway angrily stood her ground, denying the charge and contending
that Clinton lost through her own inadequacies, as she and Palmieri spoke over
and past each other.

The combination of pain and resentment toward Trump among Clinton advisers was
never much below the surface. This was an election that the Democratic nominee
expected to win in what would have been a history-making event. Her advisers
were confident of that victory until the moment late on the night of the
election when their path to 270 electoral votes had been finally blocked by
Trump's breaching of the "blue wall" in the Northern industrial states. They
were devastated by the loss.

Campaign manager Robby Mook's explanation of why Clinton lost focused heavily on
the intervention by FBI Director James B. Comey in the final 10 days. Mook said
Comey's twin moves concerning the FBI's probe into Clinton's emails contributed
significantly to the outcome, noting that late-deciders broke far more for
Trump. He also acknowledged shortcomings by the campaign, including a failure to
produce the kind of support among key parts of the Obama coalition - whether
young voters, suburban women or African Americans - that the campaign had
estimated she would need to win.

What Mook and his colleagues found difficult to acknowledge, in part because
they were there to shield their candidate from too much blame, was Clinton's
weakness as a candidate and the hostility that she had engendered - fairly or
unfairly - over a long period of time that hampered her inability to connect
more effectively with enough voters. That will remain an important, if not fully
measurable, aspect of what cost her the election - and it was something Trump's
team was determined to assert throughout the discussion.

If there was pain and resentment on the Clinton side (along with some expressed
respect for what Trump's team pulled off), there was another emotion that
emanated from Trump's advisers, an expression of grievance born of an apparent
feeling of a lack of respect for what their candidate had done after so many
said he was destined to lose. The same combativeness that marked the election
was on display time and again during the discussion from Trump's side of the
table - an anti-establishment sentiment of us-vs.-them that will probably
animate Trump's presidency.

There's no question that the newly elected president scored a great upset and
deserves credit for running a far more shrewd campaign than his critics
contended throughout the election. Some of those who attended the Harvard
sessions as observers said afterward that the Trump team demonstrated more
competence and skill as they discussed what happened than some of the
caricatures of the operation as the contest was unfolding.

But Trump's victory, however shocking to those who never anticipated it, was no
landslide, as some of his advisers have claimed. He won 306 electoral college
votes. While that is better than George W. Bush managed in both of his
presidential campaigns, it is a smaller number than in the victories by Obama,
Bill Clinton, George H.W. Bush and Ronald Reagan.

Beyond that, Trump now trails in the popular vote by almost 2.6 million votes,
or 1.9 percentage points, according to compilations posted by David Wasserman of
the Cook Political Report. Trump's breakthrough victories in Pennsylvania,
Michigan and Wisconsin, which sealed his victory, were each by less than a
percentage point and by a combined total of fewer than 80,000 votes.

All that became another flash point over whether Trump had won a true mandate.
When the Clinton team said no, Trump advisers bristled in response. We won, they
said. Case closed.

As the campaign managers were delivering their analyses Thursday afternoon,
Trump was on the road to begin a series of rallies to thank his supporters. He
started in Cincinnati, and it was as if the campaign had never ended, with the
buoyant president-elect reveling in his victory.

Chants of "lock her up" echoed through the arena when he mentioned Clinton, and
he laced his speech with another attack on the "dishonest" news media. Outside
the arena, protesters signaled their unwillingness to reconcile.

So it should have been no surprise that, in the conference room at Harvard
University, the tensions between the two sides were so vividly displayed. The
emotions are testament to the deep divisions that will continue to exist and to
the long and challenging road ahead for the 45th president and for the country
he will govern.

dan.balz@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2016 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


                             900 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                      Carlsbad Current-Argus (New Mexico)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Dems arrive at crossroads that will have great significance

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 548 words


WASHINGTON - While the challenges of the GOP are obscured by victory, the
problems of the Democratic Party are on full display. Republicans suffer from
heart disease; Democrats have an ugly, gushing head wound.

The losing party would be foolish to minimize the scale of its political
failure. Hillary Clinton proved incapable of defeating a reality television host
whom more than 60 percent of Americans viewed as unfit to be president. It is
perhaps the most humiliating moment in the long history of Mr. Jefferson's
party. But the effect is more than reputational. The Democratic candidate and
her team could not protect America from a serious risk to its ideals and
institutions by an untested and unstable novice who flirted with
authoritarianism and made enough gaffes on an average Tuesday to sink a normal
presidential campaign.

Donald Trump was riding a modest electoral wave in certain parts of the country,
but it was not large enough to overwhelm a reasonably capable Democratic
candidate with a decent political strategy. Trump's vote did not burst the
levees; it barely lapped over the top of them in the industrial Midwest. The
"blue wall" was too low by just a foot or two.

The proposition "anyone but Hillary" was tested, with Republicans (and others)
ultimately rallying to "anyone." The Obama coalition - including young, minority
and college-educated voters - did not turn out in sufficient numbers. And an
appeal to racial and ethnic resentment remains disturbingly potent in our
politics - the continuing evidence of America's original sin.

But here is the largest, long-term Democratic challenge: It has become a
provincial party. It is highly concentrated in urban areas and clings to the
coasts. But our constitutional system puts emphasis on holding geography,
particularly in the House of Representatives and the Electoral College. It is
difficult for Democrats to prevail from isolated islands of deep blue. In 2012,
President Obama won the presidency with fewer than 700 counties out of more than
3,000 in America - a historical low. Clinton carried a little under 500 - about
15 percent of the total.

What are the Democratic options moving forward? First, there is the Bernie
Sanders option - the embrace of a leftist populism that amounts to democratic
socialism. Second, there is the Joe Biden option - a liberalism that makes a
sustained outreach to union members and other blue-collar workers while showing
a Catholic religious sensibility on issues of social justice. Third, there is
the option of doubling down on the proven Barack Obama option, which requires a
candidate who can excite rather than sedate the Obama-era base.

Democrats should not overlearn the lessons of a close election. Option No. 3 is
the Democratic future on the presidential level. But for the foreseeable future,
Democrats will also need a dash of No. 2, including a more accommodating
attitude toward religion and associational rights.

There is a serious prospect, however, that Democrats will choose No. 1. America
would cease to have a center-left party and a center-right party. Both
radicalized institutions would exaggerate our national differences. And the
cause of national unity would be damaged even further.

Michael Gerson is a columnist for The Washington Post.

Michael Gerson

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cnm


                     Copyright 2016 Carlsbad Current-Argus
                              All Rights Reserved


                             901 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                      Carlsbad Current-Argus (New Mexico)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Good news and bad news for New Mexico's budget

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 677 words


There is a huge push in our country to talk about the office of the United
States president without any data. Example: there is a notion that the protests
about the election of President-elect Donald Trump are unprecedented. When
Lincoln was declared the winner in 1860, nine states seceded from the Union. Our
nation fought the Civil War.

So far, our nation has not had any states quit but there is still time before
Trump takes office. California is one state with citizens wanting to secede.
They can't because they have spent themselves into the poor house and only
federal money can keep them going.

California has overspent its budget by $127 billion. In round numbers that's
$3,500 per every person, dog, cat and hamster in the state. So, California is
not going anywhere other than the poor house.

New Mexico is over spending this year's budget by about $500 million. That's
about $250 for every person, dog, cat and coyote.

Our representatives in Santa Fe need to stop spending everything in the coffers
they can find and a little more each year. Restraint is needed.

There is good news (hooray) and bad news (shuckins) as to the New Mexico budget.
First the good news. It isn't hopeless like what is happening in California. It
can be fixed and New Mexico can live within its means with effective management
from the representatives in Santa Fe.

The bad news is that the solution will hurt. Some people will lose their jobs
through no fault of their own. This cannot be helped. What has put New Mexico in
dire straits (not the band) was the election of Bill Richardson in 2002.
Previously, Gov. Gary Johnson had New Mexico as one of only five states with a
rosy financial picture.

But Bill Richardson came to New Mexico and the governorship with only one goal:
to become the president of the United States. Every moment, action and tax
dollar available was used to get Bill Richardson on the world's stage as a
top-tier presidential contender. This push to get Richardson the presidential
nomination didn't come cheap.

Richardson worked to be declared the "Education Governor" of the United States.
He won that moniker which came with a propensity to hire lots of people into the
public schools. This was supposed to make New Mexico No. 1 in education
nationally. Sadly, spending lots of New Mexico tax dollars didn't make
Richardson president nor did it lift New Mexico education.

Worse, once people are hired they expect to keep their jobs. With the downturn
of oil and gas revenue the state of New Mexico has less money available and must
do something. Most of the quick cures have already been done so this time it
must be drastic. There are only two places to get this money.

The first is to raise the gross receipts taxes substantially. In many places the
gross receipts tax is above 7 percent. Taking it to 10 percent or more would
cripple the economy. Don't look to corporate taxes since they are only about $90
million a year.

The only place left to really make a cut is education. To balance the budget,
New Mexico needs to cut about 10 percent from education. This is despite the
education mantra that it doesn't have enough money even now and need lots and
lots more money.

Most of the education budget is spent on people. That is why what must be cut
are some of those people who were hired during the Richardson orgy of spending.
There is one rule. Never fire or change the pay for teachers. The cuts must be
with administration and everything else such as the legions of consultants in
schools.

Shrink the administrative overhead to balance the budget. It can be done without
harm to the students. The representatives will need to cut other things but the
main thing is to cut education. Politically, that is almost impossible but the
next election is as far away as possible so maybe it can be done.

Finally, quit spending everything the state has and a little more than the state
has each year. Don't turn our state into a California.

Email: drswickard@comcast.net - Swickard's new novel, Hideaway Hills, is
available at Amazon.com.

Michael Swickard, Ph.D.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cnm


                     Copyright 2016 Carlsbad Current-Argus
                              All Rights Reserved


                             902 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Alamogordo Daily News (New Mexico)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Mattis is among front-runners as defense secretary

BYLINE: By, Jeff Schogol

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. H7

LENGTH: 319 words


Retired Marine Gen. James Mattis, a decorated war-time commander considered a
deity by many troops and veterans, is on the short-list to run the Pentagon in
the Trump administration, according to media reports.

Mattis is meeting with President-Elect Donald Trump on Saturday, the Associated
Press is reporting. Bloomberg reported Friday that Trump is looking at Mattis
and retired Army Gen. Jack Keane as possible nominees for defense secretary.

If nominated, Mattis would need a waiver from Congress to become defense
secretary because he has not been out of uniform for seven years, per Title 10
of the U.S. Code.It is possible Mattis is meeting with Trump to offer advice on
who Trump should pick as defense secretary.

Mattis could not be immediately reached for comment on Friday. He spent 44 years
in the Marine Corps and retired in 2013 after leading U.S. Central Command.

For service members, having Mattis serve as defense secretary could be a
consolation prize of sorts. In a Military Times survey earlier this year, more
than half of the 948 troops surveyed said they believed Mattis running for
president would be a positive development.

But despite efforts this spring by disaffected Republicans to get him to run as
a third party candidate, Mattis opted to stay out of the presidential race.

Now a fellow at the Hoover Institution in California, Mattis has launched a
research project into how Americans view the military and he has spoken out
about how little civilians understand about what the military does.

In September, he told Military Times that he is particularly concerned about
civilian policy-makers making changes to the military to advance social
policies.

"We are liable to find ourselves paying the cost on a battlefield that we do not
want to pay," Mattis said, adding, "We have to be very careful that we do not
undercut the military battlefield effectiveness with shortsighted social
programs."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: alm


                    Copyright 2016 The Alamogordo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             903 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Alamogordo Daily News (New Mexico)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Trump's military will add muscle -- if he can find vastly more funding

BYLINE: By, Leo Shane III and Andrew Tilghman

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. H16

LENGTH: 2240 words


President-elect Donald Trump wants a much bigger military. All he needs to do is
find the money and political support to make it happen.

About two weeks into the Republican businessman's transition from unlikely
presidential candidate to unlikely commander in chief, many details of his plans
for the Defense Department remain unsettled. His picks to lead the Pentagon, the
individual services and his national security staff are still unsettled. Retired
Army Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn was named his administration's national security
adviser on Friday, and Trump has been reaching out to potential defense
secretary candidates in recent days, including retired Marine Corps Gen. James
Mattis, who as the head of U.S. Central Command from 2010 to 2013 choreographed
the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq under President Obama.

The common thread between Team Trump's transition discussions and the
president-elect's campaign rhetoric is a belief that defense spending has
dropped to dangerously low levels, and that the military needs to add lots of
people - more than 160,000 by some estimates - along with investing heavily in
new ships and aircraft.

Trump wants an active-duty Army with another 60,000 soldiers in the ranks, an
unspecified number of additional sailors to man the 78 ships and submarines he
intends to see built in coming years. He wants up to 12,000 more Marines to
serve in infantry and tank battalions, and at least another 100 combat aircraft
for the Air Force.

If Trump's administration can accomplish even a portion of this, it could have
sweeping effects on rank-and-file military personnel, touching everything from
individual advancement opportunities to the number of U.S. troops stationed
overseas and overall operational tempo. The scope of growth being suggested
would require many more officers and noncommissioned officers, influencing, over
the course of several years, how each service recruits, promotes and retains its
workforce.

It could reshape how many American troops find themselves assigned to
geopolitical hot spots, including the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Southeast
Asia. And all of this, in theory, would ease the pace at which service members
are deployed or actively preparing to go overseas, which amounts to time away
from their homes and families.

It is unclear, though, whether Trump's plans include a boost for troops' pay and
benefits, the value of which has eroded as annual raises have fallen below
civilian wage growth for the past five years. This has become a source of
frustration and anxiety among rank-and-file personnel, many of whom feel they've
been asked to do more with less.

In the past, cuts to military personnel accounts came at the request of the
Pentagon's top brass, which voiced concerns that rising personnel costs would
take money from modernization and readiness accounts. And any plans to ratchet
up the size of the force could renew pressure on military personnel accounts
because maintaining a larger force costs more money.

Standing in Trump's way is the ongoing fight in Washington over mandatory
spending caps enacted by Congress in 2011 with hopes of reigning in the federal
budget. This has inflicted a unique form of paralysis on the Pentagon, in
particular, which has managed to ease some shortfalls by leveraging the $25
billion to $30 billion set aside each year for combat operations and other
overseas contingencies.

Although there is widespread distaste for the Budget Control Act, lawmakers have
been unable to negotiate a way forward that increases defense spending while
ensuring other areas of the budget are kept in check. Republican leaders in
Congress say they are hopeful the next administration, coupled with a Republican
majority in both houses, will bring new possibilities for a repeal. But
Democrats have promised a fight if Trump and his administration insist on
increasing defense spending without boosting domestic programs.

"Both presidential candidates called for an end to sequestration for defense,"
said Rep. Michael Turner, R-Ohio and a key member of the House Armed Services
Committee. "I believe Congress is ready to repeal it, certainly on the military
side."

Yet even if a compromise is reached on Capitol Hill, the cost for Trump's
military proposals may be too much for fiscal hawks to accept. Earlier this
month, officials from the conservative American Enterprise Institute estimated
"about $55 to $60 billion extra per year over four years for the meat and
potatoes of a military buildup." Fully implementing his plan would surely push
that number higher.

"Adding in crucial smaller programs, accounting for weapons cost growth, and
returning the entire force to adequate readiness pushes the real price tag even
further upward," the report said. A more realistic figure is "somewhere between
an additional $250 to $300 billion over four years."

Convincing Democrats and skeptical Republicans already wary of federal debt to
support such massive investments will take political savvy and legwork, much of
which will fall on Trump's yet-to-be-named military appointees.

An Army of 540,000

Trump's military agenda has been heavily influenced by researchers at the
conservative Heritage Foundation, a Washington think tank. Its annual " Index of
U.S. Military Strength," released in mid-November, concludes that America's
armed forces have withered. They are, the report argues, "only marginally able
to meet the demands of defending vital national interests." It assigns that term
- "marginal" - to the Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps.

The Army is in much worse shape, according to these findings. With only
one-third of the force at "acceptable" readiness, the Army has become "smaller,
older and weaker," the Heritage report warns.

Trump has said he wants to halt the Army's planned personnel drawdown, which is
on course to bottom out at 450,000 active-duty soldiers in 2018. Instead, he
wants boost today's force by 60,000, for a total of 540,000 soldiers. Defense
advocates, even those who've been critical of Trump, say this is a necessity.

"The Army is grossly undermanned." said retired Gen. Barry McCaffrey, a 32-year
infantry officer who held top-level posts at the Pentagon and in NATO and later
served as drug czar in President Bill Clinton's administration. "You've got to
have a military combat capability that is believed by the Russians and the North
Koreans, among others, as being capable and willing to confront them in an
air-ground-sea battle."

McCaffrey said specifically that there is "inadequate ground combat power" in
Europe, which is under threat from a resurgent Russia. Trump has indicated he
wants to reset relations with Moscow, but Pentagon leadership and even members
of his own party believe that would be a mistake. The Heritage Foundation says
Russia is the primary threat to American interests, followed by Iran, China and
terrorist groups such as the Islamic State. North Korea was downgraded, from
"hostile" to merely "aggressive."

It is unclear whether the growth Trump envisions would translate to more troops
deployed or assigned outside the United States. He has said he wants foreign
allies to take a larger role providing for their own defense, hinting that some
overseas military bases could be consolidated or shuttered. But McCaffrey said
he is confident Trump will see value in those alliances and strive to reinforce
U.S. military presence in key regions.

"At some point," the retired general said, "math counts in warfare. If you don't
want to fight, then maintain a capability that is persuasive to your adversary
as being capable of taking them on."

New ships and submarines

Trump also as vowed to build the 350-ship Navy that Republican defense hawks
have long sought. Today, the battle force totals 272 ships and submarines.

It's unclear what mix of ships the incoming administration wants to build, but
one thing is for sure: There will be considerable cost. Ford-class aircraft
carriers, for instance, are about $10 billion each. A single Virginia-class
attack sub is $3 billion. Each new littoral combat ship is $500 million. And
beyond hardware, this plan would require the addition of 50,000 sailors, by one
estimate.

In a campaign memo, Trump advisers promised specifically to fund modernizing "a
significant number of the Navy's Ticonderoga-class cruisers," some of which have
been sidelined for months or years pending overhauls. The memo describes plans
to invest heavily in new subs and Arleigh Burke-class destroyers, and to
revitalize shipyards and get warships the maintenance that has been deferred in
the last few years because due to budget cuts. Trump wants to identify where old
shipyards went out of business and have the ability to restart.

Even if Trump's administration can find the money needed for such a dramatic
expansion, new ships can't be built overnight. Reaching a fleet of the size
Trump has proposed will take until the 2030s, said Bryan Clark, who served as
senior aide to Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Jon Greenert and now works as an
analyst with the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. To get there,
the Navy would need to accelerate aircraft carrier production, start building
three Virginia-class attack submarines per year, continue to commission new
Littoral Combat Ships and have new frigates doing low-end missions in 2019.

Such a buildup would propel the service from a force of 330,000 sailors today to
more than 380,000. If enacted, Trump's Navy would be largest size since 1998.

More aircraft and Airmen

Trump's Air Force would boast 1,200 fighter aircraft, ideally, an increase of
about 100. Including surveillance, cargo planes and other platforms, the Air
Force fleet numbers nearly 2,000 today.

Defense advocates are hopeful that Trump's administration will push to
supplement the Air Force's operations and maintenance budget, making it easier
to pay for spare parts, fuel and training hours. "It needs to be done," said
retired Gen. Merrill McPeak, who was the Air Force's chief of staff during the
first Gulf War. "The Air Force is too small now, and in particular, the combat
flying elements of the Air Force are too small. If he is able to follow through
on such a notion, I think that would be grand."

The Air Force has declined from its post-9/11 peak of 376,616 airmen in fiscal
2004 to roughly 311,000 in fiscal 2015. That drawdown was most painfully felt in
2014, when a series of voluntary and involuntary force management programs cut
roughly 20,000 airmen in two years and left the active-duty Air Force at its
lowest end strength since 1948 - the year after it was established as its own
service.

Air Force Secretary Deborah Lee James later admitted that she soon realized the
sequestration-driven force cuts "just didn't seem to be adding up anymore," and
were causing significant strain on the force. So leaders refocused on trying to
rebuild, especially in crucial areas such as cyber security, intelligence,
surveillance and reconnaissance, battlefield airmen and maintenance. Today, the
Air Force numbers about 317,000.

John Venable, an Air Force veteran and a defense fellow at the Heritage
Foundation, said he believes Trump could boost Air Force personnel by roughly
40,000 airmen in the next few years, a number needed to operate and maintain the
new equipment Trump wants to buy. But it will have to be a methodical growth to
bring airmen on board and train them, he said. Today, the Air Force is about 700
pilots short, and training new personnel to replace departing pilots is not a
quick process.

Enough Marines for 2 wars at once

Trump has promised to build a Marine Corps capable of simultaneously winning two
wars. It would be based on 36 battalions, up from the current force structure of
24 active-duty infantry battalions, two active-duty tank battalions and
supporting units. That means adding between 8,000 and 12,000 more Marines to the
service's roster, another potentially expensive personnel plus-up dependent on a
significant influx of new funding. Using the fiscal 2017 personnel costs as a
base, that could total more than $1 billion per year just in personnel costs,
before equipment and training are factored in.

But supporters say it's worth the cost.

"A Marine Corps of 36 battalions would enable an ability to handle a major
conflict and an ability to handle other taskings around the world, wherever this
may be," Dakota Wood, a retired Marine lieutenant colonel and senior fellow at
the Heritage Foundation.

By getting larger, the service would also be able to give Marines more time at
home between deployments, he said. Currently, 31,277 Marines are forward
deployed, about 17 percent of the service's active-duty force, officials said.
Traditionally, the Marine Corps has committed 15 battalions to conflicts such as
Vietnam and the Gulf War, Wood added.

"We say that the United States needs to have the ability to handle two wars,"
Wood said. "Not that we're saying that we're going to be in two wars
simultaneously, but if you only have a one-war force and you have to commit to
it, that's everything."

With reporting by Stephen Losey of Air Force Times, David Larter of Navy Times,
Meghann Myers of Army Times and Jeff Schogol of Marine Corps Times.

Leo Shane III covers Congress, Veterans Affairs and the White House for Military
Times. He can be reached at lshane@militarytimes.com

Andrew Tilghman is Military Times' Pentagon bureau chief. He can be reached at
atilghman@militarytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: alm


                    Copyright 2016 The Alamogordo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             904 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                     The Alamogordo Daily News (New Mexico)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Your job, not Facebook's, to vet fake news

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 460 words


As Abe Lincoln used to say: "Don't believe everything you read on Facebook."

It's an old joke worth remembering as people dissect what's being called
America's first social media election.

Disturbing trends emerged: Fake news, dark posts aimed at suppressing voter
turnout and troll attacks.

There's an ongoing debate over the actual impact of social media on the election
and on turnout. But there's no question that Americans don't fully understand
the power of social media.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is facing hard questions and offering to do more to
guard against fake news that makes money off the gullibility of Facebook users.

But the bottom line has to be the user: "Let the reader beware" should be
everyone's mantra.

Being a discerning consumer of information matters regardless of where you get
your news. A good journalist will tell you a single source is not enough.

Elections are about politics, but some of the fake news spread on Facebook was
more about money.

BuzzFeed News identified at least 140 sites pumping out fake political news
about the U.S. presidential race from one town in Macedonia.

The sites used Facebook to spread fake stories and generate traffic to their
websites, which translated into marketing revenue.

Pro-Trump stories were better clickbait, so that was the focus.

The sites had all-American sounding names like WorldPoliticus.com,
TrumpVision365.com, USConservativeToday.com, DonaldTrumpNews.co, and
USADailyPolitics.com.

"I started the site for an easy way to make money," a 17-year-old who runs a
site with four other people told BuzzFeed. Their site, called
Dailynewspolitic.com, is no longer functioning.

The false story that the pope endorsed Donald Trump and the false claim that
Mike Pence said Michelle Obama is the "most vulgar first lady we've ever had,"
were both from Macedonian sites.

Each generated a huge volume of shares and reactions on Facebook.

This made money for those apolitical teens in Macedonia. But it also may have
swayed Americans.

According to the Pew Research Center: "Overall, 20 percent of social media users
say they've modified their stance on a social or political issue because of
material they saw on social media, and 17 percent say social media has helped to
change their views about a specific political candidate."

That matters, too, when it comes to the use of "dark posts." These posts use
psychological profiles of Facebook users, which gleaned through preferences,
habits and those ubiquitous "quizzes" that tell you things like which Beatle you
would be.

Maintaining the integrity of this country's election process requires the
American people to show a healthy skepticism, double-check facts and remember
the profit motive behind those "free" social media services.

- The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: alm


                    Copyright 2016 The Alamogordo Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             905 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

STYLE;
The color purple tells the full tale

BYLINE: Adam Tschorn

SECTION: IMAGE; Features Desk; Part P; Part P; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 251 words


Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton delivered her Nov. 9 concession
speech in an ensemble so symbolic and so perfectly framed in the TV screen that
her message was loud and clear even if you couldn't find the volume knob.

Clinton took to the stage wearing a gray Ralph Lauren pantsuit with wide purple
peak lapels and a purple silk charmeuse blouse. Purple, of course, has become a
symbol of political unity (or at least balance) in a country that that uses "red
state" and "blue state" as shorthand for the political divisions between
Democrat and Republican. Used here as a contrasting color on a dark outfit --
black and gray being traditionally associated with mourning -- the message was
unmistakable: Her bid for the White House is over and the country needs to come
together, not as discrete camps of red or blue but as one wholly combined and
commingled purple country.

Purple, we should note, has also long been a color associated with royalty (back
in the day it was an exceedingly expensive color to make) and, liturgically
speaking (this from my sister-in-law the seminarian), it is the color associated
with Advent -- the period of reflection, waiting and preparation in many Western
churches in the run-up to Christ's birth.

The defeated Democratic candidate wasn't the only one to opt for a pop of purple
either; her husband, former President Bill Clinton, was color-coordinated (a
symbol of unity in and of itself) with a purple necktie.

--

adam.tschorn@latimes.com

Twitter: @ARTschorn

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HILLARY CLINTON'S suit punctuates her concession speech.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Olivier Douliery Abaca Press / TNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             906 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

BOOK REVIEW;
Publishers ponder Trump America

BYLINE: Michelle Dean, Dean is a writer in New York.

SECTION: SUNDAY CALENDAR; Calendar Desk; Part F; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 918 words

DATELINE:  NEW YORK


The morning after Donald Trump won the presidential election, Paul Bogaards
awoke with "a feeling of despair and dread or worse." The director of public
relations at Knopf Doubleday emailed that to his staff; he also told them that
if they needed to they could take the day off but that he was going to work.

"I believe all of us, in the work that we do, have a role to play in the
continuation of our great democracy," he wrote in that email. "It is good to
both question and challenge who and what we are and what we stand for as a
people and nation, and one of the best places to do that has always been within
the pages of a book and free press."

Bogaards' message about the power of books was meant to fend off a sense of
foreboding widely shared in New York literary and publishing circles. By and
large, people in publishing had expected Hillary Clinton to win the presidency.
Mainstream publishing "exists in a bubble, in the same way that the media exists
in a bubble," Bogaards told The Times.

"We are, for the most part, a bastion of the liberal elite," he added. That
Trump will be president of the United States has shaken that community to the
core.

The initial sense of despair was also shared by the small magazines and
publishers that consider themselves explicitly left wing and that might, in a
Trump-centric America, find themselves politically and culturally marginalized.

Johnny Temple, publisher of Akashic Books, happened to spend Nov. 9, the day
after the election, at a sales meeting for a distributor whose clients include
many leftist presses. He described a "surreal depression" among everyone in
attendance.

Temple is gritting his teeth and carrying on and not just with nonfiction that
touches on politics. "I feel like our literature by Caribbean authors is maybe
more important than it was a month ago," he said, adding that he thought more
diverse voices in books would be one way to heal the divide.

"Pretty grim" is how Dayna Tortorici, co-editor of the small leftist
intellectual magazine n+1, described the mood in its offices in Brooklyn. "We're
still reeling." n+1 had been in the middle of closing an issue when the results
came in late on Nov. 8 -- and stopped. Several articles were predicated on the
expectation of a Clinton presidency.

"It's impossible to say what the future holds, but we will continue to protect
the intellectual and political tradition that we see ourselves as a part of,"
Tortorici said. "But there's also a more urgent political imperative to resist
this and take care of each other."

Other magazines caught off guard by Clinton's loss were luckier. "For better or
for worse, we're lucky we're a quarterly," said Michael Kazin, editor in chief
of Dissent. The magazine's editorial board is holding an emergency meeting to
figure out how to approach the new state of America.

"As we know from election returns, our readership and our support is
concentrated in metropolitan areas and university towns," Kazin said. "I think
we should be having more discussions about how to reach progressives who don't
live in very progressive, very blue areas of the country."

Verso Books, a small press that explicitly identifies as Marxist, said it
certainly felt galvanized to an anti-Trump cause. "We went into mobilization
mode," said Anne Rumberger, the press's marketing manager.

On Nov. 9, Verso Books held a flash panel in its office, "Trump's America and
Anti-Fascist Organizing." The panelists were the sort of leftist activists and
intellectuals who make up Verso's core audience, writers for the Nation and
Jacobin. About 80 people attended, Rumberger said, but its reach was wider: A
livestream was viewed some 20,000 times.

The publisher also plans to put out a responsive e-book as soon as possible.
Rumberger said the press was focused on making its work more "accessible." Verso
wants to publish "political analysis that's accessible, that speaks to
[Americans] in this moment."

Print publishing moves at such a snail's pace that none of the magazines or
presses I spoke with has specific plans for new books or issues devoted to the
Trump phenomenon. But there were, already, less than a week after the election,
signs that certain titles in these publishers' back catalogs were becoming more
popular than in the past. John Oakes, co-founder of OR Books, said that already
his company had seen a rise in sales for its book "Beautiful Trouble: A Toolbox
for Revolution." It is an anthology describing the techniques of well-regarded
activists.

From Oakes' perspective, the new energy in the streets is encouraging. He cites
the large protests that have occurred in many major American cities since the
election. "I'm not saying it was worth the cost [of a Trump presidency]," he
said. Still, "there is that thrilling sense of mobilization."

Oakes added that older liberals will remember a similar sense of doom after
Ronald Reagan's landslide win in 1980. But he said he also remembers feeling
disconnected from other progressives then in a way he does not now. He believes
that there will be threats to the 1st Amendment, that sometimes leftist
publishing will be "a flea in the face of a monsoon."

"And I really don't want to sound heroic," Oakes said, "[but] we're absolutely
ready for the fight."

Mainstream publishing likely agrees with him on that point. "You move through
the world with vigilant optimism, that is the nature of publishing," Bogaards
said. "It has always armed people with ideas, and ideas lead to options, and
options lead to action."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DONALD TRUMP'S win has shaken publishing community.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Evan Vucci Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             907 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

Trump summons several possible Cabinet members;
Mitt Romney and Californian Michelle Rhee are among the latest interviewed.

BYLINE: Del Quentin Wilber

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 686 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday met with an eclectic mix of potential
Cabinet picks, including a high-profile Republican foe, as he launched a Twitter
storm boasting about settling a multimillion-dollar lawsuit and criticizing a
cast member of a hit Broadway musical for speaking from the stage to his vice
president-elect about "American values."

When not on Twitter, Trump spent the afternoon at his golf club in Bedminster,
N.J., where he met with former GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who is
being considered for secretary of State, and others in the running for top
administration posts.

Among job candidates getting face time with Trump was Michelle Rhee, a
California education activist and nemesis of teachers unions, who is among those
being considered for education secretary.

The meetings are scheduled to continue Sunday.

The most anticipated sit-down involved Romney, who during the campaign was
sharply critical of Trump's character, fitness for office and policy positions.
The former Massachusetts governor shook hands with the president-elect when he
arrived at Trump National Golf Club and told reporters 90 minutes later that the
pair spoke about U.S. interests around the globe.

"We discussed those areas, and exchanged our views on those topics -- a very
thorough and in-depth discussion in the time we had," Romney told reporters upon
leaving the golf club. "And I appreciate the chance to speak with the
president-elect, and I look forward to the coming administration and the things
that it's going to be doing."

Trump also met with Rhee, presumably to discuss education issues. She was the
controversial chancellor of public schools in Washington and now lives in
Sacramento, where her husband, former basketball star Kevin Johnson, is mayor.
Rhee declined to speak to reporters as she left the club.

Also on Trump's dance card for the day was retired Gen. James Mattis, a former
war commander nicknamed "Mad Dog Mattis" who has been critical of some Obama
administration policies and is being considered to lead the Pentagon.

Patrick Soon-Shiong, who made his fortune developing an anti-cancer drug, also
met with Trump. Soon-Shiong, a vice chairman of The Times' parent company,
Tronc, has been involved in Vice President Joe Biden's cancer "moonshot"
initiative to accelerate efforts to find cures.

The meetings were designed to highlight efforts "to pull in diverse ideas and
different perspectives as we form this administration," said Trump spokesman
Jason Miller.

Trump, however, started the day off on a different note -- by sparking a feud on
social media over what happened when his vice president-elect attended the
critically acclaimed Broadway musical "Hamilton." As Mike Pence was settling
into his seat Friday night at the Richard Rodgers Theatre in New York, he was
both cheered and loudly jeered by the audience. After the show, cast member
Brandon Victor Dixon addressed Pence from the stage.

Pence left the auditorium before Dixon finished, but reportedly heard all the
remarks over speakers in the hallway. Trump didn't appreciate Dixon's speech.

"Our wonderful future V.P. Mike Pence was harassed last night at the theater by
the cast of Hamilton, cameras blazing. This should not happen!" Trump tweeted.
"The Theater must always be a safe and special place. The cast of Hamilton was
very rude last night to a very good man, Mike Pence. Apologize!"

Dixon responded on Twitter: "conversation is not harassment sir."

Trump also tweeted in the morning to brag about settling fraud claims aimed at
his defunct "university." A day earlier, Trump had settled two class-action
lawsuits filed in San Diego and a third suit brought by the New York state
attorney general for $25 million, something he had repeatedly said he would
never do.

"I settled the Trump University lawsuit for a small fraction of the potential
award because as President I have to focus on our country," Trump tweeted. "The
ONLY bad thing about winning the Presidency is that I did not have the time to
go through a long but winning trial on Trump U. Too bad!"

--

del.wilber@latimes.com

Twitter: @delwilber

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             908 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
Pelosi may be in fight for post;
House Democratic leader faces a possible challenge from Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio.

BYLINE: Sarah D. Wire

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 325 words


With Democrats still reeling from the presidential election, House Democratic
leader Nancy Pelosi has agreed to a request to move the Democratic Caucus'
leadership election until after Thanksgiving.

Pelosi, a Californian who has led House Democrats for more than 16 years,
including two terms as the first female House speaker, is facing a possible
challenge from Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio, who told Politico he is considering a bid.

Democrats won only six new seats Nov. 8, after months of predictions that ranged
from a large Democratic win to a significant narrowing of the Republicans'
majority in the House.

Coupled with losing the presidency because some traditionally blue Rust Belt
states turned red, some on Capitol Hill are saying privately that it's time for
new leadership that hails from the center of the country.

The leadership election date has been moved back and forth a few times. At one
point, uncontested races were scheduled for Nov. 17, while the contested races
-- such as the Democratic Caucus vice chairman race between two California
members -- would have been held after Thanksgiving break.

With Pelosi's announcement last week, all of the Democrats' leadership elections
will be held Nov. 30.

In their first meeting since the election, Pelosi told fellow Democrats that she
doesn't have a preference for when the election is held, but that the caucus
needs to present a united front to Republicans, and soon.

"I do believe that time is important on this subject -- for us to go to the
table fully empowered to do what we need to do. From my standpoint, I don't care
when the election is. I do care that we have the strongest possible leadership
at the table, whoever that may be," she said, according to an aide in the room.

House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Bakersfield), took a dig last week at
Pelosi's potential contested election, saying that as long as she is leader,
Republicans will stay in power.

--

sarah.wire@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NANCY PELOSI has led House Democrats for more than 16 years.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Tom Williams CQ Roll Call

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             909 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                  Home Edition

Party leaders plot a future course;
State Democrats debate how to best reach out to Trump's supporters and defend
'California values.'

BYLINE: Phil Willon

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; bad desk code; Local Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

DATELINE:  SAN DIEGO


With a gloom hanging over them after the election of Donald Trump, leaders of
the California Democratic Party this weekend began plotting how to combat the
policies of the incoming Republican president, discussing how to reach out to
the millions of disaffected voters who supported the president-elect.

The two-day strategy session, held by the party's executive committee near
Mission Bay, was part therapy session and part pep rally.

Democrats commiserated about the implications of the GOP controlling the White
House and Congress, but also celebrated an election that handed the Democrats a
near iron grip on California.

Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota, who is campaigning to become the next chairman
of the Democratic National Committee, told a packed hotel ballroom of hundreds
of party loyalists that the grass-roots activism that turned California solidly
blue needs to be replicated in every county across the nation.

"We lost this election for three reasons: turnout, turnout and turnout," Ellison
said. "We're not seeing some sort of electrification of the conservative voter.
We are not getting our people out to vote."

Some of the state's most influential Democrats criticized the party for failing
to recognize the economic despair felt by Donald Trump's supporters across the
U.S., including in pockets of inland California. Others insisted the party had
strayed too far from its liberal base, losing young voters and other
progressives who put President Obama into the White House.

Environmental activist Tom Steyer, a San Francisco hedge fund billionaire who
had been thinking about a 2018 run for governor, said he may now forgo that
opportunity because of the threats posed by the Trump administration against
efforts to combat climate change and protect immigrants as well as other
Democratic policies that reflect "California values."

Instead, he said, he may plow his efforts into protecting California laws to
reduce carbon emissions and working to expand the state's progressive policies
across the nation.

"Donald Trump's election was a shocking mistake of historical proportions. His
dangerous ideas and policies threaten the freedom, the safety and the prosperity
of every American," Steyer said. "This is our moment. We will rise to the
occasion because there is no one else."

Former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, who announced a bid for governor
just after the Nov. 8 election, said many voters in the Rust Belt and America's
heartland -- as well as in California's Central Valley and northern areas --
flocked to Trump because they felt bypassed by the new economy and overlooked by
leaders in Washington and Sacramento.

"Yes, we're the sixth-largest economy in the world, and yes, we're growing jobs,
but we're not growing them everywhere. And a lot of people feel left out," he
said. "There are 3 million people [in California] who voted for Trump. We've got
to ask them why."

State Controller Betty T. Yee also warned fellow Democrats that, despite the
state party's successes on election day, they should not dismiss the swell of
support for Trump and other Republicans throughout the country, in large part
because many Americans are struggling financially.

"One of the immediate things we have to do is to be sure that the red wave does
not hit California. And it has the very potential to do that," Yee said. "There
are pockets of this state that have not been touched by government, by anyone
who wants to bring services to them."

Throughout most of the day, party leaders tried their best to highlight the
significant gains made by Democrats in California in the election. Democrats
secured a supermajority in the Assembly and are on the verge of doing the same
in the state Senate, which would give them the political power to raise taxes
and send proposals to the ballot without Republican support.

Dana Dean, president of the Solano County Board of Education, said Democrats
made history this election. Not only did the Democrats select the first woman
ever to be the presidential nominee of a major political party, but Hillary
Clinton also won the popular vote, she said.

"It's OK to take a moment and say, 'Whoa, that hurt,' " Dean said. "But we also
have to realize all that we accomplished."

Among the California Democratic Party leadership, there were strident calls for
action to block or undercut Trump's efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care
Act, deport millions of immigrants in the U.S. illegally and set aside
environmental protections.

Eric Bauman, chairman of the Los Angeles County Democratic Party, called on Gov.
Jerry Brown and the California Legislature to "scrub" the state Constitution,
laws and statutes to find any legal means available to "protect every
Californian" against new conservative policies of the Trump administration.

Bauman, who is running to be the next state party chairman, said California
Democrats must do everything they can to protect abortion rights, same-sex
marriage and "healthcare for every child, documented or not."

Kimberly Ellis of San Francisco, who also is in the running to be the next party
chair, dismissed concerns that the party did not do enough nationally to appeal
to voters won over by Trump, saying "that's not the solution to our long-term
problem."

Ellis, executive director of Emerge California, an organization dedicated to
increasing the number of Democratic women in elected office, said that instead
the party should focus on addressing groups she said are threatened the most by
a Trump administration: women, people of color, Muslims, the LGBT community and
young voters.

"The Democratic Party, here in California and across the nation, has a lot of
work to do," Ellis said.

--

phil.willon@latimes.com

Twitter: @philwillon

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             910 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                  Home Edition

Separation of business and state;
Pence pledges Trump will untangle holdings from the presidency. The search to
fill Cabinet continues.

BYLINE: Del Quentin Wilber, David Lauter

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


As President-elect Donald Trump continued the work of forming his new
administration Sunday, aides struggled with some of the baggage he carries with
him -- especially how to separate his business interests from government and the
inflammatory rhetoric about Muslims that marked his campaign.

Trump met with a series of men -- and one woman -- who may be under
consideration for high-level appointments.

Among them were campaign loyalists including Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New
York mayor, and Chris Christie, the governor of New Jersey, but also some
outsiders, such as Jonathan Gray, a Wall Street executive and prominent
Democratic donor, and Robert Johnson, the founder of the Black Entertainment
Television cable network.

"We've made a couple of deals," the president-elect said late in the day to
reporters waiting at his golf resort in Bedminster, N.J., indicating that
further Cabinet announcements could come soon.

Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), a member of the House GOP leadership, was
the only woman on Sunday's list, which also included Ari Emanuel, the prominent
Hollywood agent and brother of President Obama's former White House chief of
staff, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel.

"Great guy. Great friend of mine," Trump said.

While busy with his transition, the president-elect has found time recently for
other meetings, including one with three investors from India who are partners
with him in a luxury complex outside Mumbai.

A spokesperson for Trump insisted that the meeting, first reported by the New
York Times, was just a courtesy call, but it renewed questions about how Trump
could avoid conflicts of interest while retaining an ownership stake in his
far-flung network of businesses.

Vice President-elect Mike Pence insisted in a television interview Sunday that
Trump would "create the proper separation."

In an interview with "Fox News Sunday," Pence said lawyers and experts were
working on how to successfully untangle Trump's holdings from the presidency.

"I'm very confident working with the best legal minds in the country that the
president-elect and his family will create the proper separation from his
business going forward," Pence told host Chris Wallace.

Trump has said he will allow his adult children to run his business ventures;
government watchdogs have said he should divest his holdings or set up a blind
trust.

Among the potential problems: Trump's company has operations in other countries,
often in connection with foreign governments that could steer money toward his
family in an effort to influence his decisions.

In addition to the meeting with the Indian business executives, Trump and his
family came under criticism when his daughter Ivanka attended the
president-elect's first face-to-face meeting with a foreign head of government,
the prime minister of Japan.

Her jewelry company also caused a stir by sending an email to reporters
featuring a photograph of the $10,000 bracelet she wore during a postelection
television interview with her father.

At a news conference in Lima, Peru, where he was winding up a summit of leaders
from Asia and the Pacific, President Obama pointedly noted that his
administration had managed to go eight years without a major ethics scandal
because White House lawyers had insisted that he and his aides "not just meet
the letter of the law."

Obama said he had advised Trump to appoint a strong White House counsel who
would insist on similar care.

While Trump aides continued to deal with questions about potential conflicts,
they also faced controversy over some of their remarks about Islam.

Reince Priebus, Trump's designee to be the White House chief of staff, defended
remarks made by retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn, Trump's national security
advisor, that criticized Islam.

"Clearly there are some aspects of that faith that are problematic," Priebus
said during an interview on ABC's "This Week."

Asked about Flynn's statement that Islam was a political ideology masked behind
a religion, Priebus said that "phrasing can always be done differently."

But he praised Flynn as "an unbelievably gifted, smart person" who has Trump's
confidence.

In an interview on NBC's "Meet the Press," Priebus said that Trump believes that
"no faith in and of itself should be judged as a whole. But there are some
people in countries abroad that ... need to be prevented from coming into this
country."

Asked about Trump's suggestion earlier in the campaign year that Muslims might
be required to register with government officials, Priebus avoided a clear
answer.

"I'm not going to rule out anything. But, but I wouldn't -- we're not going to
have a registry based on a religion," he said. "But what I think what we're
trying to do is say that there are some people, certainly not all people ...
there are some people that are radicalized, and there are some people that have
to be prevented from coming into this country."

The country's largest Muslim advocacy group condemned the remarks as examples of
Islamophobia.

"Our nation is not served by the denigration of Islam or by the introduction of
ineffective and discriminatory policies targeting Muslims," said Robert McCaw,
government affairs director for the Council on American-Islamic Relations.

Trump's weekend in New Jersey has seen a steady parade of visitors, including
some past critics. On Saturday, Trump and Pence spoke with Mitt Romney, whom
Pence described as a potential secretary of State pick.

During the campaign, the 2012 GOP presidential candidate had been highly
critical of Trump's character and policies.

Pence said Romney was under "active consideration" to head the State Department.
"The president-elect was very grateful that Mitt Romney came in," he added,
describing the hourlong meeting as a "warm and substantive exchange" of ideas.

He and Trump also met with retired Marine Gen. James Mattis, a former war
commander in Iraq and Afghanistan who has been critical of some Obama
administration policies and has the nickname "Mad Dog Mattis." He is being
considered to lead the Pentagon as Defense secretary.

Trump tweeted Sunday that Mattis "was very impressive yesterday. A true
General's General!"

In his interview with Fox News, Pence also addressed the controversy surrounding
his attendance at the hit Broadway show "Hamilton." He was cheered and jeered as
he entered the theater Friday, and after the performance, the actor playing
Aaron Burr gave a brief speech about American values directed at Pence.

Trump took to Twitter the next day -- and again Sunday -- to chastise the show's
cast and demand an apology.

The dispute flew across social media over the weekend, sparking the hashtag
#boycotthamilton.

Trump's tweets appeared to continue a pattern he established in the campaign in
which he would use Twitter to change the subject away from headlines that were
potentially damaging.

His tweets about Hamilton diverted at least some attention from the criticism of
his naming of Stephen K. Bannon to be a senior White House official and the $25
million he agreed to pay to settle claims that his Trump University real estate
seminars had defrauded students.

Pence, also following a pattern from the campaign, took a more conciliatory
line. He said he had heard the remarks by actor Brandon Victor Dixon and was not
offended by them.

A self-described history buff, Pence said he enjoyed the musical.

"It is a great, great show," he said, calling it an "incredible production" by
"incredibly talented people."

"It was a real joy to be there," he added.

--

del.wilber@latimes.com

Twitter: @delwilber

david.lauter@latimes.com

Twitter: @DavidLauter

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JAMES MATTIS is being considered as Defense secretary.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Carolyn Kaster Associated Press PHOTO: RETIRED LT. GEN. Michael
Flynn, right, national security advisor to President-elect Donald Trump, is
under fire for calling Islam a political ideology masked behind a religion. A
Trump aide came to his defense.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Eduardo Munoz Alvarez AFP/Getty
Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Lead story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             911 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                  Home Edition

Party wrestles with its future;
Since Clinton's loss to Trump, Democrats are searching for a way out of the
political wilderness.

BYLINE: Mark Z. Barabak

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1216 words


When Hillary Clinton lost her White House bid, it was a jagged exclamation mark
punctuating several painful years for Democrats.

Come January, the party will have at least 11 fewer U.S. senators, 63 fewer
House seats and perhaps a dozen fewer governors than in 2009, during President
Obama's first year in office. Nationally, there will be about 900 fewer
Democratic state lawmakers.

By some benchmarks -- the control of state capitols, for instance -- the
Democratic Party is in worse shape than it has been in more than a century.

But Democrats, after several periods of exile from the White House, are no
strangers to the political wilderness -- or fractious infighting over how to
find their way back.

The most immediate battle is for leadership of the Democratic National
Committee. The contest will pit Washington insiders against Beltway outsiders,
liberal backers of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders against more centrist Clinton
holdovers, and advocates of a full-time chairman versus those who feel it is
fine to hold another job as well -- serving in Congress, for instance.

Several contestants have emerged, including Howard Dean, the former Vermont
governor who ran the national party in the run-up to Obama's 2008 election, and
Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota, a favorite of Sanders and the incoming Senate
Democratic leader, Charles E. Schumer of New York.

The vote will take place sometime after President-elect Donald Trump's
inauguration Jan. 20.

The broader fight grows out of Clinton's stunning defeat. (Few will very loudly
criticize Obama for having failed to strengthen the party or lay down a firmer
foundation.)

Instead of expanding the political map against Trump into the GOP-leaning
reaches of Arizona and Georgia, Democrats are reckoning with the loss of
Michigan and Pennsylvania, states they won in the last six elections, and
Wisconsin, which had not voted for a Republican for president since 1984.

"How does the party come back? That's the million-dollar question," said Jill
Hanauer, a longtime Democratic strategist who has focused on expanding the Obama
coalition of minorities and young voters into swing and red-leaning states. "If
anyone thinks they can answer that today, don't listen. It's just begun."

The last time the party faced such deep existential angst, after three straight
losing presidential campaigns, Democrats shifted their philosophical course and
moved closer to the middle, nudged by a fresh-faced Arkansas governor named Bill
Clinton.

Paul Begala, who helped Clinton win the White House in 1992 and worked this year
for a political action committee backing his wife for president, acknowledged it
was time for a new set of Democratic leaders to emerge.

That said, he suggested the party's message should be a throwback to the one
that helped elect Bill Clinton in a time of voter frustration: "It's still the
economy, stupid," Begala said.

"If Democrats can't speak to the pain of poor people and working-class people"
-- whether in Appalachia or the inner cities -- "then we don't deserve to be a
party," Begala said.

Few in the party would disagree. But every campaign requires an allocation of
limited time and money, and much of the unfolding debate will focus on where
Democrats need to devote their energy and resources: winning back disaffected
voters, especially white members of the working class, or coaxing new ones --
blacks, Latinos and millennials -- to the polls.

In Missouri, Democrat Jason Kander came within 3 points of unseating Republican
U.S. Sen. Roy Blunt in a state Trump carried by 19%. He did so by performing
well in party strongholds like Kansas City and St. Louis but also, Kander said,
by campaigning hard in rural areas.

"If a voter thinks you're not focused on them, you're not going to get their
vote," he said.

But Cornell Belcher, a Democratic pollster who specializes in African American
voters, warned against focusing too much on the proverbial angry white male who
helped deliver Trump's upset victory.

"It's hard for me, making a cold calculation, to understand why we spend even
more money and even more effort going after an increasingly resistant, shrinking
marketplace," Belcher said. "If we expand the electorate, we have a majority.
That's where the future is."

Obama, in a news conference Sunday night after wrapping up an international
summit in Peru, waded into the debate.

"Doing better involves us working at the grass roots, not ceding territory,
going out into areas where right now we may not stand a chance of winning," he
said. "A strategy that is just micro-targeting particular, discrete groups in a
Democratic coalition sometimes will win you elections, but it's not going to win
you the broad mandate you need," he said.

Beyond the ideological argument, Democrats are also talking about process. After
past setbacks, the party overhauled its presidential nominating system and
changed the political calendar, ideas being floated once more.

Supporters of Sanders and former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, who ran against
Clinton in the primaries, are still furious at the favoritism shown by the
Democratic National Committee and insist on reducing the influence of
superdelegates -- elected leaders and others who hold significant sway in
choosing the nominee.

"There is no doubt the Democratic Party would have been stronger in 2016 if we
had a field of seven to 10 strong candidates -- senators, governors, mayors --
who were actively debating the future of our country," said Lis Smith, who
helped manage O'Malley's campaign. "We need to open up the whole party, not make
this a cabal of insiders who are nostalgic for names from the past."

Reformers also want more open primaries, allowing independents and others to
vote for the Democratic nominee, the way they can in November.

The idea, advocates say, is to better test the party's eventual nominee.

"We need to replicate the battlefield of the general election as closely as
possible and nominate candidates who demonstrate they can win in such an
environment," said Tad Devine, a senior campaign advisor to Sanders, who beat
Clinton in Michigan and Wisconsin.

In the past, tinkering with the nominating process hasn't always produced the
hoped-for outcome.

In 1972, an effort to give voters greater say resulted in the nomination of
George McGovern, who was buried in President Nixon's reelection landslide.

After another Republican rout in 1984, when President Reagan carried 49 states,
Democrats sought to give party centrists greater influence by creating "Super
Tuesday," a day of balloting heavily concentrated in conservative-leaning
Southern states. Despite that, the party ended up with Michael Dukakis, a
northeastern liberal, as their nominee.

As for who runs for president in 2020, there are plenty of prospects but none
rises to immediate advantage.

Four years before winning the White House, Obama was a state senator from the
South Side of Chicago who gained notice for delivering an uplifting speech at
the Democrats' 2004 convention. He ran in 2008 as a long shot against the heavy
favorite, then-New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton.

So the next president, if a Democrat, could well be someone few today can
imagine; even on election day, some of those working hardest for Trump never
thought he could pull it off.

--

mark.barabak@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CONTENDERS to lead the Democratic National Committee include
former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean, top, and Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota.
PHOTOGRAPHER: J. Scott Applewhite Associated Press PHOTO: CONTENDERS to lead the
Democratic National Committee include former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean, top, and
Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota.  PHOTOGRAPHER:J. Scott Applewhite Associated
Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             912 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

Poets are all a twitter about Trump;
It stands to rhyme and reason that he'd inspire verse in the 2016 political
season.

BYLINE: Jeffrey Fleishman

SECTION: CALENDAR; Calendar Desk; Part E; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 776 words


Hercules inspired poems. Ajax too. Walt Whitman celebrated himself, Shakespeare
compared thee to a summer's day, and T.S. Eliot knew that April was the cruelest
month. But poets in our discomfiting age are riffing on President-elect Donald
Trump, a man whose tax breaks and Twitter feeds contain multitudes.

Some bards have used Trump's own words -- their staccato blend of repetition and
emphasis -- to capture his singular essence and rhythms. Others have written
odes of glee, rage, satire and bewilderment. They vary in talent and breadth and
have titles like "Trumpety Trump," "Trump's War," "Sympathy" and "Wig Wearing
Llama (10W)." The poem "Donald Trump" by Matt Shade goes like this:

"Lemme tell ya, these people love me.

And I have a lot of money.

A LOT of money.

In fact, I know a lot about money

And a lot about other things as well.

Lemme tell you, I know a lot of things.

Just trust me on this one."

The poem appears on Hello Poetry, a website for wide-ranging verse that has more
than 1,100 poems pop up under the name Trump. The musings are written in haiku,
free verse, limerick and rhyme. A number appear to have no structure at all, as
if powerful emotions, mostly of the anti-Trump variety, burst forth into words.

It is no surprise that Trump has roused poets or those who see themselves as
poets. Verse, after all, is a distillation of the ephemeral and the eternal, a
need for language to summon image and find meaning.

Trump's campaign and defeat of Hillary Clinton exposed stark divisions and
raised disquieting questions about the nation's char- acter, soul and identity,
much like the Trojan War for Homer, Richard III for Shakespeare and the horrors
of World War I for Wilfred Owen.

"What you're getting these days is knee-jerk reactions," said Michael Brown,
co-editor of Off the Coast, an international poetry journal published in Maine.
"Poets have a voice, and that's what they use. But with the popularity of poetry
in the world and in America what you have to figure is that not everyone is a
great poet."

Brown said much of the verse that responds quickly to current events is not very
good. It lacks the distance and time to put landmark moments into perspective.

"They're pushing hot-button issues," he said of many poets posting these days to
websites or reading at open mic nights. "They're trying to plug those things
into a poem to get people to read it."

He added that his journal will publish in its next edition a more textured poem
that's "a metaphorical conversation ... thinly veiled and aimed at Trump."

Some of the Trump poems allude to history, others to rough moments ahead; at
least one conjures a duck, another "orange trolls."

In the poem "Comb-over for Herr Trump," Francie Lynch writes:

"Donald has a comb-over.

Hitler, a funny moustache.

Hair Donald?

Heil Hitler!"

Trump does have his supporters: "Call me a chump/But I'm with Trump."

While Trump has inspired poetry, his own words carry a unique beat and
syncopation that form a verse that, at least to his supporters, soothes in its
timbre and disarms in its simplicity. His sentences can go rat-a-tat, but they
also circle back and double down, looping like threads in the wind.

In his book "Bard of the Deal," humorist and writer Hart Seely has collected
"the first ever treasury of Trumpian verse -- poems culled from a towering pile
of speeches, interviews, utterances and tweets that has risen over the last 30
years."

In the poem "Death," featured in Bard, Trump offers a dark view of life:

"Sad. Horrible Statement.

I hate to say it, but I say it,

You know, because it's true.

Life is what you do while you wait to die."

Verse by renowned poets has also been tapped to lend substance and insight into
racism, division and other ills that have shaken the nation in recent months.
"Differences of Opinion," a 2006 work by British poet Wendy Cope, was popular
online after Trump's election.

The verse is about an obstinate man spouting off falsehoods to a woman who
cannot make him see the truth.

"He tells her that the earth is flat --

He knows the facts, and that is that.

In altercations fierce and long

She tries her best to prove him wrong.

But he has learned to argue well.

He calls her arguments unsound

And often asks her not to yell.

She cannot win. He stands his ground.

The planet goes on being round."

The scribbling and keyboard pecking are likely to go on for a while as the
president-elect tweets, Washington bristles and inauguration day approaches. A
short poem by Ariel Ferguson published after the election on Hello Poetry is of
the chin-up variety:

" And I think

Being happy in spite of it all

Is the most revolutionary thing you can do."

--

jeffrey.fleishman@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             913 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

Garcetti doubles down against Trump;
Cutting U.S. funds to L.A. over immigration stance would be a 'mistake,' mayor
says.

BYLINE: Dakota Smith

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 470 words


Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti said Monday that President-elect Donald Trump
would be making a "mistake" if his administration cuts federal funding to L.A.
over the city's immigration stance.

"Anything that would take away federal aid would cause social, economic and
security problems," Garcetti said. "I am hoping we can have this conversation
separate and without threats."

Reince Priebus, Trump's designee to be the White House chief of staff, told CNN
on Sunday that the Trump administration is exploring cutting off federal money
to so-called sanctuary cities.

Trump vowed during the election to punish such municipalities for their lenient
policies toward illegal immigration. Los Angeles is slated to receive about $500
million this fiscal year directly from the federal government to pay for
services such as port security and homeless shelters.

That figure doesn't include federal money that flows to the Los Angeles Homeless
Services Authority, a joint city-county agency. The agency will receive about
$23 million in federal Housing and Urban Development funds this fiscal year.

L.A. police and city leaders have vocally protested any immigration crackdown
under Trump, with both Garcetti and LAPD Chief Charlie Beck saying in the last
week that police won't change their enforcement policies.

CNN's Jake Tapper asked Priebus on "State of the Union" whether Trump would cut
federal funding to Los Angeles given the city's position.

Priebus said he personally feels funding shouldn't flow to sanctuary cities, but
the issue is open to negotiation.

"The idea that a city would decide to ignore federal law and then want the
federal government to help them anyway is an inconsistent position for those
local governments to continue to engage in," Priebus said.

Garcetti was asked about Priebus' comments Monday at a Boyle Heights event with
high school students centered on the issue of deportation fears under Trump.

"We participate all the time with our federal immigration authorities and we
will continue to do so," he said.

Garcetti also suggested that programs targeting clean air and homeless funding
may be jeopardized if federal money no longer comes in. Federal funds pay for
homeland security, too, he added.

"We have a mutual interest in fighting terrorism," Garcetti said.

Los Angeles County is home to more than 1 million of the estimated 11 million
immigrants in the country without legal status.

Beck said last week he would not change the LAPD's stance on immigration
enforcement, despite Trump's pledge to toughen federal immigration laws and
deport millions of people upon taking office.

Both Beck and Garcetti have said the LAPD will continue to enforce Special Order
40, which bars officers from contacting someone solely to determine their
immigration status.

--

dakota.smith@latimes.com

Twitter: @dakotacdsmith

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SYDNEY ROSS, 16, standing next to Eric Garcetti, and Gabriel
Onate, 16, who are students at Francisco Bravo Medical Magnet High School,
listen as the L.A. mayor speaks Monday at an event in Boyle Heights.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Patrick T. Fallon For The Times PHOTO: "WE HAVE a mutual interest
in fighting terrorism," L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti said Monday.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Patrick T. Fallon For The Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             914 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

Obamacare repeal could spell turmoil;
Chaos marked the health law's rollout, and some fear the GOP's plans may inflict
more pain.

BYLINE: Noam N. Levey

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


In the summer of 2013, as state and federal officials readied new insurance
marketplaces created through the Affordable Care Act, millions of Americans
started getting disquieting notices from their insurers.

Health plans were being canceled because they didn't comply with the law, often
called Obamacare.

Some 4 million people were ultimately told they would lose their plans. The
ensuing outrage sparked a political firestorm, seriously eroded public
confidence in Obamacare and forced an embarrassed President Obama to change
federal regulations so people could keep their coverage.

Yet that tumultuous episode could be dwarfed by what President-elect Donald
Trump's administration and its congressional allies unleash beginning next year.
They not only plan to repeal the law but are contemplating changes that are
significantly more far-reaching and could disrupt insurance coverage for many
more Americans than did the original law.

"There is significant risk of chaos," said Ian Morrison, a healthcare consultant
who advises health systems nationwide. "If they don't get this right, a lot of
people will suffer."

Avoiding major instability has become a central focus for senior Republicans
scrambling to plot a healthcare strategy since the party's sweeping election
victories, according to GOP lawmakers, current and former congressional staff
members and health industry officials.

But it won't be easy, given the sheer number of people who may be affected.

About 11 million Americans, most of whom get government subsidies to offset
their insurance premiums, depend on insurance marketplaces created by the health
law that Republicans have proposed eliminating.

Additionally, approximately 75 million poor Americans are enrolled in either the
Children's Health Insurance Program or Medicaid, which would be scaled back in
most GOP health plans.

House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) has indicated he also wants to overhaul
Medicare, which provides coverage to more than 50 million elderly and disabled
Americans.

"Any time a party has been out of power ... there is an instinct to try to do
everything as rapidly as possible and to do it in a way that satisfies their
appetite for change," said former Utah Gov. Mike Leavitt, who served as Health
and Human Services secretary under President George W. Bush.

"There is a real need here not to overreach and not to move too fast," Leavitt
cautioned.

Yet across the country, hospitals, doctors, insurers and others are deeply
anxious.

"Perhaps Congress can lead us in a direction where we fix the things that are
wrong with the ACA, because there are many, and preserve what is good," said
Sheryl Skolnick, research director at investment bank Mizuho Securities USA.
"From where I sit, I think it's a very risky bet."

Several senior Republican senators in recent days have emphasized that they want
to avoid turmoil.

"Congress will make sure that the transition is a smooth one for Americans,"
said Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), who leads the Senate Republican Policy
Committee. "People have already faced too much disruption in their healthcare
due to Obamacare."

To reduce potential chaos, congressional Republicans have been discussing a
multistep, multiyear process for repealing and replacing the health law.

They would vote early next year on legislation that would scrap large parts of
the law, including the unpopular insurance mandate and funding for insurance
subsidies and for Medicaid expansions that 31 states have enacted.

That legislation would delay the effective date of the repeal for a year or two,
however, giving Republicans time to develop an alternative.

Although this "repeal and delay" strategy may not jeopardize coverage
immediately for Americans who gained it through the health law, it could
destabilize insurance marketplaces.

Many insurers in the marketplaces have been losing money, in large part because
consumers who signed up for coverage were sicker than anticipated.

Insurers remained in hope that the marketplaces would be stabilized by the next
administration. But if the marketplaces are being eliminated, many insurers
would probably reevaluate, according to industry officials and healthcare
experts.

If insurers walk away, millions of consumers would be forced to switch plans or
pay big premium increases, reprising the kind of turmoil that occurred in 2013,
but potentially on a larger scale.

Although consumer frustration with premiums and other problems has intensified
this year, polls show most marketplace users are satisfied. More than two-thirds
rated their coverage as "excellent" or "good" in a nationwide survey this year
by the nonprofit Kaiser Family Foundation.

"The markets already were somewhat fragile," said Larry Levitt, senior vice
president of the foundation. "It was likely going to take a concerted effort ...
to put marketplaces in many states on firmer footing."

The Trump administration could take steps to solidify the marketplaces in the
short term, which would probably include bolstering a controversial program to
pay insurers that sustained heavy losses on the marketplaces.

But that program is a political lightning rod for Republicans, who accused the
Obama administration of giving a bailout to insurance companies.

Congressional Republicans have also attacked the current administration for
providing financial assistance to low-income marketplace consumers to help them
pay deductibles and co-pays, arguing that the money was not appropriated by
Congress.

If the Trump administration stops those payments, as some conservatives have
advocated, many more insurers would probably cancel their health plans.

Whether they would return will depend on what kind of replacement Republicans
develop.

GOP officials have expressed confidence that plans they have developed in recent
years, including a 37-page blueprint that House Republicans released this
summer, give them a strong foundation for enacting a replacement.

But that plan -- which includes a Medicare overhaul that would shift future
beneficiaries into a new system that gives them vouchers to shop for private
health plans -- would probably extend the disruptions years further.

Trump transition officials have not detailed any of the new administration's
healthcare plans.

"This is an area that is very fraught and very difficult because the policy is
complicated," said Dean Rosen, who served as healthcare advisor to former Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn).

"It is one thing when you are painting on a blank canvas. It is another when you
are taking down someone's version of the Mona Lisa and trying to put up
something that you think is better."

--

noam.levey@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOUSE SPEAKER Paul D. Ryan wants to repeal Obamacare and
overhaul Medicare.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Andrew Harnik Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Lead story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             915 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

TRUMP SETS AN AGENDA FOR HIS 1ST DAY;
His list of priorities doesn't include border wall or Muslim ban.

BYLINE: Noah Bierman, Tracy Wilkinson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


President-elect Donald Trump spent more than a year promising to build a wall,
repeal Obamacare and rescind President Obama's deportation protections for some
immigrants in the U.S. illegally.

But on Monday, in his first extensive public comments since winning the
election, Trump mentioned none of those issues. Nor did he talk about
withdrawing from the North American Free Trade Agreement, banning Muslims from
entering the country or ending the Syrian refugee program, some of his other
stock campaign pledges.

Trump instead made five more modest promises for his first day in office during
a nearly three-minute video. It appeared to be an effort to soften his message
while he establishes an inner circle of hard-liners, including Stephen K.
Bannon, a top advisor who ran a website that has promoted white nationalist
ideology.

In the video, Trump promised to withdraw from the massive Trans-Pacific
Partnership trade deal, "a potential disaster for our country," and instead
pursue bilateral agreements with some of the countries involved.

He also pledged to lift restrictions on energy production, including shale and
coal, to implement a rule that any new government regulation must be accompanied
by removing two on the books, and to instruct his Joint Chiefs of Staff to
develop a new cybersecurity plan. His only discussion of immigration involved
the legal kind -- a crackdown on visa fraud.

"My agenda will be based on a simple core principle: putting America first," he
said. "Whether it's producing steel-building cars or curing disease, I want the
next generation of production and innovation to happen right here on our great
homeland -- America."

Trump also said his previously announced ethics rules -- barring those who work
in his administration from lobbying for five years after they leave the
government and from lobbying for foreign governments for life -- would take
effect as soon as he is inaugurated.

Trump vowed in the video to release more plans in the days ahead.

"These are some of our Day One executive actions," spokesman Jason Miller said
in an email. "By no means is it everything he'll work on Day One or after that
-- many additional good things to come."

Trump's first installment, though, seemed especially tailored to the voters in
the former Industrial Belt who helped him seize his surprise victory.

His focus on legal immigration was particularly striking and in line with the
views of Alabama Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions, his pick for attorney general
and one of Trump's earliest supporters in Washington. Sessions has been a critic
of the visa system, arguing that work visas, in particular, allow foreign
workers to displace Americans. He has also sponsored a bill that would end the
visa lottery that grants tens of thousands of green cards a year.

Trump did not discuss plans to deport millions of immigrants, as he frequently
did on the campaign trail. But the omissions were far from a declaration of a
new agenda and left open the possibility that Trump may be recognizing the
difficulty of achieving all of his ambitions immediately and trying to delay
some of his most divisive proposals.

"There's nothing he can really do about the wall on Day One," said Jack Pitney,
a political science professor at Claremont McKenna College, referring to
building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. "He's probably focusing on narrow,
achievable goals that won't cause too much controversy before Thanksgiving.
There will be plenty of trouble down the line."

Trump has yet to give a post-election news conference laying out his agenda or
answering questions about his transition, which gives added weight to the video.
He also addressed criticisms about the disorganized nature of the transition,
insisting it has gone "very smoothly, efficiently and effectively."

The video came amid news reports that fueled more uncertainty over how Trump
will avoid conflicts of interest in his worldwide business ties, with new
questions arising Monday over a conversation Trump had last week with Argentine
President Mauricio Macri.

During a congratulatory call, Trump asked for help with permitting a
construction project he is building in Buenos Aires, an Argentine journalist
said.

Trump's transition staff and the Argentine government both denied the project
was discussed. However, Macri's spokesman, Ivan Pavlovsky, said in a statement
that the two men "briefly mentioned the personal relationship they have had for
years," alluding to their business ties, which date back to the 1980s.

Trump's transition team did not respond to a request for a transcript or summary
of the call and have denied that Trump's businesses have created even a
perception of potential conflict.

But Trump's ongoing involvement in his companies raises the specter that he will
use his position to further his financial interests. And the problem will not go
away unless Trump puts a stronger firewall between his family and his business
during his presidency, ethics specialists say.

Even if Trump does not ask for it, foreign leaders may believe they are winning
influence with Trump by granting business favors to him or his children, who
Trump says will control his businesses while he is president.

"Private interest currying favor and buying influence with leaders of countries
by dealing with their children is a time-honored tradition in the world," said
Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a nonpartisan group.

Wertheimer called Trump "a massive walking conflict of interest" and said
questions surrounding his relationship with Macri would occur regularly unless
Trump divests his business empire completely and creates a truly blind trust
that does not involve his children, who are also key political advisors.

The issue dogged Trump before he was elected. He ran largely on an ethics
platform, saying Hillary Clinton and her husband had enriched themselves from
government service and exchanged access at the State Department for cash.

Trump has also promised to "drain the swamp," eliminating outside influence in
Washington.

Trump advisor Kelly-anne Conway scoffed Monday when asked how long Trump would
continue conducting business during the transition.

"Do you ask people how long they will play golf and do the transition?" she
said, an implicit dig at President Obama, whose rounds of golf are a frequent
target of conservative criticism. "Are you suggesting he is doing something
illegal? I already said he is not. But the presumption is that he is."

Conway said Trump had consulted on ethics with lawyers, accountants and
advisors. She said that his role as a businessman in transition to the highest
office marked "unprecedented times."

--

noah.bierman@latimes.com

tracy.wilkinson@latimes.com

Special correspondent Laura Tillman in Mexico City and Times staff writer Chris
Megerian contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PRESIDENT-ELECT Donald Trump used a three-minute video to
discuss his plans for his first day in the White House. He made five promises.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Trump Transition 2017 PHOTO: TRUMP'S call with Argentine leader
Mauricio Macri raised concerns about conflict of interest.  PHOTOGRAPHER:E.
Abramovich AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             916 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

WASTE DEBATE MIGHT NOT BE BURIED;
Washington changes could restart talks to have Nevada locale as a nuclear
repository.

BYLINE: Rob Nikolewski

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 864 words


Yucca Mountain is back on the bargaining table on Capitol Hill.

And if the nuclear waste repository in Nevada gets back on track -- and that's a
big "if," considering the controversial site has been debated for going on 40
years and six presidential administrations -- it could provide a destination for
the 3.6 million pounds of nuclear waste now beached at the San Onofre Nuclear
Generating Station.

"There will almost certainly be efforts to reintroduce legislation that would
restart the Yucca process," said David Victor, chairman of the Community
Engagement Panel, which acts as a liaison between the public and the operators
at San Onofre.

"What's interesting is this is not a normal left-right [political] issue."

Located about 100 miles northwest of Las Vegas, Yucca Mountain at one time was
determined to be the best site to deposit the nation's nuclear waste, which has
now reached more than 70,000 metric tons at some 120 sites across the country.

The site was slated to open in 2017. But Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.), who loathed
the idea of storing waste in his home state, became the Senate majority leader
after the 2006 elections.

During the 2008 presidential campaign, then-Sen. Barack Obama said Yucca
Mountain was "an expensive failure and should be abandoned." The Obama
administration cut off funding for Yucca Mountain in 2010.

The January retirement of Reid from the Senate and the arrival of the
administration of President-elect Donald Trump has led to speculation that Yucca
Mountain -- which has already cost taxpayers $9 billion to $15 billion -- could
be revived and re-funded.

Trump has not taken a position on Yucca Mountain, but last month during a
campaign stop in Nevada, he said he was "going to take a look at it."

A report from Bloomberg News last week cited two unidentified people familiar
with Trump's transition planning who said reopening Yucca Mountain is "being
actively discussed by advisors."

Rep. John Shimkus (R-Ill.), considered to be in line to become chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee, has long maintained that Yucca Mountain
represents "the fastest, best and most viable solution" for storing waste.

Should the Yucca Mountain debate return to the halls of Congress, Victor said
its best chance for survival would come if it is combined with another potential
nuclear waste solution: consolidated interim storage.

Under consolidated storage, sites would be built in isolated locations like the
desert where multiple plants could deposit their waste.

Democrats and Republicans -- many of them anxious to get waste shipped out of
their home states -- have introduced legislation to help clear the way for
consolidated storage.

One site in West Texas and another in eastern New Mexico have been mentioned as
potential destinations for San Onofre's waste and could open as early as the
2020s -- a short time period by nuclear waste timetables -- if they can clear a
series of daunting political and regulatory hurdles.

"I think you can get a bigger coalition by linking Yucca to consolidated
storage," said Victor, who is also a professor of international relations at UC
San Diego.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) echoed those remarks last week.

"We have tried year after year to get a pilot waste" program, Feinstein said at
a Senate subcommittee hearing. "We know there are people who want to build it, a
waste facility, because even if Yucca went ahead, Yucca would be filled."

Feinstein has co-sponsored nuclear waste legislation with two Republicans and
another Senate Democrat.

Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Vista) also has co-sponsored a bill to find alternative
sites for nuclear waste. The San Onofre nuclear plant is in Issa's congressional
district.

"Obviously we would love it if we had a permanent site, especially one that had
so much time and money spent on it," Issa said.

"But if Congress reopens the question, we shouldn't open it with a prejudice
that it must be good. And we shouldn't allow the prejudice that Harry Reid
always had that it must be bad. The in-between is putting together the proper
balance of pros and cons and have it fairly and scientifically reevaluated."

The issue is of particular importance to California, where more than 3,000 tons
of spent nuclear fuel is stranded.

Victor was quick to point out that efforts to reach a political solution on
Yucca Mountain could end up on the back burner as other policies promoted by the
Republican-controlled House of Representatives and Senate take center stage.

"There are going to be other things that are going to be much higher on their
list -- Obamacare, for one," Victor said. "Those are going to be very
complicated issues that could really suck the oxygen out of the legislative
process."

And Victor noted that even if a deal on nuclear waste is reached on Capitol
Hill, there is still a regulatory process to be navigated.

"Congress can't legislate Yucca to open," Victor said. "Congress can restart the
process of Yucca going through all the regulatory approvals, which it is nearly
done with, but not completely. That does not insulate Yucca from all sorts of
local problems and possible changes in administrations in the future."

--

rob.nikolewski@sduniontribune.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SAN ONOFRE nuclear plant waste could end up in Yucca Mountain if
the site is ever approved. Above, a steel tube used to store nuclear waste sits
empty outside the facility located about 100 miles northwest of Las Vegas.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Robert Gauthier Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             917 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

COMPANY TOWN;
NFL ratings perk up after election;
Dallas Cowboys' success could pull in viewers for the rest of the season.

BYLINE: Stephen Battaglio

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 551 words


There is no dancing in the end zone yet, but the NFL is seeing a post-election
day bump in its TV ratings.

The total Nielsen overnight ratings for NFL telecasts in Week 11 of the season
were up 3% compared with last year, the first time in the 2016 season that
viewing has increased. The rise follows the improved viewing in Week 10, in
which the decline the NFL had been seeing this fall had been cut significantly.

Through the first nine weeks, ratings had shown double-digit declines when
compared with the 2015 season. The most pronounced drops were in the network
prime-time games on Thursday, Sunday and Monday nights. Analysts have cited many
explanations, including boring matchups and cord cutting by consumers.

Then there was the election. The league and network executives believed
unprecedented interest in the presidential campaign was pulling viewers away and
were hopeful of a bounce back when it concluded.

"It's a little premature to take a victory lap or say whatever problems we were
examining a month ago have gone away, but there are some encouraging numbers out
there," said Mike Mulvihill, executive vice president for research, league
operations and strategy for Fox Sports.

In the two telecasts since election day, NBC's "NFL Sunday Night Football" has
seen its ratings improve compared with last year. Sunday's Washington Redskins
victory over the Green Bay Packers scored 18.7 million viewers, up 4% over last
year's Week 11 game. The nail-biting win by the Seattle Seahawks over the New
England Patriots on Nov. 13 was 13% better than last year's Week 10 game.

CBS had its best Sunday afternoon of NFL games this past weekend. Thanks to the
regional contests that included the resurgent Dallas Cowboys, the network
averaged a 10.2 household rating, up 20% from Week 11 in 2015.

The NFL is also seeing a boost from "Thursday Night Football" games on NBC. Last
year, the Thursday games in the second half of the season were shown on NFL
Network.

Aside from resolution of the 2016 race for the White House, the NFL is probably
being helped by the on-field narratives that have developed in recent weeks. The
season began without some of its biggest names, such as the retired Peyton
Manning. But casual fans are starting to recognize a new generation of stars
such as Dallas Cowboys rookie Dak Prescott and the Oakland Raiders' Derek Carr,
who is guiding his team to its first playoff run since 2003.

The Cowboys have emerged as a ratings powerhouse thanks to rookie Prescott's
ability to step in for the injured Tony Romo. The Cowboys gave Fox -- the only
network that hasn't seen a significant decline in its NFL ratings this year --
the most-watched NFL game of the season as 28.9 million viewers tuned in for the
team's 35-30 victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers on Nov. 13.

Having "America's Team" become a Super Bowl contender can be a major driver for
ratings for the rest of the season. The Cowboys have two prime-time games coming
up on NBC and a Monday night contest on ESPN.

"The good news for the league is that the Cowboy wealth is going to be spread on
every network," Mulvihill said. "The great news for us is we'll be the home of
their playoff run. We will share the wealth in the regular season but we'll own
that story in January and February."

--

stephen.battaglio@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DALLAS COWBOYS rookie quarterback Dak Prescott, shown here
against the Baltimore Ravens, has emerged as one of the NFL's new stars this
season. The Cowboys are considered a Super Bowl contender.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Jose
Yau Associated Press GRAPHIC: NFL ratings slump  CREDIT:Kyle Kim Los Angeles
Times

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Infographic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             918 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

In search of common ground;
In the wake of a divisive election, we should find a way to agree on where we
want to go as a nation.

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Editorial Desk; Part A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 432 words


With its imagery of native people throwing a lifeline to struggling immigrants,
the holiday that Americans observe today celebrates values that seem to belong
to another era. After all, we just elected a president who pledged to
effectively close the borders to refugees fleeing sectarian oppression and
violence in distant lands -- immigrants more desperate than even the persecuted
Pilgrims who boarded the Mayflower -- and to expel those who fled poverty and
crime in their home countries to build safe and productive lives here without a
legal right to do so.

To focus on the superficial parallels between then and now, however, would be to
miss a more important aspect of what we celebrate on Thanksgiving. As time would
reveal, the English emigres and the original inhabitants of Cape Cod were rivals
at the most basic level. Yet the Pilgrims who lived to see their first harvest
in 1621 celebrated it with members of the neighboring Wampanoag Indians because
they recognized a few important things that they shared -- starting with their
common interest in eking out a living on the land and belief in a Creator who
had helped them grow enough food to make it through another winter.

Finding these sorts of touchpoints seems harder for Americans these days. The
polarization between the political right and left, from the grass roots to the
nation's capital, has grown more acute over the last two decades. We've split
into multiple political, cultural and ethnic tribes -- fissures promoted by the
echo chambers of the Internet and cemented this year by a wildly divisive
presidential campaign, which left protesters chanting "Not my president" in the
streets of several major cities for days after the election. President-elect
Donald J. Trump has been sounding some of the right notes as he prepares to take
office, yet his first few appointments have only reinforced Democrats'
suspicions that his administration will be every bit as extreme as his campaign.

The strains in the ties that bind us together as a nation will be felt at many a
dinner table today, as families and friends gather to celebrate the holiday and
try not to talk politics. But ignoring our differences won't make them go away.
Three hundred ninety-five years after the first Thanksgiving, the challenge
isn't to make it through the next winter. It's to search for our lost
touchpoints -- the goals we all share, from liberty to security and from equal
opportunity to universal prosperity. We can and will fight over the means to
those ends. But first, we need to find a way to agree on where we want to go.
Together.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             919 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

It's Team Breathe vs. Team Panic

BYLINE: MEGHAN DAUM

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Opinion Desk; Part A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 665 words


It's been slightly more than two weeks since slightly less than half of those
who voted in the presidential election set Western civilization on a possible
course toward destruction.

As with any traumatic event, there's no "right" way to process the aftermath,
though when it comes to the Trumpocalypse a curious dichotomy has emerged. Those
who are unhappy about the results (and "unhappy" here ranges from "concerned" to
"suicidal") seem to be operating in either panic mode or "everyone take a deep
breath" mode.

Panic mode is easy to spot. If your Facebook feed resembles mine, which is to
say if it's no longer a social network as much as a rapidly scrolling emergency
alert system, chances are you and 500 of your closest friends are posting and
sharing phone numbers of legislators to call about the latest Trump-related
development.

Or maybe you're spitting out frenzied jeremiads about the end of the Republic,
or passing around mostly useless petitions, or arguing about which retailers to
boycott because they sell Trump products: Zappos? Macy's? Amazon? Oh, wait,
Amazon's OK because its CEO, Jeff Bezos, said he wanted to send Donald Trump
into space. Oh, wait, it's not OK because it's ... Amazon.

"Everyone take a deep breath" mode is, by its very nature, a subtler thing. It's
less conducive to social media than, say, face-to-face conversation. It's what
Jon Stewart exemplified when he was interviewed by Charlie Rose on CBS last
week. "I don't believe," he said, "we are a fundamentally different country
today than we were two weeks ago." It's the approach serious newspapers are
trying to take, reporting the facts rather than splashing out doomsday
headlines.

It's the attitude President Obama is maintaining with a level of grace and
self-discipline that is as impressive as anything I've seen in the public sphere
in recent memory. In fact, watching him negotiate this transition keeps bringing
me back to the Rudyard Kipling poem "If," especially this line: "If you can bear
to hear the truth you've spoken/Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools."

And yet panic mode seems to have the moral authority. If you're not panicking,
you're wrong. More precisely, if you're not panicking, you're "normalizing" a
situation that is aberrant in every possible way.

"Normalize" has become the word of the hour, and not without good reason. Human
beings are naturally resilient. We get used to things, we adapt. This is an
evolutionary advantage when it comes to propagating the species, but it can
prove catastrophic if citizens confuse watchful waiting with being lulled into
complacency. We shouldn't get so used to the smell of smoke that we stop
noticing the fire. Case in point: The liberals now praying Mitt Romney becomes
secretary of State.

"Normalize" is already being used as a weapon, mostly by Team Panic against Team
Take a Deep Breath. For all the people who took solace in Stewart's words,
plenty of others criticized him for showing insufficient outrage. And even
though most Americans understand the importance of a peaceful transition of
power, there are plenty who think President Obama, with his message of "give
Trump a chance," is being too magnanimous, the normalizer in chief.

If Obama was a regular person and told his liberal Facebook friends to tone down
the hysterics and take things one step at a time, he'd be scolded and schooled,
attacked for his privilege, labeled "part of the problem." Obviously, that's a
false equivalency if there ever was one, but it underscores just how
counterproductive the infighting can be. The truth is, Team Panic and Team Take
a Deep Breath need each other. They are not enemies but symbiotic partners.
Panickers could stand to chill out now and then, and the deep-breath-takers
might do well to pick up the phone and register their concerns with a
legislator.

That kind of give and take is not normalizing. It's just normal human respect
for normal human feelings in this most abnormal time.

--

mdaum@latimescolumnists.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion piece

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             920 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

CAPITOL JOURNAL;
Democrats can't ignore middle class

BYLINE: GEORGE SKELTON

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; bad desk code; Local Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

DATELINE:  IN SACRAMENTO


The California Democratic and Republican parties both can be thankful this
holiday. Democrats rule the roost in Sacramento. And Republicans can't fall much
lower.

Democrats are in a prime position to soon start slipping off their perch. And
the state GOP, with some uncommonly astute moves, could begin inching back up
the ladder to relevancy.

Yes, maybe that is fantasy. But if Republican Donald Trump's unorthodox upset
victory across America taught Democrats anything, it's that most of them should
toss out everything they think they know -- and do more thinking and listening.
Change is the bedrock of our political system.

"If we didn't get a wake-up call from what happened in the rest of the country,
then shame on us," says Sacramento-based Democratic strategist David Townsend,
who advises business-friendly moderates. "It's about the economy. Trump won on
economics. He didn't win on being a racist."

Hillary Clinton, however, did carry California by almost 2 to 1 -- nearly 62% to
about 33% in the latest count. Still, Trump attracted more than 4 million votes
in this deep blue state that contains solid patches of red in the interior.

Clinton drew more than 7.5 million votes. Democrats have a ton to be thankful
for.

For starters, they hold every statewide office and the two U.S. Senate seats.
And on Nov. 8, Democrats also increased their legislative dominance.

They picked up three state Assembly seats and regained a two-thirds majority.
They're also on the verge -- depending on the final vote count -- of gaining one
seat in the state Senate and reclaiming a two-thirds majority there.

With a two-thirds majority in both houses, the Legislature can pass a tax
increase without Republican help. It also can place a state constitutional
amendment or a bond proposal on the ballot.

That doesn't mean Democrats will do any of that. The last time they held a
two-thirds majority, after the 2012 presidential election, three senators got
into legal trouble and were suspended. There went the two-thirds.

Even without that, however, Democrats don't all think alike. The "mods" often
vote with business and against taxes -- like Republicans. Townsend estimates
there will be 22 or more business-friendly Democrats in the 80-member Assembly
during the next legislative session. There'll probably be five in the 40-member
Senate.

They're outnumbered by Democratic progressives, who don't like to be called
liberal anymore because they consider it a pejorative.

The long-term danger for Democratic office holders in California is if they
continue to ignore the middle class -- especially what's left of the blue-collar
workers who stiffed Clinton and sided with Trump in battleground states.

In many respects, they're the descendants of the "Reagan Democrats" who began
leaving California when President Reagan ended the Cold War and aircraft plants
started shutting down.

Automakers and other manufacturers also departed because of high taxes,
environmental regulations and jobs being shipped to Mexico and overseas -- stuff
that Trump hammered on to attract working class voters in the Rust Belt.

"Trump pointed out that the system is rigged," Townsend says. "And it's rigged
primarily against the middle class. We haven't done a thing for the middle class
in 20 years."

The Democratic strategist uses a football analogy to describe the 2016
presidential campaign:

"It's like [quarterback] Tom Brady walking up to the line and seeing there's no
defender in the center of the field. Trump ran right through it."

The last legislative session was a good example of Democrats' paying little
attention to the middle class.

It raised the minimum wage, expanded overtime for farmworkers, added welfare
money for diapers and allowed immigrants here illegally to buy health insurance
through Obamacare. It also, under Gov. Jerry Brown's prodding, increased
California's fight against global warming.

OK, fine. But it didn't do much to streamline much-abused environmental
regulations that delay and discourage job-creating economic development.

And it completely failed to come up with a plan to fix California's
deteriorating highways and bridges.

"Every damn pothole I hit belongs to Democrats," GOP consultant Rob Stutzman
told me Tuesday, driving back to Sacramento from the Bay Area.

Republicans wouldn't raise the gas tax to finance repairs. But if the governor
and Democrats really had focused on it, they should have been able to work out
some deal.

GOP consultant Mike Madrid, whose grandparents migrated to Southern California
from Mexico to work in airplane and auto plants, says, "The huge message to
Democrats nationally in the election was they can't win without the middle
class."

With the white middle class declining in California, Madrid sees Latinos
ultimately taking their place. But because of the years of Republican jabber
about illegal immigration, he doubts Latinos will turn to the GOP anytime soon.

"There are significant racial overtones," Madrid says. "Now people at the bottom
are increasingly Latino and black, and people with wealth are white and Asian.
Never in history has that turned out well.

"Both parties are in deep trouble for different reasons. Republicans for racial
reasons. Democrats for economic."

Republican consultant Ray McNally, however, is a party optimist.

"One of the most important lessons I've learned after all these years," he says,
"is that the party out of power can always count on the party in power to put
them back in power. The Democrats will overreach. Power really does corrupt."

For today, Democrats can rejoice in their good fortune. And Republicans can be
thankful for their turkey president-elect.

--

george.skelton@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             921 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

New Cabinet picks bring diversity to Trump team;
Establishment GOP women selected for U.N. and Education.

BYLINE: Christi Parsons, Tracy Wilkinson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


President-elect Donald Trump named Cabinet picks Wednesday who would bring some
gender and racial diversity to his administration, as well as a degree of
political independence, but raised questions about his pledge to seek experience
in choosing stewards of vast government bureaucracies.

Trump's picks for United Nations ambassador, Republican Gov. Nikki Haley of
South Carolina, and for Education secretary, Betsy DeVos, a billionaire advocate
of school vouchers, were the first two women named in a transition that had been
dominated by white, male Trump loyalists.

Haley is the daughter of Indian immigrants. Dr. Ben Carson, who is black, also
said Wednesday that he was under serious consideration to serve as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development.

The latest selections also offer some political diversity and could buffer Trump
from criticism that he was filling out the top echelon of his administration
exclusively with people who had backed his campaign.

Haley was openly critical of Trump during the Republican primary, endorsing two
of his opponents before finally standing alongside the eventual nominee. DeVos
was less outspoken in her reservations but contributed to at least two of
Trump's rivals and went into the summer nominating convention telling the
Detroit News she wasn't sure whether to back him.

Both are stalwarts of the Republican Party establishment that Trump so
vigorously challenged.

But Haley and Carson, if he is chosen, would seem to contradict Trump's
statement a day earlier, in an interview with the New York Times, that he valued
expertise in stocking his administration.

"We're trying very hard to get the best people -- not necessarily people that
will be the most politically correct people, because that hasn't been working,"
Trump had said. "So we have really experts in the field. Some are known and some
are not known, but they're known within their field as being the best. That's
very important to me."

A popular and engaging governor and a rising star in the GOP, Haley, 44, has
little background in foreign affairs. Carson, 65, is a retired neurosurgeon
whose primary credential in housing policy may be that he once lived in tenement
housing.

Days ago, a senior advisor to Carson said the former GOP presidential candidate
thought he lacked the background needed to manage a federal agency.

Carson didn't want to take a position that could "cripple the presidency,"
Armstrong Williams, an advisor to both Trump and Carson, told the Hill
newspaper. HUD is responsible for administering low-income housing assistance,
fair-housing laws, housing development and aid to neighborhoods in distress.

On Wednesday, however, Carson indicated a change of heart. "After serious
discussions with the Trump transition team, I feel that I can make a significant
contribution, particularly to making our inner cities great for everyone," he
said on Facebook. "An announcement is forthcoming about my role in helping to
make America great again."

DeVos, 58, does have long experience in education policy, advocating for
conservative goals and tangling with teacher unions.

She and her family -- her father-in-law cofounded Amway and has a fortune Forbes
estimated at $5 billion -- are among the biggest donors to the Republican Party
and to conservative Christian causes, including opposition to same-sex marriage.
She is also former chairwoman of the Michigan Republican Party.

"Betsy DeVos is a brilliant and passionate education advocate," Trump said in a
statement. "Under her leadership, we will reform the U.S. education system and
break the bureaucracy that is holding our children back so that we can deliver
world-class education and school choice to all families."

DeVos moved quickly Wednesday to reassure conservatives on one issue -- the
Common Core curriculum standards. She has been an ally of Republican former Gov.
Jeb Bush of Florida, who supports Common Core. "Many of you are asking about
Common Core," she wrote on Twitter. "To clarify, I am not a supporter --
period."

Her selection suggests Trump may make a priority of backing vouchers -- a
longtime conservative goal that he endorsed during the campaign. Voucher
programs give tax funds to parents that they can use to pay for private or
parochial schools if they find their public schools unsatisfactory. DeVos has
been a leading advocate of their use.

"The status quo in education is not acceptable," DeVos said in a statement.
"Together, we can work to make transformational change that ensures every
student in America has the opportunity to fulfill his or her highest potential."

Teacher unions, which intensely oppose vouchers, denounced the selection of
DeVos.

"Trump makes it loud and clear that his education policy will focus on
privatizing, defunding and destroying public education in America," said Randi
Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers. "The sum total of
her involvement has been spending her family's wealth in an effort to dismantle
public education in Michigan."

The selection of Haley represented a nod by Trump to more moderate forces in the
GOP, especially in the realm of global diplomacy.

A Trump aide defended Haley's credentials, saying she had improved the South
Carolina economy while engaging in overseas trade and recruitment travel.

The move also would give a promotion to one of Trump's early supporters, South
Carolina Lt. Gov. Henry McMaster, who would move into Haley's job. For Haley,
the U.N. post could provide a useful credential if she wants to seek higher
office, much as it did for George H.W. Bush, who served as U.N. ambassador in
the early 1970s.

The announcement of Haley's selection was somewhat unusual because Trump has not
yet announced a secretary of State, the U.N. ambassador's nominal boss.

Aides say he is looking closely at former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, a
sharp critic of Trump during the campaign.

Some conservatives have attacked that possibility. Former Gov. Mike Huckabee of
Arkansas said Wednesday that choosing Romney would be a "big insult" to Trump's
voters.

Trump is also considering one of his most loyal backers, former New York Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani. A Trump aide says the president-elect is spending
"significant time" deciding.

The selection is likely to be top of mind as Trump gathers with family at his
Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida for the Thanksgiving holiday.

--

christi.parsons@latimes.com

tracy.wilkinson@latimes.com

Times staff writer Joy Resmovits in Los Angeles contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NIKKI HALEY, governor of South Carolina, has been chosen as
ambassador to the U.N.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Alex Wong Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Lead story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             922 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

'Our people are hurting, and they feel afraid';
L.A.'s quiet archbishop has a message for the nation -- and prayers for Trump

BYLINE: Thomas Curwen

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Metro Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words


The archbishop spoke with a patience that belied his frustration.

"My dear brothers and sisters," he said to the congregation that had gathered at
the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels on the Thursday evening after the
presidential election. "We are here tonight because our people are hurting, and
they feel afraid."

For more than 10 years, Los Angeles Archbishop Jose H. Gomez has argued that the
U.S. immigration system is broken, and now overnight, the terms of the debate
had shifted.

The calls for a massive increase in deportations, the political rhetoric of the
last year, threatened to become reality, and as he looked out upon the faces of
the faithful, he could see their anxiety.

That afternoon, with preparations in place, he had retreated to his private
chapel and prayed. Most homilies take days to prepare, and he had a little more
than an hour to find the words to ease the fear sweeping through the
archdiocese.

He was nervous. Like most everyone, the result of the election had surprised
him. What was he supposed to say?

After a year of insults, threats and bombast, the election had laid bare the
vulnerability of the governed.

His quiet, amplified voice echoed through the cavernous space as he continued.
"We are here to listen to their voices because they feel they are being
forgotten."

The prayer service had been organized at the last minute, inspired in part by a
phone call from L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti's office, and only 100 or so
congregants were in attendance. Garcetti spoke, as did leaders representing the
Jewish, Muslim and Christian faiths.

But for Gomez, who came to this country from Mexico, the service was an
opportunity to show the church's solidarity with the more than 3 million Latinos
in the archdiocese.

"That's what tonight is about," he said. "Not politics. It's about people."

The words had a personal meaning for Gomez, whose mother's family was from San
Antonio and whose father's family came from Monterrey, Mexico, where he was
born.

As a child, he crossed the bridge at Reynosa, Mexico-McAllen, Texas, to visit
his mother's family during the summer and spring break. His father liked to
fish, and they would go to Padre Island in Texas.

Even though he had a passport and a tourist visa, he recalls how scary the
border crossing was.

"Right now -- all across this city and in cities all across this country --
there are children who are going to bed scared," he said.

From 2009 to 2015, more than 2.5 million people had been deported under the
Obama administration. Now it appeared that many more were at risk.

In the United States, there are 11.3 million undocumented immigrants, including
the almost 750,000 so-called Dreamers, who had been given protection under the
federal Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.

The president-elect has promised in the next two years to either pressure them
to leave or deport them, which would mean taking 15,000 into custody every day.

"There are men and women who can't sleep because they are trying to figure out
what to do ... when the government comes to take them away from their kids and
their loved ones," Gomez said, mindful of families divided, of the children
who've lost parents, of grandparents disappearing from their lives.

He has long argued that economic desperation drives families to give up their
homes and come to the United States.

It is what makes Americans unique: not just their immigrant past but their
acceptance of newcomers. Immigration, he has written, is not a problem but an
opportunity to renew the values that founded this country.

After years of pastoral work in Mexico, he was assigned to a parish in San
Antonio in 1987. He was ambivalent about going. He describes his ministry in
Monterrey as beautiful. At first he applied for an R-1 visa for religious
workers, and within six months, he had a permanent resident card, a green card.

In 1995, Gomez became a citizen, inspired, he says, by the chance to make a
contribution to the United States.

He says that many immigrants want to do the same. When he thinks about what it
means to be an American, he says he thinks about his mother and her respect for
others, her willingness to listen.

But in the succeeding years he has watched the generosity of this country grow
scarce, he says, reflecting upon the words of Pope Francis who has spoken about
"the culture of selfishness and individualism" in society.

In 2011, Gomez testified before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration
Policy and Enforcement and outlined the position of the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops in their opposition of workplace immigration raids and in favor
of reform.

Two years later, he represented the bishops' position before the Senate
Judiciary Committee.

That same year he put his thoughts in a short book, "Immigration and the Next
America: Renewing the Soul of Our Nation."

At the time there was the hope that politicians in Washington would fix the
system.

"My fear," he wrote, "is that in our frustration and anger, we are losing our
grip and perspective.... I'm worried we are losing something of our national
soul."

His homily echoed this idea but with added urgency.

"We are better people than this," he said. "We should not accept that this is
the best we can hope for -- in our politics or in ourselves."

Carolina Guevara, a spokeswoman for the archdiocese, said she is moved by the
passion in the archbishop's words. She also discerned a feeling of loss, a sense
that all the progress advocating for a humane immigration system might be swept
away.

The night before the service, demonstrators burned an effigy of President-elect
Donald Trump's head in front of City Hall. Some spray-painted graffiti
denouncing the president-elect on buildings and sidewalks, and hundreds stormed
onto the 101 Freeway north of downtown, shutting down traffic.

That day, Gomez had tweeted: "True civility means demonstrating real respect for
other people, even if we are deeply opposed to their positions or even their
worldview."

Speaking in the cathedral, he needed to be more direct.

"The answer is not angry words or violence in the streets," he said. "It never
solves anything; it only inflames things more."

Yet he understood frustration. He has lived with it through three
administrations and doesn't understand why politicians -- against the wishes of
their constituents -- have been unable to fix the immigration system. It seems
to him that they don't want to.

"Tonight," he said, "we promise our brothers and sisters who are undocumented,
we will never leave you alone. En las buenas y en las malas. In good times and
in bad, we are with you. You are family."

When Ellie Hidalgo of the Dolores Mission heard the words -- e n las buenas y en
las malas, a popular idiom expressing the unbreakable bond, the love within a
family -- she let out her breath.

She had come to the cathedral with nearly 30 members of her Boyle Heights
parish, families who wanted to know what the archbishop would say at such a
precarious time. She now felt inspired.

"Also tonight -- as we come together to pray for unity and to 'bind the wounds
of division,' " said Gomez, borrowing a phrase from the president-elect's
election speech, "we pray for our leaders, including our president-elect."

"Let's pray that they can come together, in a spirit of national unity, and
agree to stop the threat of deportations -- until we can fix our broken
immigration system."

Gomez has never argued for a complete amnesty. He has said that those who are
here illegally must be held accountable with fines, maybe community service, and
educate themselves about the country's laws and government. Deportation, he
believes, is a punishment that doesn't fit the crime.

And in the final words of his homily, he called upon the archdiocese's most
enduring symbol of hope and unification, a symbol of faith that endures across
borders in times of peril.

"And may Our Lady of Guadalupe -- the Mother of Jesus and the Mother of all the
peoples of the Americas -- may she watch over us and help us to truly become one
nation under God."

--

thomas.curwen@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: L.A. ARCHBISHOP Jose H. Gomez greets parishioners after a Mass
at the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels. More than 3 million Latinos live in
the archdiocese, and he strives to show solidarity with them.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Patrick T. Fallon For The Times PHOTO: FOR MORE THAN 10 years, L.A.
Archbishop Jose Gomez has argued that the immigration system is broken, and
overnight the terms of the debate have shifted.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Patrick T. Fallon
For The Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             923 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

RETAIL;
Post-election mood could drive spending

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 472 words


A divisive election that left half the country deflated and the other half
rejuvenated could reverberate through the holiday shopping season in the kind of
gifts people are giving or how much they spend.

Some retailers say they have seen a surge in feel-good items such as spa
treatments, candles and comfort food, while executives at some major retailers
like Wal-Mart, Target and Macy's have said there's no discernible shift in
consumer behavior since the presidential election won by Republican Donald
Trump.

The divide in the outlook may reflect the rift in the election, as Americans
split along geographic lines as well as by income.

"I don't need a comfort dog. I don't need anybody to feel sorry for me," said
Rhondi Bleeker, 50, of Totowa, N.J. "I'm actually happy because I was for
Trump."

Bleeker, who owns an eyelash extension business, believes the economy will be
better now. She says she'll still be spending the same $3,000 as she does every
holiday season, but she believes her business could do even better because,
whether people are sad or happy, most will want retail therapy.

Some shoppers say they plan to divert money from traditional gifts like sweaters
to donations to charity groups in their friends' or relatives' names.

Ryan Holmes of Chicago, who voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton, said he plans to
devote at least one-quarter of the $750 he typically spends on holiday gifts to
doing that. Even for gifts like music or books, he says he can't help but feel
that he might make a political statement such as giving a book on climate change
to educate a friend.

"I am frightened about what's to come, and sad and less hopeful," said Holmes,
34, an urban planning and real estate consultant. But he added, "I'm feeling
more engaged."

Shoppers have generally been moving away from buying "stuff" and more toward
spending on experiences. Factors from the weather to when Thanksgiving falls
already affect how stores fare at the holidays, and retailers from department
stores to discounters are under intense pressure from online sellers to offer
low prices and convenience.

A dip in buying before a presidential election is normal because people are
distracted, but spending usually bounces back afterward.

States that voted Democratic have seen the biggest drops since the election,
analysts say.

"We are in uncharted territory," said Gerald Storch, chief executive of Hudson's
Bay Co., which operates department stores under that name, Lord & Taylor and
Saks Fifth Avenue.

The divide could play into the hands of retailers who customize goods to cater
to increasingly fragmented tastes. Peter Gold, chief marketing officer at Market
America's online marketplace Shop.com, says since late October he has seen a
sales surge in spa products, candles and comfort food that he expects will
continue through the holidays.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Wire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             924 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

Infrastructure definition evolves;
Firms push to expand the types of public works to be included in Trump's plan.

BYLINE: Steven Mufson, Mufson writes for the Washington Post.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1050 words


Gone are the days when federal infrastructure spending was measured in highways,
bridges and ports.

As President-elect Donald Trump considers a massive new spending plan on public
works, policy experts, lawmakers and companies are racing to make the case that
infrastructure could include projects such as fast Internet networks,
electric-vehicle charging stations, power transmission lines and drinking water
systems.

During a Bloomberg News conference on infrastructure in Washington this month,
Mrinalini Ingram, vice president of smart communities at Verizon Communications
Inc., had her own candidates for infrastructure spending: Verizon networking
technology embedded in LED street lights and blue-light kiosks where pedestrians
in danger can call police.

At the same event, Richard Lukas, director of federal grants and program
development at the Trust for Public Land, was worrying about the fate of federal
grants used to fund a riverside park in Newark, N.J., a three-mile park along an
abandoned rail line in Chicago, and a trail and bike system in Cleveland.

Washington Mayor Muriel E. Bowser, a Democrat, had her own suggestion: "I would
like us to think about affordable housing as part of our critical
infrastructure."

The varied proposals highlight a chief challenge in drawing up any plan: One
person's crucial infrastructure is another person's bridge to nowhere.

"Infrastructure doesn't just mean roads and bridges. Infrastructure means a lot
of different things to a lot of different people," said Jason Grumet, president
of the Bipartisan Policy Center. "We have to be confident that we're investing
in things with common benefits, not like digging holes. The outcomes have to be
consistent with our national priorities."

How that will be decided is anyone's guess. Trump hasn't said how he will
stimulate infrastructure spending or how much will be public vs. private
funding.

Two of his advisors, private-equity investor Wilbur Ross and UC Irvine business
professor Peter Navarro, have floated the idea that a federal tax credit could
cover 82% of the private equity needed for big projects. They say that rather
than setting national priorities, the Trump administration should use the tax
credit to let the private market decide which projects to undertake.

"It would link increases in spending to reforms that streamline permitting and
approvals, improve the project delivery system, and cut wasteful spending on
boondoggle bridges and highways to nowhere," they said in an Oct. 27 paper.

Ross and Navarro did not describe any limits on who would qualify for the tax
credit, but they estimate that the federal government will hand out $137 billion
worth of credits.

There is no shortage of volunteers.

IBM Corp. Chief Executive Ginni Rometty recently wrote to Trump with her ideas
for infrastructure. "As we build big, let's also build smart," she wrote. "The
country should focus on infrastructure investments that incorporate Internet of
Things (IoT) technology and artificial intelligence to improve performance.

"And as infrastructure gets smarter, it also increases the need for
cybersecurity, so that vital networks cannot be compromised. We recommend that
your infrastructure package include incentives for states and localities to
build intelligent -- and secure -- roads, bridges, buildings and other public
facilities."

Many of the companies arguing for infrastructure are hawking their own products.
IBM provides equipment and services for the Internet of Things just as Verizon
provides LED networking technology, part of a company called Sensity that
Verizon bought in September.

Other companies and workers imagine other things when they hear the word
"infrastructure."

The American Society of Civil Engineers gave the United States a D-plus in its
2013 report card on infrastructure. It considered a wide variety of
infrastructure areas, including energy, schools, parks, rail, bridges, solid
waste facilities, dams, aviation, ports and drinking water.

Although Trump has said he will curtail U.S. spending on climate change, the
civil engineers group supports projects, such as flood control systems, that
would promote resilience to changing conditions.

For now, oil pipelines seem higher on Trump's priority list. "It's a huge
opportunity," said American Petroleum Institute President Jack Gerard, "that
doesn't cost taxpayers money."

"We're going to build some more pipelines that make sense, that are done with a
workforce that is the most highly trained, safest in world, with 20th century
technologies, and get some of those dangerous rail cars and trucks off the
road," said Sean McGarvey, president of North America's Building Trades Unions,
half of whose members spend part of each year working on energy projects.

In addition, McGarvey said, workers could "refurbish the existing pipeline
system."

Trump is also likely to pursue plans to bolster fossil fuels such as coal. By
contrast, the Obama administration had viewed renewable projects as
infrastructure projects. In July, the White House announced $4.5 billion in loan
guarantees for electric-vehicle charging stations. During her presidential
campaign, Hillary Clinton said that the installation of more solar panels would
fall under infrastructure spending.

Many state and city officials still have lists with traditional needs.

Oklahoma City Mayor Mick Cornett, a Republican who is also president of the U.S.
Conference of Mayors, favors things such as fixing aging water projects and
leaking pipes "that won't get loans" and where attracting private money is "not
realistic." Schools also fall into that category. And Oklahoma City, recognizing
that the quality of life affects its residents' health, has redesigned streets
to make them more pedestrian and bike friendly.

"I don't have much of an affordable housing issue," Cornett said regarding
Washington Mayor Bowser's comment. "Our market rate in Oklahoma City is
affordable housing in Washington, D.C."

Cornett, who has requested a meeting between Trump and the mayors, argued that
old infrastructure could be used in new ways and require new investments. One
example, he said: "The advent of the autonomous vehicle is probably going to
have more to do with change in the built environment and infrastructure than
anything we've encountered in our lifetimes."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: INFRASTRUCTURE was once limited to such things as highways,
bridges and ports. But now some say it should include Internet networks,
electric-vehicle charging stations, power transmission lines, drinking water
systems and even affordable housing.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Genaro Molina Los Angeles
Times

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Wire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             925 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

Trump tweets he's trying to save a factory;
He says he was working Thanksgiving to keep Carrier plant from leaving Indiana.

BYLINE: Jonathan O'Connell, O'Connell writes for the Washington Post.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 430 words


President-elect Donald Trump tweeted Thanksgiving morning that he was trying to
make good on a campaign promise that a Carrier air conditioning factory in
Indiana, and its 1,400 jobs, would not move to Mexico in 2019 as planned.

"I am working hard, even on Thanksgiving, trying to get Carrier A.C. Company to
stay in the U.S. (Indiana). MAKING PROGRESS - Will know soon!:" Trump tweeted.

Carrier, a division of United Technologies Corp. of Hartford, Conn., responded
with a tweet about an hour later: "Carrier has had discussions with the incoming
administration and we look forward to working together. Nothing to announce at
this time."

During the campaign, Trump called the planned closure of the Indianapolis plant
"disgusting" and "un-American" and made it a campaign rallying cry. At an
Indianapolis event in May he went further, offering the crowd a "100% guarantee"
the plant would not leave if he were elected.

"Here's what's going to happen," Trump said, according to Bloomberg. "They're
going to call me and they are going to say 'Mr. President, Carrier has decided
to stay in Indiana.'"

"One hundred percent -- that's what is going to happen," Trump added. "It's not
like we have an 80% chance of keeping them or a 95% -- 100%."

The Carrier back-and-forth was reminiscent of a similar exchange over
manufacturing facilities that Trump began a week earlier, when the
president-elect bragged on Twitter that he had received a call from Bill Ford,
executive chairman of Ford Motor Co., saying "he will be keeping the Lincoln
plant in Kentucky -- no Mexico."

Trump's claim was exaggerated, as Ford's union contract prevented it from
shutting down its Louisville Assembly Plant.

Ford clarified that it had merely decided not to relocate production of a single
vehicle, the Lincoln MKC, from Kentucky.

Carrier announced its plans to shut down the Indiana plant in February, with the
closure slated for 2019.

Chris Nelson, a Carrier president overseeing the unit, issued a statement at the
time saying the move to Mexico would allow the company "to operate more cost
effectively" because of the industry's ongoing migration to that area as well as
"cost and pricing pressures driven, in part, by new regulatory requirements."

The closure could lead to the loss of more than $100 million to the Indiana
economy and more than 1,000 other jobs that indirectly rely on the plant,
according to some estimates.

Trump's promise to save the plant was met with skepticism in some corners of
Indiana, home state of Vice President-elect Mike Pence, but he carried the state
easily over Hillary Clinton.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Wire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             926 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

Could another Scalia join the Supreme Court?;
Trump may seek a more moderate nominee to avert a confirmation battle.

BYLINE: David G. Savage

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


President-elect Donald Trump will soon have the chance to make good on one of
his most consequential campaign promises: fill the Supreme Court vacancy with a
judge in the mold of conservative icon Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in
February.

Any Trump nominee is almost guaranteed to be a conservative jurist who is
antiabortion and supports the 2nd Amendment's right to bear arms.

But what kind of conservative he selects will determine whether his first
nominee will be quickly confirmed or instead trigger a fierce fight in the
closely divided Senate, potentially overshadowing the early months of Trump's
presidency.

If Trump opts for a Scalia-like justice, as he repeatedly said he would during
the campaign, conservative lawyers say the betting favorite is Judge William H.
Pryor Jr. from the 11th Circuit Court in Atlanta, a former Alabama attorney
general who called the Roe vs. Wade decision legalizing abortion the "worst
abomination in the history of constitutional law."

The 54-year-old Pryor believes in Scalia's approach of interpreting the
Constitution by its "original meaning" -- one that has little room for gay
rights, even women's rights. His nomination would electrify Trump's conservative
base, but it would also set off a confirmation battle for which the outcome is
not assured.

"His nomination would ignite a firestorm across the country," said Nan Aron,
president of Alliance for Justice, among the liberal activist groups that are
already mobilizing to fight a Pryor nomination. "Our organization and others
would pull out every stop to keep him off the court."

Instead, Trump may opt for a less provocative nominee, such as Judge Diane Sykes
of Wisconsin, 58, a moderate conservative who sits on the 7th Circuit Court in
Chicago.

Sykes has ruled in favor of religious employers who challenged President Obama's
healthcare law and its requirement to provide free contraceptives, and she voted
to uphold Wisconsin's voter ID law. But she has not taken sharply ideological
stands or called for overturning liberal precedents.

Pryor and Sykes have been seen as top contenders ever since Trump mentioned them
by name during a Republican debate shortly after Scalia's unexpected death,
which threatened to tilt the court's ideological balance to the left.

But much will depend on the whether the GOP-led Senate moves to alter its
filibuster rules.

If the new Senate maintains its current rules, it would take 60 votes to cut off
debate and set a final vote on a Supreme Court nominee. That would allow the
minority Democrats, voting as a bloc, to prevent confirmation of a controversial
pick such as Pryor. Republicans next year are expected to control only 52 seats.

But Republican leaders could simply change the rules to clear the way for
Trump's high court nominee to be confirmed with a simple majority. That's what
Democrats did in 2013 when they controlled the Senate and wanted to overcome
Republican filibusters against Obama's judicial nominees. At the time, Democrats
exempted Supreme Court nominations from that rule change.

It remains unclear whether Republicans will agree on changing the rules to allow
confirmations with just 50 votes. Sen. Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) has said he would
oppose abandoning the filibuster rule, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell (R-Ky.) has also been seen as resistant to changing long-standing
Senate practices.

Even so, Pryor appears to have the inside track, according to conservative
lawyers and advisors in touch with the transition team.

Before becoming a judge in 2005, Pryor drew attention with a series of
outspoken, Scalia-like pronouncements on issues including abortion and gay
rights.

He ended one speech in 2000 with a prayer for the newly elected George W. Bush,
saying "Please, God, no more Souters." It was a reference to Justice David
Souter, a Republican appointee who disappointed conservatives during his 19
years on the court by frequently siding with liberals.

No one on the right worries that Pryor would move to the center or the left if
he were appointed to the high court. He is also a protege of Jeff Sessions, the
Alabama senator who is slated to become Trump's attorney general.

This month, the conservative Federalist Society met in Washington, and Pryor was
seen by many as the favorite for Trump's first high court nomination.

"He would be great," said Roger Pilon, vice president of the libertarian Cato
Institute.

Trump appears to share that view. Hours after Scalia died, Trump mentioned Pryor
and Sykes as among the "fantastic people" who could replace Scalia.

"I hope that our Senate, Mitch [McConnell] and the entire group, is going to
able to do something in terms of delay. We could have a Diane Sykes or a Bill
Pryor," he said, calling upon Senate Republicans to block Obama from filling the
seat. The GOP-led Senate pursued such a strategy, refusing since March to
consider Obama's nomination of Judge Merrick Garland.

During the campaign, Trump put out two lists with a total of 21 potential
Supreme Court nominees, and his aides say he will make his selection from those
lists.

Lawyers at the Heritage Foundation and the Federalist Society expect Trump will
choose a federal appeals court judge who is under age 60 and has a conservative
record. Other favored candidates include Judges Neil Gorsuch, 49, from the 10th
Circuit Court in Denver, Steven Colloton, 53, from the 8th Circuit in St. Louis,
and Raymond Kethledge, 49, from the 6th Circuit in Cincinnati and Thomas
Hardiman, 51, from the 3rd Circuit in Philadelphia.

Trump's list also includes several state justices; the most talked about names
are Joan Larsen, 47, a Michigan Supreme Court justice who was once a clerk for
Scalia, and Texas Supreme Court Justice Don Willett, 50, an avid tweeter who at
times has criticized Trump.

At the Federalist Society meeting, panel talks included nine of the 21 potential
Trump nominees to the high court. Justices Samuel A. Alito Jr. and Clarence
Thomas also delivered speeches.

Pryor moderated a panel on the "separation of powers," and he echoed Scalia's
view that "real constitutional law" is about the "governing structure," not the
individual rights protected by the Constitution. "It's a mistake to think the
Bill of Rights is the most important feature of American democracy," he said.

Pryor, like Scalia, believes issues such as abortion or same-sex marriage are
not individual rights protected by the Constitution, but instead are matters to
be decided by the states and their voters.

George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley, who spoke on the
panel, said he has known Pryor since they were law clerks in New Orleans.

"Bill is extremely smart and committed to first principles of constitutional
interpretation," Turley said after the panel talk. "He strongly believes in the
original design of the 'dual sovereignty' between state and federal governments.
He believes that states must make the decisions in traditional areas" of
responsibility, including abortion, the death penalty and gay rights.

In 2003, when the Supreme Court was hearing a challenge to a Texas law that made
gay sex a crime, Pryor filed a friend-of-the-court brief on behalf of Alabama
urging the court to rule for Texas.

He said the court should not be swayed by "political correctness.... Engaging in
homosexual sodomy is not protected" by the 14th Amendment and its reference to
liberty.

Upholding such a claim "must logically extend to activities like prostitution,
adultery, necrophilia, bestiality, possession of child pornography and even
incest and pedophilia," he added.

The Supreme Court in a 6-3 decision struck down the Texas law as an
unconstitutional invasion of liberty and privacy.

In dissent, Scalia wrote a passage similar to Pryor's brief. The court's ruling,
Scalia said, has "called into question ... state laws against bigamy, same-sex
marriage, adult incest, prostitution, masturbation, adultery, fornication,
bestiality and obscenity."

Pryor grew up in a Roman Catholic family in Mobile, Ala., and graduated from
Northeast Louisiana University in Monroe and Tulane Law School.

In 1996, Pryor was a 34-year-old deputy attorney general in Alabama when
Sessions, his boss, was elected to the Senate. He took over as state attorney
general and won a narrow election in 1998.

When George W. Bush became president, he picked Pryor for the 11th Circuit Court
of Appeals in Atlanta, but his nomination ran into fierce resistance from Senate
Democrats.

They blocked his confirmation, but Bush went around them and gave him a recess
appointment. Then, in a bipartisan deal, the Senate agreed to hold votes on
several stalled judges, and Pryor won confirmation on a 53-45 vote in 2005.

--

david.savage@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JUDGE DIANE SYKES, another potential Trump nominee, has ruled in
favor of religious employers who challenged contraceptive requirements, but has
not taken strong ideological stands.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Jose Luis Magana Associated
Press PHOTO: JUDGE William Pryor of Atlanta believes in Antonin Scalia's
approach to interpreting the Constitution.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Cliff Owen Associated
Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             927 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

BACK STORY;
Ticking clock for advocates;
As Trump's inauguration nears, conservationists feel a new urgency

BYLINE: William Yardley

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1163 words


The West's most powerful water managers held an emergency conference call on the
morning before Thanksgiving to consider the same question people across the
country are asking: What will the election of Donald Trump mean for the issues
they care about?

The group desperately wants to formalize new measures that will reduce how much
water Southwestern states take from the Colorado River and ease pressure on the
nation's largest reservoir, the drought-stricken, rapidly shrinking Lake Mead in
Nevada and Arizona. The water managers want to get it done while the federal
officials they have been working with for years, many of whom are political
appointees, still have their jobs.

"What we're driven by is not ideology or what can or should be done by the Obama
administration versus what the Trump administration might do," said Ted Cooke,
general manager for the Central Arizona Project, one of the West's largest water
agencies. Cooke participated in the call along with Mike Connor, the deputy
secretary of the Interior; Estevan Lopez, the head of the Bureau of Reclamation;
plus state and local officials, including from California.

"It's just the uncertainty and inertia that exists in any change of
administration," Cooke said. "I'm sure their replacements will be capable,
qualified and competent people, but even the best people need some time to get
up to speed. In the meantime, Lake Mead is going glug, glug, glug. So we
reaffirmed our commitment to getting this done, if humanly possible, by Jan.
20."

That, of course, is Inauguration Day, but it has increasingly come to seem like
the edge of a steep cliff for some advocates who want to protect land and water
in the West. While water managers may be driven by practical concerns, advocates
involved in other environmental issues worry about politics, and they, too, are
acting with urgency in hopes of seeing their priorities approved in the final
two months of the Obama administration.

Conservation groups are pressing to finalize a variety of rules that would, for
example, limit where oil and gas can be developed near Arches and Canyonlands
national parks in southern Utah, and where roads can be built in national
forests in Colorado. Some want President Obama to designate vast and
controversial new national monuments near the Grand Canyon and in the Bears Ears
section of Utah that is home to Native American tribes and sacred sites.

"These actions would represent significant, longstanding and positive change in
the Rocky Mountain/Colorado Plateau region and would inure to the benefit of all
Americans who cherish their public lands," Heidi McIntosh, managing partner in
the Denver office of the environmental law firm Earthjustice, wrote in response
to an email query.

The Obama administration has already taken a striking number of actions just
since election day, including finalizing a rule to reduce methane emissions from
energy production, a plan to prevent oil and gas development on Montana land
that is important to the Blackfeet tribe, a move to curb gold exploration near
Yellowstone National Park and a ban on offshore drilling in the Arctic for five
years.

These moves were all in the works long before Trump's stunning victory, but they
have added to the sense that a clock is ticking toward an unknown future. Obama
faced plenty of criticism from environmental groups during his two terms, but
his record appears extraordinarily green in the context of Trump's vows to cut
back environmental regulations and open more public lands to energy development.

On the campaign trail, Trump regularly questioned climate science and said he
would pull the United States out of the Paris accord for reducing emissions that
cause climate change. This week, he appeared to hedge, saying in an interview
with the New York Times that there is "some connectivity" between human activity
and climate change and that he is "open-minded" on the Paris accord.

Then again, in a video Trump released Monday, he said one of his first acts in
office will be to "cancel job-killing restrictions on the production of American
energy, including shale energy and clean coal, creating many millions of
high-paying jobs."

He also said that for every new regulation created under his administration, two
would have to be eliminated -- a promise that struck many as arbitrary. Ken
Kimmell, president of the Union of Concerned Scientists, called the idea
"absurd" and "illegal" and said it "shows a lack of understanding of how
regulations are issued."

Trump cannot reverse the designation of national monuments. The authority to
name them is given to the president by Congress through the Antiquities Act and
presidents have used it for more than a century.

Yet, Trump, along with the Republican-controlled House and Senate, would have
enormous power to undo many environmental regulations approved under the Obama
administration, either by taking executive action or by going through the
lengthier federal rule-making process.

Thomas McGarity, a professor at the University of Texas School of Law who
focuses on environmental and administrative law, speculated that the new methane
rule, which was strongly opposed by the energy industry, was among those that
could be undone through the little-used Congressional Review Act, which gives
Congress the power to more easily do away with certain federal rules not long
after they are made.

The Congressional Review Act has been used only once, to undo a rule involving
ergonomics and worker health that was passed in 2000 at the end of the Clinton
administration. As the Congressional Research Service noted in a report last
week, the act is more likely to be used when there is "turnover in party control
of the White House, particularly a turnover in which the incoming president
shares a party affiliation with a majority in both houses of Congress."

That will be the new reality on Inauguration Day.

"We got the trifecta this time," McGarity said.

Kristen Brengel, vice president for government affairs for the National Parks
Conservation Assn., said an emboldened Congress concerns her most. While Obama
has been in office, Republican lawmakers have faced a veto threat if they tried
to push through ambitious measures to reduce environmental regulations and
protections.

Brengel's group and others have identified more than 150 pieces of pending
Republican-backed legislation that, if passed, could undercut programs to
restore wildlife populations, make it easier for livestock to graze on public
lands and allow more logging of old-growth trees in Alaska's Tongass National
Forest.

Other bills would remove protections for at-risk species, create loopholes for
climate emissions, remove funding for stream protection near coal mines and
allow more aggressive tactics for hunting bears, to name just a few.

"President Trump wouldn't have to think a lot about it," Brengel said. "He could
just sign off on the bills. Just like that."

--

william.yardley@latimes.com

Twitter: @yardleyLAT

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WATER MANAGERS in the West want to formalize new measures to
help ease pressure on the nation's largest reservoir, the drought-stricken Lake
Mead.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Irfan Khan Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             928 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

Presidential conflicts of interest loom;
How Trump could use the office to benefit his vast business empire, without even
breaking the law.

BYLINE: Don Lee, Jim Puzzanghera

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Business Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1695 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


The Trump Organization spent months trying to drive off the culinary union from
its Las Vegas hotel, losing one legal battle after another before a federal
labor board.

Soon Donald Trump's company, which has refused to bargain with the union after
housekeepers and other employees voted to join last December, could gain some
leverage.

As president, Trump will be able to appoint two new members to the National
Labor Relations Board, giving the agency a 3-2 Republican majority that could be
more sympathetic to Trump.

"We hope that Mr. Trump doesn't use his power to interfere, considering he has a
financial interest in the outcome," said Bethany Khan, spokeswoman for Culinary
Workers Union Local 226.

Khan's concern is but one of many examples of potential conflicts of interest
that could arise for Trump the president versus Trump the businessman. His vast
holdings include hotels, office buildings and golf courses, and he has licensing
deals around the globe.

For example, Trump's corporate lenders include Deutsche Bank, which has been in
talks with the Justice Department to settle a mortgage securities case for
possibly billions of dollars, a process that the Trump administration could
inherit.

China, a frequent target of Trump's criticism during the campaign, has lent
millions of dollars through the state-owned Bank of China to a Manhattan office
tower on Avenue of Americas co-owned by Trump.

"How will this impact Trump's official relationship with China in his capacity
as president?" asked Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a watchdog
group.

Similarly, as president, Trump will be able to name the new General Services
Administration head, who will oversee negotiations regarding the government
lease to Trump of the castle-like Old Post Office Pavilion in Washington, which
his company recently refurbished into a luxury hotel.

"In this particular instance, President-elect Trump is both landlord and
tenant," said Paul S. Ryan, vice president of policy and litigation for Common
Cause.

And once president, Trump will appoint the head of the Internal Revenue Service,
overseeing the audit of his taxes, a process that he frequently cited as the
reason for not releasing his returns as other presidential candidates have done.

"We have never seen in modern times anything like the array of conflicts created
by the president-elect's extraordinary web of domestic and global business
relationships, investments and partnerships," said Norman Eisen, chief White
House ethics lawyer in President Obama's first term. Eisen and many others have
urged Trump to sell his assets and put the proceeds in a blind trust managed by
an independent party.

Trump said during the campaign that he would turn over control of his business
empire to his children while he retained ownership. Trump's three oldest
children -- Donald Jr., Ivanka and Eric -- are executive vice presidents of the
Trump Organization, the conglomerate based in New York.

But experts widely agree that such an arrangement would do little to prevent
potential conflicts because Trump is well aware of how his actions as president
might affect his businesses; and his adult children, who are serving on the
transition team, may have an ongoing advisory role in the administration.

It's also unclear how much Trump will step back from his business interests once
he is president. Just last week, he reportedly met at Trump Tower with three
real estate executives from India who are building a luxury apartment complex
there that will bear Trump's name. A spokeswoman said the meeting was simply a
courtesy call from the executives, including one who is managing partner of the
firm that represents the Trump brand in India. But news accounts in India
described it as a business meeting in which the executives talked with Trump
about expanding their partnership in India.

Calls to the Trump Organization and to Trump's White House transition team were
not returned.

Trump said on Twitter on Monday night that journalists were making too much of
his potential conflicts: "Prior to the election it was well known that I have
interests in properties all over the world. Only the crooked media makes this a
big deal!"

Vice President-elect Mike Pence says Trump is "completely focused on the
people's business."

"I'm very confident, working with the best legal minds in the country, that the
president-elect and his family will create the proper separation from his
business as he goes forward," Pence said on "Fox News Sunday."

Trump's supporters balk at the idea that the president-elect would use his
office to enrich his businesses, noting that he has an estimated wealth in the
billions.

That's cold comfort to Noah Bookbinder, executive director of Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.

"If that's true, then he should have no problem with selling those interests and
putting them in a true blind trust," Bookbinder said. "Second, this is a person
who's gotten to where he is by fighting for every penny, not paying people what
he has owed them because he didn't think their work was up to standards, or
taking every possible tax break.... The pattern that we've seen is not someone
who doesn't really care about maximizing his own profit."

After a big primary win in March, Trump used the occasion of a victory rally and
news conference at the Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, Fla., to brag about
the golf property and other Trump businesses. Since his election, Trump has
tempered such explicit promotion of his brand, but his daughter's jewelry
business drew fire recently after it made a blatant attempt to capitalize on
Ivanka's wearing of a $10,800 gold bracelet during a postelection family
interview with "60 Minutes." Ivanka Trump Fine Jewelry later apologized.

For watchdog groups like Bookbinder's, it is all the more unsettling because the
public doesn't know the extent of Trump's business interests. His companies are
privately held, and Trump still refuses to release his income tax returns.

Nothing in the law would prevent Trump from running his conglomerate or even
profiting from it while in office. Apart from annual financial reporting
requirements, federal conflict-of-interest rules for government employees and
members of Congress don't apply to the president.

"To my eye, the primary concern is ensuring that as he makes political decisions
as president, that they're understood to be broad policy decisions and not
decisions driven by the desire to benefit financially from them," said Robert D.
Lenhard, a senior attorney at Covington & Burling who was a member of the
Federal Election Commission in 2006 and 2007.

Rep. Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the top Democrat on the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, has called for the panel to "immediately begin a
review" of Trump's financial arrangements, but the Republican-controlled
Congress isn't expected to jump on the issue.

Given that Trump was elected with people knowing he has extensive business
involvement, Lenhard doesn't see it as necessary for Trump to sell his companies
and assets. He thinks the public might be satisfied with something like an
agreement for a "firewall" between Trump and his children so that they do not
talk about the family business.

Trump's far-flung ventures raise particular concerns. The "emoluments clause" in
the Constitution broadly prohibits officeholders, including the president, from
accepting presents "from any King, Prince, or foreign State." This is meant to
protect against corruption and undue influence from foreign powers, but the
clause has rarely been used and would be especially difficult to enforce when
gifts are indirect or inadvertent. Foreign officials or state-owned enterprises,
for example, could try to curry favor by partnering with or investing in one of
Trump's companies, or even booking the most expensive suite in Trump's hotel
down the street from the White House.

Such arrangements raise the same type of pay-for-play concerns that Trump and
Republicans levied against his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, and the
Clinton Foundation stemming from her time as Obama's secretary of State.

Past presidents also have faced questions about conflicts involving them, their
relatives and business dealings. Lyndon B. Johnson and his wife put their
multimillion-dollar radio holdings and other assets in a blind trust, although
there's evidence it wasn't exactly blind, as the main trustee belonged to a firm
whose partner was an old friend of the president.

When George H.W. Bush was president, a little-known company named Harken Energy,
whose board included son George W. Bush, landed a lucrative contract from the
government of Bahrain. At the time the deal was viewed as an effort by the
Persian Gulf nation's royal family to gain favor with the Bush administration.

Obama came into office in 2009 having rolled most of his investments into
Treasury bills, which made up the bulk of his 2008 assets of between about $1.2
million and $6 million, according to a financial disclosure form filed with the
U.S. Office of Government Ethics.

What makes Trump's potential for conflicts so unusual is the range and scope of
his business interests, unprecedented for an American president.

Trump has said that he is worth $10 billion, and his financial disclosure report
with the Federal Election Commission in May listed interests in more than 500
domestic firms and foreign entities. And these may not include all the ventures
in which he receives licensing fees for having his name on accessories,
apartments and other things that are located or sold around the world.

Sometimes even the Trump Organization seems to have trouble keeping track of his
partners and ventures.

In Baku, Azerbaijan, Trump reported almost $3 million in income in the last two
years, mostly for selling the rights to the Trump name.

Only later did Trump managers learn that the partner in the hotel project was
the son of a government official -- and that he was suspected of laundering
money for Iran's military. The project appears to have collapsed.

--

don.lee@latimes.com

jim.puzzanghera@latimes.com

Times staff writer Joseph Tanfani contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DONALD TRUMP will be able to name government officials,
including one involved in Trump's lease of the Old Post Office Pavilion in
Washington for a hotel.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Wally Skalij Los Angeles Times

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Lead story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             929 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

POST-ELECTION REACTION;
BLUE IN BAY AREA;
San Francisco, which overwhelmingly voted for Clinton, aims to recover from
shock over Nov. 8. 'We'll survive,' a resident says.

BYLINE: Peter H. King

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1018 words

DATELINE:  SAN FRANCISCO


It was the third Tuesday of November, one week after the election of Donald J.
Trump, and hundreds of protesters were on the march, streaming down Market
Street toward City Hall under police escort.

There was something about this march that distinguished it from the almost daily
post-election demonstrations that have occurred across the San Francisco Bay
Area, mostly peaceful, a few marked by vandalism: President-elect Trump was not
the target.

Rather, the protest was aimed at the proposed Dakota Access Pipeline, a
1,172-mile crude oil line that critics fear could harm lands held sacred by
Native Americans.

In one sense, the non-Trump demonstration seemed to suggest a return to normal
for a city with a long tradition of taking progressive political views to the
streets.

At the same time, however, it underscored an increasingly common response here
as the city's initial shock and anger over the election begins to subside -- a
greater need to take up a cause, to pay more attention, to engage more actively
in civic life.

"There are a lot of different issues," said Patricia St. Onge, one of the
protest organizers, who noted that representatives from Black Lives Matter and
other movements had turned out as well. "What we want to do now is start
connecting all the dots."

If California, as described by Teddy Roosevelt, is west of the West, then San
Francisco stands to the far left of the Left Coast. The election results
provided vivid evidence.

Fewer than 1 in 10 San Franciscans voted for Trump; 85.4% cast ballots for
Hillary Clinton. Across the seven-county Bay Area, the voting was almost equally
lopsided, with Clinton receiving nearly 1.3 million votes more than the
president-elect. Take away that margin, and Trump would have prevailed
nationally in the popular vote.

With the wide margins came an even wider river of grief here once it became
clear Trump had prevailed. In the election aftermath, the emotional stages
identified by Elizabeth Kubler-Ross in her landmark treatise "On Death and
Dying" all have been on display here: denial, anger, bargaining, depression,
plenty of each of these.

"Stop the transition," demanded a letter published Friday in the San Francisco
Chronicle newspaper from a reader who appeared to have moved on from denial to
bargaining. "The election is invalid, and I demand a new one, with United
Nations accountability."

Less in evidence has been acceptance, the fifth emotion Kubler-Ross discerned in
her study of the terminally ill, but there are moments.

"We'll survive," said Boyton Jones, a 51-year-old unemployed tech worker. "You
have to knuckle down, but we'll get through it just fine."

Jones was outside the 16th St. Mission BART station, applying adhesive tape to
keep multicolored sticky notes from blowing away in the breeze. People had been
placing handwritten messages on a station wall since the election.

"Discrimination is sin," one proclaimed.

"Pray," counseled another.

"Don't lose hope," offered another, followed by a smiley face.

"Somebody ought to write [expletive] fascism," growled a bearded young bicyclist
as he shot past.

Laid off in January and saddled with high rent, Jones, an Air Force veteran,
said he was leaning toward Trump early in the campaign, "but then it became
racist." On election night, he joined a large protest in downtown Oakland, but
was dismayed, he said, when "anarchists" started smashing windows.

He decided to go his own way. He built a sign warning of Pyrrhic victory and
chickens coming home to roost, donned a Golden State Warriors jersey with "Obama
44" across the back, along with an Obama mask, and started walking across the
Golden Gate Bridge.

"I do my thing on the bridge," he said. "My own protest."

He had come to the BART station wall to see the notes and noticed that they were
beginning to blow away. So he took it upon himself to make sure each was shored
up with tape.

"When you are so angry, and you feel like doing something negative," he said,
"the best cure is to do something positive."

Muriel MacDonald, a 25-year-old writer for a political consulting firm, started
the wall project. She described riding a streetcar to work after the election;
the car was filled with passengers. They all kept their heads down and did not
speak.

"It was silent," she recalled, "the whole way."

She said her project was her attempt to move forward. She said it's been
criticized for being "too warm and fuzzy. But I am just trying to help people
process so we can move on and fight. It's not about warm and fuzzy. It's about
psychological healing."

Since the election San Franciscans have expressed, in private conversation and
in published letters, a desire to look inwardly, circle the wagons, go it alone.
There has even been columnist chatter about supporting a California secession
from the union --no doubt impossible, but the conversational equivalent of
comfort food.

Others have advocated for pushing out into the country, assuming a national
leadership role for blue-state Americans, exporting Californians to register for
the next election in critical red-state districts.

For example, the San Francisco Gay Men's Chorus, born in the aftermath of
Supervisor Harvey Milk's assassination 40 years ago, has announced a plan to
perform a "freedom tour" through some of the reddest of red states in 2018.

"This chorus is rooted in social activism," explained Executive Director Chris
Verdugo. "We want to use music to put forward the ideals of compassion, activism
and community. These are our templates."

For his part, Mayor Ed Lee has offered at once both the idea of turning inward
and of leading outward.

"Today," he noted in a statement, "many San Franciscans are feeling anxious and
nervous following this divisive and polarizing presidential election.

"But San Francisco will remain San Francisco.... San Francisco will continue to
be a beacon of light, a city dedicated to progress, and a leader on issues that
have changed the landscape of our country for the better."

In this bluest of blue cities, anyway, the mayor's sentiments did not
necessarily seem like denial.

--

peter.king@latimes.com

Twitter: @peterhking

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PEOPLE gather in San Francisco on Nov. 15 to protest the Dakota
Access Pipeline. The demonstration seemed to suggest a return to normal for the
city.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Evan Sernoffsky San Francisco Chronicle PHOTO: MICHAEL
FRANTI sings to protesters. After Nov. 8, San Francisco has undergone the stages
of grief, including denial, anger and, later, some acceptance.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Evan Sernoffsky San Francisco Chronicle PHOTO: TSERING YANGKEY,
left, of Tibet, and Tanya Fromberg, of London, protest the Dakota Access oil
pipeline in San Francisco.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Santiago Mejia San Francisco Chronicle
PHOTO: LEESHA ZIEBER looks at notes at a San Francisco BART station Nov. 14.
Writer Muriel MacDonald said she started the project to help people deal with
the aftermath of the election.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Jeff Chiu Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             930 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

ESSENTIAL POLITICS;
How parties choose electors in California;
Democrats, GOP take different tacks on who will cast votes in the electoral
college.

BYLINE: Liam Dillon

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; bad desk code; Local Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 700 words

DATELINE:  SACRAMENTO


When she was first picked to vote in the electoral college, Francine Busby was
beyond excited. The San Diego Democratic Party chairwoman believed she was going
to be marking an official ballot to choose the first female president of the
United States.

Now, though, given Republican Donald Trump's upset victory over Hillary Clinton
for the presidency, California's electoral college meeting is going to be much
different than she expected.

"There's no joy in casting a vote right now," Busby said.

Trump won more electoral votes than Clinton, which, despite her current 2
million-plus lead in the national popular vote, will give him the presidency.

California is the most populous state in the union, and its 55 electoral votes
are the most in the country.

Clinton received millions more votes than Trump here, so Busby and her 54
Democratic colleagues will meet in the state Capitol building at 2 p.m. on Dec.
19 to cast their formal ballots for Clinton and vice presidential nominee Tim
Kaine.

They will be alone. The winner of California's popular vote gets the state's
entire slate of electoral votes; only Democratic electors will gather to make
the state's selection of Clinton official.

As efforts heat up to get electors in swing states to select Clinton instead of
Trump, California electors are unlikely to be lobbied.

"Under California law, electors aren't bound to a candidate, but all our
electors have said they are voting for Hillary Clinton," state Democratic Party
spokesman Michael Soller said.

Not all the Democratic electors are party officials like Busby. Each political
party in California chooses its electors differently.

Democrats give the party's top finisher in the congressional primary in each of
the state's 53 House districts the choice of who will be that district's
elector.

So Douglas Applegate, who trails GOP Rep. Darrell Issa in a still-tight
congressional race in north San Diego County, selected Busby.

U.S. Sen.-elect Kamala Harris and Sen. Dianne Feinstein chose the final two
electors.

The Democrats' list is made up of elected officials, relatives of elected
officials and other party advocates.

Among the electors are Janine Bera, the wife of Rep. Ami Bera of Elk Grove;
Christine Pelosi, the daughter of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and
chairwoman of the state party's women's caucus; Eileen Feinstein Mariano,
granddaughter of Sen. Dianne Feinstein; and Olivia Reyes-Becerra, daughter of
Rep. Xavier Becerra of Los Angeles.

State Assemblywomen Susan Eggman of Stockton and Shirley Weber of San Diego,
former state Sen. Christine Kehoe of San Diego, Los Angeles City Councilwoman
Nury Martinez and Laphonza Butler, president of the Service Employees
International Union chapter that represents home care employees, also are on the
list.

Though the state's other political parties are left out of the electoral
college, they came up with rosters of their own. The state GOP automatically
selects previous party nominees for state offices with the rest of the choices
made by the party's chairman.

Current state Republican Party Chairman Jim Brulte said he called Tim Clark, who
led Trump's campaign in California, to ask him to fill out the list. Well-known
names are on that party's slate, too, including state Sens. Joel Anderson of San
Diego and Jean Fuller of Bakersfield, former Rep. Doug Ose of Elk Grove, state
Board of Equalization member Diane Harkey and Republican National Committeeman
Shawn Steel.

Harmeet Dhillon, a state party official who delivered a Sikh prayer at the
Republican National Convention, also was an elector.

Brulte, who is a GOP elector himself, said he didn't mind working to pick an
electoral college slate even though the party's list doesn't matter.

"I would have much rather had Donald Trump be elected president and me not get
to vote in the electoral college than me getting to vote in electoral college
and Hillary Clinton be elected president," Brulte said.

Third parties have their own rules. The list for the American Independent Party
in California, which also nominated Trump for president, includes former GOP
Reps. Virgil Goode, Bob Dornan and John LeBoutillier -- all of whom don't live
in California.

--

liam.dillon@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE DEMOCRATS' list of electors is made up of elected officials,
relatives of elected officials and other party advocates. They include Janine
Bera, wife of Rep. Ami Bera of Elk Grove, above.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Rich Pedroncelli
AP PHOTO: DEMOCRATIC elector Francine Busby says, "There's no joy in casting a
vote right now."  PHOTOGRAPHER:Lenny Ignelzi AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             931 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

THE NATION;
Clinton team joins vote recount;
The campaign says it will take part in the ballot review in Wisconsin and
possibly elsewhere.

BYLINE: Don Lee

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 688 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign will participate in an effort led by
Green Party candidate Jill Stein to recount ballots in Wisconsin and perhaps two
other battleground states that were crucial to Donald Trump's victory, a Clinton
campaign lawyer said Saturday.

In response, Trump called the recount request "ridiculous" and a "scam" designed
to raise money for Stein's political party.

In a blog post, Clinton lawyer Marc Elias said her team had not planned to
participate in a recount, noting that inquiries over the last two weeks had not
"uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or outside attempts to alter the
voting technology" that affected the final tally in Wisconsin, Michigan or
Pennsylvania.

Elias downplayed any notion that a recount would change the results, noting that
the number of votes separating Trump and Clinton in Michigan -- the closest of
the three states -- vastly exceeds the largest margin ever overcome in a
statewide recount.

Preelection polls had shown Clinton leading in all three states. Trump won them
by a combined margin of 107,000 votes.

"But regardless of the potential to change the outcome in any of the states, we
feel it is important, on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally
represented in any court proceedings and represented on the ground in order to
monitor the recount process itself," he wrote.

In his statement, Trump aimed his fire at Stein, not Clinton.

"This count is just a way for Jill Stein, who received less than one percent of
the vote overall and wasn't even on the ballot in many states, to fill her
coffers with money, most of which she will never even spend on this ridiculous
recount," Trump said.

Stein, in fact, received at least 1% of the overall vote. She was on the ballot
in 44 states and the District of Columbia and was eligible as a write-in
candidate in three other states.

Trump continued: "This is a scam by the Green Party for an election that has
already been conceded, and the results of this election should be respected
instead of being challenged and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is
doing."

Elias said that the Clinton campaign had "quietly taken a number of steps in the
last two weeks to rule in or out any possibility of outside interference" and
that others have "expended time and effort to investigate various claims of
abnormalities and irregularities."

"While that effort has not, in our view, resulted in evidence of manipulation of
results, now that a recount is underway, we believe we have an obligation to the
more than 64 million Americans who cast ballots for Hillary Clinton to
participate in ongoing proceedings to ensure that an accurate vote count will be
reported," Elias said.

Stein filed for a recount in Wisconsin on Friday. The filing deadline for a
recount has passed in Pennsylvania, so she will have to challenge that state's
results in court to proceed. In Michigan, Stein has to wait until Monday for the
certification of the results.

"If Jill Stein follows through as she has promised and pursues recounts in
Pennsylvania and Michigan, we will take the same approach in those states as
well," Elias said in the blog post.

On Friday, the Obama administration said in a statement that it was "confident
in the overall integrity of electoral infrastructure" and it defended the
integrity of the election results as representing the will of the American
people.

Although the administration warned in early October that Russian hackers were
seeking to interfere with the campaign by leaking emails stolen from Democratic
Party leaders and Clinton's aides, the White House said Friday that "we believe
our elections were free and fair from a cybersecurity perspective."

During the campaign, Clinton sharply criticized Trump for refusing to say he
would accept the election results if she won. She conceded her loss to Trump
hours after polls had closed on election day and congratulated him.

As of Saturday afternoon, Stein's fundraising drive had brought in about $5.8
million to support the cost of the recounts, with a goal of $7 million,
according to her website.

--

don.lee@latimes.com

Twitter: @dleelatimes

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A POLLING PLACE in Kieler, Wis., on election day. Although
Hillary Clinton's campaign is joining Green Party candidate Jill Stein's recount
efforts, a Clinton lawyer says no change in the vote outcome is expected.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Nicki Kohl Telegraph Herald

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             932 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

Do electors have to vote for Trump?;
The electoral college could flip to Clinton. Here's how it works.

BYLINE: Barrow writes for the Associated Press.

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 594 words


Opponents of President-elect Donald Trump are trying to persuade Republican
electors to vote against him next month. A primer on the electoral college and
the role of electors:

--

What is the electoral college?

It's made up of the 538 Americans who actually elect the president. The number
corresponds to the seats a state has in the U.S. Senate and the House of
Representatives, plus the three electoral votes allotted to the District of
Columbia. The magic number is 270, the bare majority required to win the
presidency.

Electors meet in their state capitals to cast their ballots; this year, that
will take place Dec. 19.

--

How can a candidate win the popular vote and not the electoral college?

The national popular vote simply doesn't matter. Electoral votes are instead
awarded based on state-by-state results. Essentially, the U.S. holds 50 separate
popular votes that determine an electoral college vote count.

--

How many times has a candidate won the popular vote but lost the election?

Hillary Clinton would be the fifth candidate in the nation's history to fall
into this dubious category. The others were Andrew Jackson in 1824, Samuel
Tilden in 1876, Grover Cleveland in 1888 and Al Gore in 2000.

--

How did the college originate?

The electoral college is an original feature of the Constitution. Some framers
wanted popular election of the president; many others didn't trust the masses.
The electoral college was a compromise.

Pegging a state's electoral vote count to the size of its congressional
delegation was negotiated to give small states more influence proportionally
than large states.

The same urban-versus-rural, small-state-versus-large-state battle is the reason
for the makeup of the U.S. Senate, where every state has two members.

--

Do electors have to vote the way their state voted?

The Constitution is silent on this point, which suggests electors can go their
own way. This is certainly the thinking behind petitions and a few Clinton
electors urging Republican electors to abandon Trump.

In 29 states, there are either statutes or party rules that theoretically bind
electors to honor state results. But the penalty for becoming a "faithless
elector" is typically a fine measured in the hundreds of dollars.

The Supreme Court has never ruled explicitly on those state laws and party
rules, and some constitutional scholars say such state restrictions would be
struck down if challenged.

--

Have there been "faithless electors" before?

The National Archives says that throughout the nation's history more than 99% of
electors have voted as pledged.

According to research by FairVote.org, a nonprofit group that advocates for
national popular-vote elections for president, there have been just 157
so-called faithless electors. That represents less than 1% of the total
electoral votes cast in the nation's history.

Only a few of those have been in the modern era. The last publicly identified
faithless elector was Barbara Lett-Simmons of the District of Columbia in 2000.
A Gore elector, she abstained as a protest for her home city having no voting
representation in Congress. According to news reports, Lett-Simmons sought and
received Gore's permission for her act of defiance.

--

What happens if no candidate receives the 270-vote majority?

Under the Constitution, the House of Representatives decides, with each state
delegation casting a single vote for one of the top three vote-getters.
Republicans control most state delegations, so this route would still benefit
Trump.

The House has decided presidential elections only twice, in 1800 and 1824.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: POPULAR-VOTE winners Hillary Clinton and Al Gore both lost the
electoral college count.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Andrew Harnik Associated Press PHOTO:
POPULAR-VOTE winners Hillary Clinton and Al Gore both lost the electoral college
count.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Joe Raedle Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Wire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             933 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                  Home Edition

Officials stay vigilant for signs of hate;
With more crimes in the public eye, police watch social media and urge victims
to come forward.

BYLINE: James Queally, Veronica Rocha

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Metro Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1364 words


In Redwood City, a man slugged a gas station employee and told police he did it
because he wanted to hit a Mexican.

In Danville, a black student walked into a restroom at Monte Vista High School
and found someone had scrawled the words "colored" and "whites" over separate
urinals.

In Orange County, a local Republican official faced bipartisan scorn after she
wrote on Facebook that she did not "want any type of Muslims in our country."

Then, over the Thanksgiving Day holiday, numerous California mosques received
handwritten letters that threatened the genocide of Muslims and praised
President-elect Donald Trump.

Since election day, there have been reports in California and across the country
of hate crimes, ugly verbal confrontations and other incidents. The election was
one of the most divisive in modern history, punctuated with issues over illegal
immigration, Muslims and treatment of women.

Despite numerous high-profile incidents, officials said they don't know whether
there are actually more hate crimes since the election or whether they are
simply getting more attention.

Law enforcement agencies are trying to get ahead of the problem. Some are
launching task forces to quickly investigate hate allegations. San Francisco,
for example, is sending undercover officers into neighborhoods to see if they
become the victims of hate crimes. It's similar to a program the department
launched to reduce sport-related violence by having undercover cops wearing
rival team gear during playoffs.

Other agencies are stepping up outreach efforts to encourage people to report
hate crimes and incidents of bigotry that are likely protected by the 1st
Amendment, but that officials still vowed to investigate.

"In times of turmoil, in times of uncertainty, in times of strife, hate crimes
increase. The fear of other is very, very strong in humanity," Los Angeles
Police Chief Charlie Beck said. "This cannot stand. This cannot be something we
allow as a people."

Over the last week, law enforcement agencies throughout California have launched
a public awareness campaign hoping to deter the perpetrators of hate crimes and
to remind victims that they should feel safe in reporting such incidents to
police.

Authorities in Los Angeles and San Francisco are monitoring social media
comments that might rise to the level of a criminal threat or serve as a
precursor of a hate crime.

San Francisco Dist. Atty. George Gascon said he hopes the efforts will not only
deter criminal activity but also make those who fear being targeted feel safer.

"There are several things that are very concerning. The fear level that has been
impacting a lot of communities ... people are not going out into certain
places," Gascon said. "You're seeing Muslim women afraid to wear their
traditional garb."

Experts say hate crimes are generally believed to be underreported, in part
because the victims either speak poor English or fear that interaction with law
enforcement might spark questions about their immigration status.

As a result, it's difficult to get a clear sense of hate crime trends. But one
thing is clear: Even before the presidential election cycle, hate crime reports
were rising both nationally and in California.

Reported hate crimes throughout the U.S. rose 7% in 2015, according to the FBI.
Incidents specifically targeting Muslims grew the most, with 257 reported
incidents last year compared with 154 the year before. In California, hate crime
reports increased by 10.4% in 2015, according to the state attorney general's
office.

Officials are quick to point out that there is a difference between a hate crime
and cruel or hurtful comments, many of which are protected under the 1st
Amendment. The law makes it illegal to physically harm someone based on his or
her race, religion, national origin, gender or sexual orientation, among other
characteristics.

But Gascon and Beck also urged people to report incidents that might not be
prosecutable but still might constitute racist or bigoted behavior. Police want
to track those as well, and hope that by collecting information on racist
behavior and speaking out against it, they can battle back what some call the
"normalization" of hate.

"This is a new world for law enforcement," Beck said. "We have people that
monitor social media particularly in and around the things that we think may be
related to hate crimes, and then we make value judgments based on the law."

In September, the LAPD, the Rand Corp. and a group of British researchers
announced plans to monitor millions of tweets related to the L.A. area in an
effort to identify patterns and markers that may suggest that
prejudice-motivated violence is about to occur in real time. The researchers
then will compare the data against records of reported violent acts.

The academics said the program could help determine whether police can predict
when and where hate crimes are likely to occur and deploy law enforcement
resources to prevent them.

In New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo last week announced the establishment of a
special police unit to investigate hate crimes and established a hotline for
potential victims to call.

The Southern Poverty Law Center last week reported 701 incidents of harassment
since Trump's win, with most occurring in the first three days after the
election. Of those, 206 incidents were anti-immigrant and 51 were anti-Muslim.

There also were 27 reported anti-Trump incidents, according to the center.

Civil rights advocates say identifying perpetrators of hate crimes is difficult.

"In general the majority of hate crimes are not perpetrated by card-carrying
members of racist organizations," said Joanna Mendelson, an investigative
researcher with the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism. "There are so
many more incidents that are perpetrated by your juveniles, by your neighborhood
bigots. But they're not members of your National Socialist Movement or your
local KKK."

Trump has disavowed support from prominent white supremacists, including former
Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard David Duke, though critics say his outspoken views
have contributed to the tense political atmosphere. In an interview with "60
Minutes" given days after the election, Trump also said he was "saddened" by
reports of increased bias attacks.

"And I say, 'Stop it.' ... I will say right to the cameras: 'Stop it,' " Trump
said.

Some experts on extremism hope Trump will do more.

"We would like to see a speech addressing this specifically, not just saying the
words 'Stop it,' " said Brian Levin, executive director of the Cal State San
Bernardino Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism.

Aside from a call for unity from Trump, other activists called for greater
outreach from local police. Hussam Ayloush, executive director of the Council on
American-Islamic Relations in Greater Los Angeles, said he would like to see
police and prosecutors visiting local mosques and schools in an effort to
assuage fears.

Ayloush said many of the incidents reported to CAIR after the election involved
harassment, rather than violence. Muslims in Los Angeles, Riverside and Orange
counties have reported at least 15 incidents to CAIR, saying they were screamed
at for wearing religious garb in public or received anti-Islamic slurs in recent
weeks, according to Ayloush.

One Muslim college professor walked into class and found a note on his desk that
read, "this is not your country, this is Trump's country," Ayloush said.

Over the last few days, at least four mosques around California received copies
of a handwritten letter addressed to "the children of Satan" that called Muslims
a "vile and filthy people."

"Your day of reckoning has arrived," the letter states, according to CAIR.
"There's a new sheriff in town -- President Donald Trump. He's going to cleanse
America and make it shine again. And, he's going to start with you Muslims."

"There's a lot of concern today," Ayloush said. "When I visit people at mosques,
people are worried, especially people who are visibly Muslim."

Law enforcement officials and Muslim leaders will discuss the letters during a
news conference Monday at the Islamic Center of Southern California.

--

james.queally@latimes.com

veronica.rocha@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: "YOU'RE SEEING Muslim women afraid to wear their traditional
garb," San Francisco Dist. Atty. George Gascon said recently. Above, Gascon,
left, and elections director John Arntz discuss the election process.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Janie Har Associated Press PHOTO: HUSSAM AYLOUSH of the Council on
American-Islamic Relations said Muslims have been harassed.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Luis
Sinco Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             934 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                  Home Edition

ANALYSIS;
Old habits carry over for Trump;
President-elect so far is acting a lot like the candidate. The latest fight is a
war of words over vote recounts.

BYLINE: Cathleen Decker

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


Nearly three weeks into his presidential transition, Donald Trump has hewn
closely to the habits that won him the presidency.

He continues to brush aside fine points of policy and freely contradict earlier
positions, with some of the shifts seemingly based simply on the latest advice
he's received or the most recent audience he's spoken to.

He has been drawn to those with whom he shares a personal affinity, preparing a
Cabinet that from early indications leans in the direction of tough-talkers and
billionaire political outsiders like himself.

And he has turned a deaf ear to concerns about his ethics and temperament:
mixing business ambitions with his pending government power in unprecedented
fashion and unleashing decidedly non-presidential commentary via his favorite
social media platform, Twitter.

On Sunday, angry that Green Party candidate Jill Stein had proposed recounts in
three states in which the election results were close, Trump tweeted an
exaggeration of the size of his electoral college victory.

Then he falsely asserted that he would have won the popular vote "if you deduct
the millions of people who voted illegally."

Later, and again without evidence, he tweeted that "serious voter fraud" had
occurred in California, New Hampshire and Virginia -- all states that Hillary
Clinton won.

Trump's claim of illegal voting, a serious charge which, if true, would
undermine the legitimacy of the election he won, contradicts extensive analyses
that have shown consistent voting patterns from one state to the next and no
sign of serious anomalies. But it repeats a theory widely believed among his
supporters.

In reality, state-by-state tabulations have shown Clinton with a popular vote
lead of 2.2 million votes nationwide that will probably expand to about 2.5
million once all the remaining ballots are counted. California, where Clinton
won by nearly 2 to 1, has the largest share of ballots still to count.

The Oval Office exerts tremendous gravitational pull on its occupants. President
Obama, in a fingers-crossed wish, has already predicted that the tug of the
office eventually will move Trump into a more conventional orbit.

Not so far. Indeed, if anything, the transition has been a rerun of the campaign
that preceded it -- more publicly riotous than most with Donald Trump as its
centering force.

Such tactics served Trump well in the 17 months since he declared his candidacy
for president. Their persistence in the transition resurrects a question asked
repeatedly since then: Are these growing pains, or the way it's going to be?

Some answers may come with the appointments of the most influential Cabinet
posts -- State, Treasury and Defense -- which can be defining positions.

For now, the rancor is public, with one of those jobs being a key point of
contention. Fresh evidence came Sunday on network news shows when Kellyanne
Conway, Trump's campaign manager and advisor, excoriated Mitt Romney, who is
under consideration for secretary of State.

Romney visited Trump last weekend at his New Jersey golf club in what was the
first visible rapprochement after Romney scalded Trump's fitness for the White
House earlier this year.

Some leading Republicans have said a Romney appointment would heal divisions in
the party. On CNN's "State of the Union," Conway, by contrast, said that she
felt "compelled" to say publicly that she had seen and heard opposition to
Romney's selection that was "breathtaking in scope and intensity."

"The number of people who feel betrayed to think that a Gov. Romney would get
the most prominent Cabinet post after he went so far out of his way to hurt
Donald Trump," she said. "He gave speeches against Donald Trump. He attacked his
character."

"I'm all for party unity," she added, "but I'm not sure that we have to pay for
that with the secretary of State position."

Conway also cast doubt on Romney's experience.

"In the last four years, I mean has he been around the globe doing something on
behalf of the United States of which we're unaware?" she asked.

Her comments followed criticism of Romney by two other Trump surrogates, former
House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee.

That sort of public dispute -- whether it was an effort to influence the
president-elect or a signal of his intentions -- was one of several Trump
hallmarks prominently on view in recent days.

On policy, Trump repeatedly has softened or de-emphasized key components of his
campaign pitch. A video released 13 days after the election did not mention
three of the biggest applause generators at his campaign rallies -- his promises
to build a wall on the border with Mexico, to tear up the NAFTA trade agreement
and to repeal Obamacare.

In interviews, he backpedaled on another vow -- his threat to appoint a special
prosecutor to seek to imprison Clinton.

Sunday brought another item of policy uncertainty -- his posture toward Cuba.

After Cuban dictator Fidel Castro's death was announced, Trump's personal
response was a tweet that said simply, "Fidel Castro is dead!"

Later, his campaign put out a statement saying the Trump administration would
"do all it can" to help Cubans achieve prosperity and liberty. But it did not
mention reversing Obama's actions that had expanded ties with Cuba, as Trump had
pledged to do during the campaign.

"Nothing is definite. He'll be speaking with his advisors," Conway said during
an interview on NBC's "Meet the Press" when asked about Trump's plans for Cuba.

Trump's incoming chief of staff, Republican National Committee Chairman Reince
Priebus, sent a very different message in an interview on "Fox News Sunday."

"President-elect Trump is going to be looking for some movement in the right
direction in order to have any sort of deal with Cuba," he said.

As he seeks to fill in his senior staff, meantime, Trump has seemed untroubled
by a looming issue for him: how, or whether, to separate his business activities
from his presidency.

Early in the campaign, he said he would turn over his company to a blind trust,
then said he'd turn it over to his children, who already serve in executive
roles in the real estate firm.

But in an interview Tuesday with the New York Times, Trump pointed out that
presidents are exempt from conflict-of-interest statutes and said that it would
be impractical to sell off his business empire, which ethics experts from both
parties have said is the only way to avoid conflicts.

In the interview, Trump also admitted that he already had mixed business and
political talk in some discussions with foreign leaders.

Those moves are reminiscent of his campaign decision to flout decades of
tradition by refusing to release his income tax returns or details about loans
he's received.

In part due to that decision, Americans have no firm notion of the full range of
conflicts that could present themselves during his presidency.

A New York Times survey published Sunday found that Trump's businesses are
operating in at least 20 countries; in many of them, any significant real estate
project requires extensive involvement by government officials. They may now
have motive and opportunity to try to give favors to -- or solicit them from --
the Trump family.

With less than eight weeks to go before he takes office, Trump's plans, if any,
for addressing that issue may be the transition's chief unanswered question.

On "Meet the Press," Conway backed away from any suggestion that the Trumps
might now distance themselves from their sprawling businesses.

"Why deny his adult children the ability to do what they do so brilliantly
already?" she asked.

She noted that Trump was talking to "ethics compliance folks" to figure out a
strategy.

"Everything will be done the way it needs to be done," she said.

Then she uttered a line that defined Trump's 20 days as president-elect, and
perhaps the weeks and months to come: "There's no question that we're in
unprecedented times."

--

cathleen.decker@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MITT ROMNEY is under consideration for Donald Trump's secretary
of State. Some Republicans say a Romney appointment would heal divisions in the
party.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Carolyn Kaster Associated Press PHOTO: KELLYANNE CONWAY,
right, a Trump advisor, spoke out publicly against a Romney appointment.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Eduardo Munoz Alvarez AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Lead story; News analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             935 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

The so-called rigged election;
The theory reflects widespread disaffection with Trump, but it also feeds on
fear-mongering.

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Editorial Desk; Part A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 785 words


Americans are accustomed to accepting the outcome of even the closest and
hardest-fought presidential elections -- even those, such as the 2000 race that
put George W. Bush in the White House, in which the winner of the electoral vote
didn't prevail in the popular vote.

Yet three weeks after the final ballots were cast in the 2016 election, the
notion that the contest was "rigged" or otherwise lacking in legitimacy is
alarmingly widespread. A YouGov poll conducted from Nov. 11-14 found that 22% of
respondents thought the election was rigged. Among Democrats the number was 42%.

So pronounced is the disquiet that some usually serious commentators are
spinning scenarios about reversing Donald J. Trump's victory through recounts or
a revolt by members of the Electoral College. That seems highly unlikely. Even
the Clinton campaign noted that it "had not uncovered any actionable evidence of
hacking or outside attempts to alter the voting technology." As for the
Electoral College, there is no indication that a substantial number of electors
will rebel and support Clinton.

Nevertheless, the unease is real. And whatever one thinks of the outcome of the
election -- and this page endorsed Hillary Clinton and repeatedly described
Trump as unfit -- a perception that the election was unfair is corrosive.

To some extent, the popularity of the "rigged" theory reflects widespread
disaffection with Trump, whose often offensive campaign rhetoric has inspired
protests of "Not My President." But it also feeds on real and perceived
interference with the election -- by Russian hackers, by the director of the FBI
and by Republican officials who made it harder for Democratic-leaning citizens
to vote -- and on fear-mongering about imaginary voter fraud.

Ironically, the chief culprit in propagating the myth of that sort of "rigging"
is Trump himself. During the campaign he sowed doubt about the integrity of the
election process, and even after his victory he has been peddling utterly
unsubstantiated claims about "millions" of illegally cast votes (in an effort to
explain away his second-place finish in the popular vote). On Sunday the
president-elect tweeted: "Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and
California -- so why isn't the media reporting on this? Serious bias -- big
problem!" The actual big problem, as California secretary of state Alex Padilla
noted, was that Trump's allegations were unsubstantiated and absurd.

That's not to say that there aren't real issues and problems contributing to
public disaffection that need to be acknowledged and addressed. The Electoral
College, for instance, is an anti-democratic anachronism that should be
abolished through a constitutional amendment. But its existence isn't proof that
the election was "rigged"; if Clinton had won an electoral-vote majority and
finished second in the popular vote, her supporters would happily have
congratulated her.

The hacking of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta's emails and those of the
Democratic National Committee -- by Russian state actors, according to some U.S.
intelligence officials -- suggests that a foreign government might have utilized
technology to embarrass one candidate in a U.S. election and boost the candidate
it preferred. That sort of interference is outrageous and ought to concern
American officials regardless of their party.

While it's impossible to prove that it cost Clinton the election, FBI Director
James Comey's announcement on Oct. 28 that he was reopening the investigation
into her use as secretary of State of a private email server -- and his
follow-up two days before the election reaffirming he would not seek charges
against her -- revived an issue that the Democratic candidate thought she had
put behind her.

Comey's action violated the fundamental principle that the Justice Department
doesn't take unnecessary action close to Election Day that might affect the
outcome. In the future, he -- or his successors -- must refrain from such
intervention in the political process.

Finally, there is at least some evidence that certain Republican legislatures
made it harder for Democratic-leaning voters to cast their ballots and might
have cost Clinton votes. The top election official in Milwaukee, for instance,
said that a Wisconsin law requiring photo ID for voters probably contributed to
declines in turnout in poor areas of that city.

Laws and policies that depress the vote are objectionable and ought to be
reversed. But they aren't proof that the election was "rigged" in the sense that
votes were fixed or fraudulent or intentionally tampered with. The distinction
matters -- even if the election has produced a president who has trouble making
distinctions.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             936 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

MARKET ROUNDUP;
Stocks retreat from record highs

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 486 words


Stocks pulled back slightly Monday, retreating from the records the market set
last week.

Consumer companies and banks took some of the largest losses. Small-company
stocks, which have outperformed the rest of the market for weeks, gave back some
of their recent gains.

Consumer discretionary stocks were among the hardest hit, following the
post-Thanksgiving sales push.

Online retail giant Amazon fell $13.60, or 1.7%, to $766.77 after Citigroup
analysts cut their price target on the stock, citing deep discounting by the
retailer to compete during the holiday shopping season. Barnes & Noble fell 30
cents, or 2.3%, to $12.50 on reports the bookseller is also doing deep
discounting to entice patrons.

Monday's declines followed what has been a remarkable rally in November since
the upset victory of Donald Trump in the U.S. presidential election. Investors
have made big bets that Trump, with a Republican-led Congress, will push to
deregulate energy and banking sectors and cut taxes, which could lead to
stronger economic growth.

"Trump's victory and the Republican sweep provided a catalyst for investors to
ratchet up their optimism," Bob Doll, chief equity strategist at Nuveen Asset
Management, wrote in a note to investors.

The Russell 2000, an index of smaller companies, lost 1.3% on Monday, ending a
15-day winning streak. That was the longest winning streak for the index in 20
years, rising roughly 11.6% this month alone.

Banks also fell more than the rest of the market, with the financial sector of
the S&P 500 falling 1.4%. Banks have surged since the election on speculation
that the Trump administration will roll back some regulations put into place
following the financial crisis.

Investors have also pulled out of the bond market, betting that higher economic
growth will also lead to higher inflation, which the U.S. economy has had little
of since the financial crisis.

Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.31% from
2.36%. Bond prices have been falling sharply since the election as investors
anticipate that Trump's policies could lead to higher economic growth and higher
inflation. The yield on the 10-year note was 1.83% the day before the election.

The price of benchmark U.S. oil jumped $1.02, or 2.2%, to $47.08 a barrel in New
York ahead of a meeting of OPEC, where oil-producing countries may consider a
broad cut in production. Brent crude, the international standard, rose $1, or
2%, to $48.24 a barrel in London.

In other energy trading, heating oil rose 4 cents to $1.51 a gallon, wholesale
gasoline rose 4 cents to $1.41 a gallon and natural gas rose 15 cents to $3.23
per thousand cubic feet.

The euro edged higher against the dollar to $1.0597 from $1.0592 on Friday. The
dollar fell to 112.26 Japanese yen from 113.04 yen.

The price of gold rose $12.40 to $1,190.80 an ounce, silver rose 11 cents to
$16.58 an ounce and copper fell 1 cent to $2.657 a pound.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Wire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             937 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

CITY & STATE;
After heated race, Issa clinches 9th House term;
The Vista Republican looks to the future as Applegate expresses pride in
campaign.

BYLINE: Joshua Stewart, Stewart writes for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE:  SAN DIEGO


Incumbent Rep. Darrell Issa has won his ninth term in the House of
Representatives after fending off a challenge from Democrat Doug Applegate in
the closest race of his political career.

Issa leads with 50.4% of the vote to Applegate's 49.6%, a margin of 2,348 votes
as of early Monday afternoon.

The Vista Republican said he looks forward to another term to continue his work
for his constituents and the nation.

"I am eager to continue working to advance the best interests of the American
people and restoring the focus of Washington where it belongs: economic
prosperity, national security and government accountability," he said in a
statement. "With our newly unified government, we have the opportunity to lead
the country in a new and better direction."

Applegate's spokesman said the candidate raised important issues.

"We ran a great race and we are really proud of the effort we put together,"
campaign manager Robert Dempsey said.

Though ballots are still being processed, the current gap between the candidates
appears greater than the number of uncounted votes, shoring up a victory for
Issa barring any sort of unexpected development.

Orange County Registrar of Voters Neal Kelley said Monday afternoon they
finished counting all but a small number of damaged ballots and ballots without
a second page. San Diego County officials also said Monday afternoon that fewer
than 1,000 votes were left to count in that portion of the 49th Congressional
District, which spans both counties.

The contest was one of the most watched in the country and put Issa, a
congressman who built a reputation among Republicans as an unblinking watchdog
when he led the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, against
Applegate, a retired Marine colonel making his first foray into politics.

Heads turned after Applegate, now a trial lawyer, received 45.5% of votes in the
June primary, an unexpected finish that put him within striking distance of
Issa, who received 50.8% . Far-left candidate Ryan Wingo received 3.7%.

Applegate's performance in June changed his and Issa's campaigns.

The candidates didn't focus on policy but on slinging mud. Issa attacked his
opponent over two temporary restraining orders obtained by Applegate's former
wife. Applegate took efforts to link Issa, among the wealthiest members of
Congress, to Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump. In particular, an
Appplegate ad focused on the video that surfaced of Trump boasting that his fame
let him get away with sexually assaulting women.

--

joshua.stewart@sduniontribune.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DARRELL ISSA, above, faced a tough race after Doug Applegate's
primary performance put him within striking distance of winning the 49th
District seat.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Mark Wilson Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Election results

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             938 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

How to account for the vote recount;
Trump is unlikely to see his win reversed, but both he and his opponents have
something to gain.

BYLINE: Noah Bierman, Michael A. Memoli

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


President-elect Donald Trump's postelection victory party has veered into a
dizzying paradox.

Rather than celebrating, he is amplifying far-right conspiracies to undermine
the credibility of an election he won. At the same time, he is finding some
common cause in the quixotic effort by the fringe left to prevent him from
reaching the White House.

The chances of changing the election result with selective ballot recounts, as
some on the left hope, or finding widespread voter fraud as alleged by Trump are
next to nil. Yet a combination of self-interest and a desire for misdirection
have propelled factions of both parties to debate the results of an election
already decisively settled.

Trump's motives are often hard to pinpoint. But by pushing the myth that
millions of ballots were cast illegally for his opponent, as he has done on
Twitter in recent days, he may be building the case to claim a larger mandate
for his victory despite the fact that Hillary Clinton is leading the popular
vote by more than 2 million votes.

The issue also distracts attention from mounting questions about the financial
conflicts of interest he is likely to have in the White House, given that he
plans to allow his children to run his international real estate and branding
business while he serves as president. Finally, Trump's rhetoric may also sow
the seeds of future efforts to propose more restrictive voting rules championed
by some of his top advisors.

At the other end of the ideological spectrum, failed Green Party candidate Jill
Stein has been seeking voter recounts in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania,
three states that Trump won and that together carry enough electoral votes to
give the election to Clinton. Reversing the result in just one of the states,
let alone all three, is all but impossible. Yet Stein's gambit allows her to
raise money and attract attention to a candidacy that failed to galvanize the
vast majority of voters.

"I've never seen this kind of attack on poll workers and how the system works,"
said Mark Thomsen, a Democratic appointee who is chairman of the Elections
Commission in Wisconsin, the first state in which Stein sought a recount. "We're
going to play it out, and I'm confident that the president-elect is going to
win. We're doing everything we can so that it's timely and that it doesn't
impact the electoral college."

Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican, tweeted that the expense -- $3.5
million in his state -- was "hard to justify" given that Trump's margin of
victory was four times that of the closest presidential election in Wisconsin.
It was also 17 times the largest revised margin resulting from any recount in
the last 16 years.

Wisconsin was set to begin recounting nearly 3 million ballots Thursday if Stein
and another minor-party candidate who also petitioned for it came up with the
money to pay for it by Tuesday afternoon. The expense is due in part to hiring
thousands of temporary workers needed to meet a federal deadline of Dec. 13 to
complete the tallies. Stein said she had raised $6.5 million.

The two other states could follow, though Stein may lack the organization to
finish the job. On Monday, she announced she had been successful in initiating
recounts in only 100 of more than 9,000 Pennsylvania precincts. She needs voters
from each precinct to contest results on her behalf.

Trump leads by 22,177 votes in Wisconsin, according to the last county-by-county
figures released by the state Elections Commission. The president-elect also
leads by 68,030 votes in Pennsylvania and 10,704 in Michigan, which certified
its results Monday.

Statewide ballot recounts are rare, and examples of swinging the outcome of
elections are even rarer. Just 27 statewide elections were subject to recounts
from 2000 to 2015, according to an analysis from the nonprofit group FairVote,
reported by FiveThirtyEight, with an average of 282 votes shifting as a result.
Only three candidates won elections because of recounts, according to the
analysis.

"I've never seen a recount overturn margins as large as the ones we're dealing
with here," said David Wasserman, an elections analyst for the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report who is closely monitoring the state-by-state electoral tallies.

Clinton's campaign, even as it agrees with that assessment, has made the awkward
decision to participate, albeit minimally, in the recount. Her campaign did its
own due diligence in Wisconsin and other states and found no "actionable
evidence" of vote manipulation that would merit challenging, and saw little
chance that a recount would overturn the election result, according to campaign
attorney Marc Elias. But in light of Stein's efforts, the Clinton campaign said
it was important, "on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally represented"
in any recount proceedings.

Trump, though he criticized Stein, echoed her distrust in the system, which he
called rigged throughout the election. On Twitter, he made a baseless claim of
"serious voter fraud" in three states he lost -- Virginia, New Hampshire and
California -- and asserted without evidence that he would have "won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally."

California, where Clinton is ahead by more than 3 million votes as ballots
continue being counted, has safeguards built into its voting system, including
automatic recounts in close races. California Secretary of State Alex Padilla, a
Democrat, noted that Trump's claim of fraud in the state was unsubstantiated and
called it absurd.

"His reckless tweets are inappropriate and unbecoming of a president-elect,"
Padilla said in a statement.

Trump's spokesman, Jason Miller, on Monday referred to Stein's "recount
nonsense" while talking up Trump's "mandate to push forward" on his agenda. He
decried the media for "chasing the shiny object of the Jill Stein recount
effort."

Yet he defended Trump's accusations of widespread voter fraud elsewhere, citing
studies that point to clerical errors on the voter rolls -- but no evidence of
fraud -- and to a discredited report suggesting noncitizens had voted in the
2008 election.

The last time that Wisconsin, whose Elections Commission met Monday to review
recount procedures, had a statewide recount was in a state Supreme Court race in
2011. In an election with just more than half as many ballots cast as in this
month's election, it cost $520,000, according to an Associated Press survey of
county clerks.

Wisconsin has no threshold for triggering an automatic recount, leaving it up to
candidates to request, and pay for, any re-tallying of the votes. Candidates
must also state a reason for seeking the recount -- evidence of fraud or
irregularities, for instance.

On Friday, just ahead of a deadline, Stein submitted her request to the
Elections Commission, leveling accusations of foreign tampering.

"After a presidential election tarnished by the use of outdated and unreliable
machines and accusations of irregularities and hacks, people of all political
persuasions are asking if our election results are reliable," Stein said in a
statement Monday.

Wisconsin election officials on Monday repeatedly expressed doubt about whether
a recount would reverse Trump's victory in the state, while challenging Stein's
claims of irregularities resulting from a potential hack.

Though different counties use different voting machines, none are ever online.
State law requires rigorous security measures for all machines, including
testing 10 days before the election. Tampering with them would require
"unfettered physical access to voting equipment," said Michael Haas, the
Elections Commission administrator.

The commission says its elections administration is the most decentralized in
the country, primarily run at the county level with state supervision, another
hurdle for anyone trying to perpetuate widespread voter fraud.

"It's most unfortunate that the president-elect is claiming that there's huge
problems with our system and it's feeding what I'll call the conspiracy theory,"
said Thomsen, the commission chairman. "I'd like him to come down out of his
Trump Tower ... and spend time with the folks on the ground who are counting
these votes."

--

noah.bierman@latimes.com

Twitter: @noahbierman

michael.memoli@latimes.com

Twitter: @mikememoli

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ELECTION DAY in Eau Claire, Wis. The Democratic chairman of the
Wisconsin Elections Commission said of the recount: "I've never seen this kind
of attack on poll workers and how the system works."  PHOTOGRAPHER:Marisa Wojcik
Eau Claire Leader-Telegram

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             939 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                  Home Edition

Trump's claim is called 'absurd'

BYLINE: John Myers

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; bad desk code; Local Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722 words

DATELINE:  SACRAMENTO


President-elect Donald Trump not only alleged widespread national voter fraud in
a series of messages posted on Twitter on Sunday, but took the time in one tweet
to target the ballots cast in California as an example of the problem.

Trump called the fraud "serious" in the state, along with Virginia and New
Hampshire, and blamed media "bias" for the lack of coverage the allegations have
received.

It was the first time the president-elect has specifically voiced concerns about
voting in California. The tweet came in the wake of several days of criticism
from both Trump and his advisors over an effort by the Green Party to force a
recount of votes cast in Wisconsin and possibly Michigan and Pennsylvania.

The tweet, posted on Sunday afternoon, was met with condemnation from the
state's top elections official.

"It appears that Mr. Trump is troubled by the fact that a growing majority of
Americans did not vote for him," Secretary of State Alex Padilla, a Democrat,
said in a statement. "His unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in
California and elsewhere are absurd. His reckless tweets are inappropriate and
unbecoming of a president-elect."

Elections officials in the state's 58 counties have not yet finished counting
the ballots cast this month, but there's no doubt Trump was trounced by Democrat
Hillary Clinton. In returns as of Saturday night that add to mounting evidence
of just how far out of reach the state is for Republicans, Clinton was ahead by
more than 3.9 million votes.

The president-elect's Sunday comments are not in line with any reporting or
investigations into intentional acts in California designed to influence the
outcome of the vote. Even so, the concern for voting integrity was echoed by a
top state Republican.

"I just think our system is ripe for fraud in California," said Harmeet Dhillon,
the former vice chair of the California Republican Party and current Republican
National Committee member.

Dhillon said she had not seen evidence of a systemic effort to rig California's
elections, but said Republicans had often raised concerns about election
operations.

In particular, she criticized the state's relatively new law that requires the
counting of any absentee ballot postmarked by election day and arriving as long
as three days late. She said it was possible a ballot envelope could be
postmarked using a private postage meter that had been set to Nov. 8 but was
cast the next day.

"The word 'postmarked' is not clear in the law," said Dhillon, a San Francisco
attorney.

But any such incident would be too isolated to sway a statewide election such as
the presidential contest. Trump's accusation, offered as so many of his tweets
without any further explanation or substantiation, stood in contrast to what
otherwise at this point are only a series of vignettes about ballot or election
mistakes in California.

"Broad-brush allegations of voter fraud and illegal voting serve only to
undermine the public's trust and confidence in the elections process and run the
risk of further deflating voter participation," said Dean Logan, registrar of
voters in Los Angeles County and president of the statewide association of
elections officials.

Unlike other states, elections observers point out, California has a series of
safeguards built into the systems used by individual counties and overseen by
state officials.

Those include voter-verified paper records for any ballots cast by electronic
device (though the preponderance of votes are now cast using optical-scan
ballots) and a 51-year-old law requiring an audit of the results in all races by
hand-counting 1% of the ballots in each precinct across the state.

"California has the most robust voting verification laws of any state in the
country," said Kim Alexander, president of the nonpartisan California Voter
Foundation.

In the almost three weeks following Trump's election, numerous online posts have
alleged -- with no actual evidence -- voter fraud in various places across the
country, often tied to allegations that those votes came from immigrants in the
U.S. illegally.

Even so, Dhillon said the integrity of elections in California and across the
nation is a serious issue that Trump is trying to highlight.

"I think a single fraudulent ballot is a serious instance of fraud," she said.

--

john.myers@latimes.com

Twitter: @johnmyers

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PRESIDENT-ELECT Donald Trump blamed media "bias" for the lack of
coverage the voter fraud allegations have received. Above, Trump on election
night.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Saul Loeb AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             940 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

Don't believe Trump -- it was no landslide

BYLINE: DOYLE McMANUS

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Opinion Desk; Part A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 711 words


It's been three weeks since Donald Trump won the presidential election, but he
can't stop stewing over the narrow result.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," he tweeted on
Sunday.

"Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California -- so why isn't
the media reporting on this? Serious bias -- big problem!"

Both claims are false.

Nobody, including the Trump aides who were supposed to be watching for fraud,
has produced any evidence of illegal votes. And Trump didn't win the electoral
college in a landslide -- not even close. He won 57% of electoral votes, but
that's well below average for winning candidates. His 306 electoral votes are
comparable to the 303 John F. Kennedy won in 1960. That kind of election is
generally called a squeaker, not a landslide.

Why is Trump raging about the numbers when he ought to be focusing on the job
he's going to have in just over seven weeks? He's worried about two problems:
his legitimacy, and his mandate.

It's understandable that he's annoyed by the recount drive launched by Green
Party candidate Jill Stein. It's not going to change the outcome, as Clinton's
campaign has conceded. Rather, it's a sadistic bit of political theater that
takes one of Trump's favorite themes, rigged elections, and turns it against
him. And it's hit a nerve.

As a young builder from Queens, Trump felt excluded from Manhattan. As a real
estate mogul, he lashed out against anyone who doubted his claims of success.
Now, as president-elect, he can't shake his anger that anyone is questioning his
victory.

But this isn't just about Trump's ego. To govern the way he wants, a president
needs a mandate. And it's not clear that Trump has one.

The word "mandate" doesn't appear in the Constitution, even though presidents
have tossed it around for more than a century. So I'll rely on the late William
Safire's invaluable "Political Dictionary":

"MANDATE, n: The authority to carry out a program conferred on an elected
official; especially strong after a landslide victory."

Leaving aside Trump's hot air on the electoral vote, his claim to broad popular
support is still weak.

He won about 46% of the popular vote; Clinton won 48%. You want a mandate? In
1980, Ronald Reagan won 51% of the popular vote in a three-way race. In 2008,
Barack Obama won 53%. In 1932, Franklin D. Roosevelt won 57%.

Voters recognize the difference.

A Washington Post poll last week found that only 29% of voters think Trump has a
mandate to carry out his program; most said they want him to seek compromises
with Democrats instead.

By comparison, in 2008, 50% said Obama had a mandate. In 2000, 41% said George
W. Bush, who lost the popular vote, had a mandate.

Trump's "favorability" has inched upward since the election to 47% in the CNN
Poll, but he's still short of a majority. That's never happened to a
president-elect in modern polling before.

As a practical matter, Trump needs a mandate, however defined, to persuade
Congress to follow his lead, confirm his nominations and enact his programs --
even when Congress is held by his own party.

Republicans hold only 52 seats in the Senate; if only three dissent, the new
president will have a problem. And GOP senators are a restive lot; 12 of the 52
did not endorse Trump on election day. On Tuesday, in an early show of autonomy,
Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said he didn't agree with
Trump over his charges of voter fraud or his demand (in another tweet) to lock
up anyone who burns the American flag.

Trump is immune to chastisement; if we learned anything from the campaign, it's
that. But he won't get away with his bogus claims unless other politicians and
voters accede. So it's not bad sportsmanship for Democrats and others to point
out what really happened on Nov. 8; it's truth-telling, and it matters.

If enough voters remember that Trump didn't win in a landslide, he'll have to
build a mandate the hard way: by getting things done. If his administration is
brilliantly managed and his program succeeds, his percentage of the popular vote
won't matter for long. For now, he's on shaky footing -- no matter what he
tweets.

--

doyle.mcmanus@latimes.com

Twitter: @DoyleMcManus

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TRUMP'S 46% of the popular vote is not a mandate.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Mandel Ngan AFP/Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Opinion piece

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             941 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

BUSINESS BEAT;
Carrier makes deal with Trump;
The air-conditioning company says it has agreed to keep nearly 1,000 jobs in
Indiana.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 289 words


Air-conditioning company Carrier Corp. said Tuesday that it had reached a deal
with President-elect Donald Trump to keep nearly 1,000 jobs in Indiana.

Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence planned to travel to the state
Thursday to unveil the agreement alongside company officials.

Trump spent much of his campaign pledging to keep companies like Carrier from
moving jobs overseas.

His focus on manufacturing jobs contributed to his unexpected appeal with
working-class voters in states such as Michigan, which has long voted for
Democrats in presidential elections.

The details of the agreement were unclear; the company had said it would move
some 2,000 jobs to Mexico.

Carrier tweeted Tuesday that the company was "pleased to have reached a deal"
with Trump and Pence to keep jobs in Indianapolis.

The president-elect had leverage in any discussion with Carrier. Its parent
company, United Technologies, says that 12% of its $56.5 billion in annual
revenue comes from military and aerospace sales.

A transition official confirmed that the president-elect and Pence, who is
ending his tenure as Indiana governor, would appear with Carrier officials
Thursday. The official insisted on anonymity because the official was not
authorized to discuss the trip ahead of an official announcement.

Trump said last week that he was "making progress" on trying to get Carrier to
stay in Indiana.

The event in Indiana will mark a rare public appearance for Trump, who has spent
nearly his entire tenure as president-elect huddled with advisors and meeting
with possible Cabinet secretaries. He plans to make other stops later this week
as part of what advisors have billed as a "thank you" tour for voters who backed
him in the presidential campaign.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DEMONSTRATORS march in Indianapolis in April to protest
Carrier's decision to move some 2,000 jobs from Indiana to Mexico.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Joe Raedle Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Wire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             942 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

BACK STORY;
Election goes into overtime;
A look at Wisconsin's recount, and why it's unlikely to change a thing

BYLINE: Michael A. Memoli

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1823 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


"This is certainly not Bush v. Gore," a Wisconsin elections official said.

Well, what is it?

The state is initiating the first significant candidate-driven recount in a
presidential election since the 2000 ordeal in Florida between then-Vice
President Al Gore and eventual President George W. Bush.

Donald Trump is certain to remain president-elect after Wisconsin's nearly 3
million ballots are re-tabulated.

But the fight in Wisconsin and potentially in other states has given third-party
candidates new rationale for seeking attention for their causes, and it has
given Trump fresh ammunition to trash his opponents -- as well as, most
baffling, the political process in which he just secured the presidency.

Here is a look at the issues involved in Wisconsin and elsewhere as the 2016
presidential election seeps into overtime.

Why is Wisconsin heading toward a recount?

In requesting a recount Friday, just ahead of a deadline to do so, Green Party
candidate Jill Stein cited "well-documented and conclusive evidence of foreign
interference" in the presidential race, as well as "irregularities observed in
Wisconsin." Wisconsin was one of Trump's narrowest wins, by about 22,000 votes.

Why is Stein seeking the recount?

Wisconsin has no threshold for triggering an automatic recount, leaving it up to
individual candidates to request, and pay for, any re-tallying of the votes.
Stein received 31,006 votes in the state, about 1% of the total, giving her the
standing to seek a recount even though she's unlikely to benefit from a
potential change in result.

Another candidate, Roque "Rocky" De La Fuente, applied for the recount ahead of
Stein, part of what he called an effort to "bring the weaknesses of our
electoral system to the attention of every citizen." De La Fuente received just
1,514 votes in Wisconsin.

This is as much about getting their names in the news as it is about election
integrity. For Stein, the recount effort also helped raise money, which she
sought in connection with the recount but which her campaign would not guarantee
would be spent exclusively on recount efforts.

Stein's petition was also prompted by a report on findings by J. Alex Halderman,
a professor of computer science at the University of Michigan. He questioned
whether Hillary Clinton's poor performance in some counties was tied to the use
of electronic voting machines that could have been tampered with. Stein included
the post as "exhibit one" for her petition, even as Halderman clarified the
interpretation of his analysis.

But what some saw as potential anomalies are easily explained by demographics,
other experts said. The counties that use paper ballots tended to be urban, more
Democratic-leaning areas where Clinton performed best.

Why does it cost so much?

The federal deadline to complete the recount is Dec. 13, and county officials
may need to work evenings and weekends to meet it, according to state elections
overseers. Wisconsin's last statewide recount, a 2011 state Supreme Court race,
cost $520,000 to examine about half as many ballots, according to an Associated
Press survey of county clerks.

Candidates can challenge results of the recount within five days of the recount
being completed.

Stein's campaign for recounts led her to raise $6.5 million through an initial
fundraising drive, toward a goal of $7 million she said was needed to cover
costs. After her call for a recount received an enthusiastic response, she
repeatedly increased the amount of money she said she needed.

Where does Hillary Clinton fit in?

Clinton's team did its due diligence in Wisconsin and other states and found no
"actionable evidence" of vote manipulation, and no state where a recount or
challenge was merited, said Marc Elias, a lawyer for her campaign. But once
Stein initiated the recount, the Clinton campaign wanted to ensure it was
represented.

That participation has been exaggerated and misconstrued by some to say Clinton
is herself challenging the result. Wisconsin election officials said Monday that
Clinton's campaign would not bear any costs for the recount, but that it -- like
Trump's campaign -- was eligible to observe the process.

And yes, Clinton, her campaign, Democrats, even some Republicans and many
independent and outside voices were critical of Trump's refusal during one of
the televised debates to say he would honor the result of the election. He later
clarified to say that he reserved the right to challenge any questionable result
if he suspected potential fraud.

That's quite different, both in spirit and in literal terms, to this process. It
is Trump, not Stein or Clinton, alleging a widespread effort to manufacture
illegal votes.

Where else might we see recounts?

Pennsylvania and Michigan are two other closely contested states where Stein is
seeking recounts. They, along with Wisconsin, made up the Clinton firewall that
Trump successfully breached.

It's worth pointing out that elections in this country are not conducted by a
single entity. All 50 states have their own processes for conducting elections
and their own rules for certifying, auditing and potentially recounting results.
And some states allow counties and municipalities leeway to act independently of
one another, on issues such as voting equipment, for instance.

The Wisconsin Elections Commission calls its state the most decentralized in the
nation, with primary authority for the recount at the county level with state
oversight.

This uneven process virtually guarantees it is impossible to conduct widespread
fraud that would turn an election.

Stein's campaign said Monday that it was successful in initiating recount
requests in 100 voting precincts in Pennsylvania, where Trump won by more than
68,000 votes. But there are more than 9,000 precincts statewide, so Stein is far
short of what she needs to trigger a statewide recount.

A recount in Pennsylvania is especially unlikely to yield a substantially
different result, given that it is one of just a dozen states where there is no
paper record to review.

Elections officials in Michigan, where Trump won by more than 11,000 votes,
certified results Monday, triggering a deadline for candidates to request a
recount within 48 hours. Stein's campaign said it would request a recount
Wednesday that's done by hand.

What are the chances this changes the election results?

Slim to none. Citing data compiled by nonprofit FairVote of the 27 statewide
general election recounts in the last 16 years, FiveThirtyEight found that the
average change in margin was just 282 votes. The biggest was in the
highest-profile case: Florida's presidential vote in 2000, when Al Gore gained
1,247 votes to close to within 537 votes behind George W. Bush, out of more than
5.9 million cast. Still, he didn't win the state or the election.

Just three states -- New Hampshire, Wisconsin and Michigan -- had final margins
of less than 1 percentage point in the 2016 election. In terms of raw votes, the
closest outcome of the roughly dozen battleground states was New Hampshire,
where Clinton won by just 2,736 votes.

But the Nov. 14 deadline for any candidate to apply for a recount, as well as a
Nov. 18 deadline for voters to petition the state for one, came and went.

"I've never seen a recount overturn margins as large as the ones we're dealing
with here," said David Wasserman, an elections analyst for the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report who is closely monitoring the state-by-state electoral tallies.

You're kidding.

Very little of this is funny.

So why do we care?

In part because we're in the unique situation in which the president-elect, the
winner of the election, is the one most publicly raising questions about the
integrity of the outcome.

Trump attacked Stein for initiating the recount, then went on to say he would
have won the national popular vote as well as the electoral college had millions
of ineligible votes not been cast, a falsehood for which his own campaign has
offered no evidence.

The most likely source for Trump was hardly a credible one: a report without
evidence cited by the fringe website InfoWars.com claiming to have verified that
more than 3 million votes were cast by noncitizens. "Virtually all of the votes
cast by 3 million illegal immigrants are likely to have been for Hillary
Clinton, meaning Trump might have won the popular vote when this number is taken
into account," the website said.

As The Times reported just before the election, voter fraud -- in which a person
casts a ballot despite knowingly being ineligible to vote -- is "extraordinarily
rare," according to a report by the Brennan Center for Justice at New York
University Law School. The 2007 study examined elections where wrongdoing was
alleged and found the rate of substantiated instances of fraud ranged between
0.00004% and 0.0009%.

Vote tallying is ongoing -- mostly in California -- and Clinton is likely to win
the popular vote by about 2.5 million votes.

Who is Trump talking about when he falsely claims that millions voted illegally?

He didn't specify, but he may have been talking about people who vote even
though they are not citizens, a warning he repeated during the campaign. "They
are letting people pour into the country so they can go ahead and vote," he said
in October, again without evidence. By law, all voters in national elections are
supposed to be U.S. citizens. Even legal immigrants may not vote until they
become naturalized.

Can noncitizens register to vote?

It's possible, though not legal. When people register, they must check a box
swearing that they are citizens. But in most places, the question is handled on
the honor system. Election administrators usually verify identity, by checking
drivers' license or Social Security records. But under federal rules, they may
not ask for proof of citizenship, like a birth certificate or a passport.

Do they actually vote?

It has happened, though not in any meaningful fashion in terms of election
results. A conservative legal foundation that has pushed for citizenship checks
has obtained lists of people purged from the voting rolls for not being
citizens.

In Virginia, more than 1,000 people have been removed since 2011 in eight
counties that provided records. In Philadelphia, election administrators purged
86 noncitizen voters over three years; 40 had voted at least once.

Election supervisors say most of these cases were mistakes made by people who
thought they could vote, not cases of intent to fraudulently vote.

What's the evidence that millions of people are voting illegally?

There is none. Trump has mentioned a statistical analysis by three Virginia
academics that estimated that more than 6% of noncitizens cast illegal votes in
2008. But that study was attacked by other experts, who said that it made too
much of a few people who said they were noncitizens and might have given
incorrect answers to a survey.

--

michael.memoli@latimes.com

Times staff writer Joseph Tanfani in Washington contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VOTERS in Madison, Wis., on Nov. 8. In requesting a recount in
the state, Green Party candidate Jill Stein cited "well-documented and
conclusive evidence of foreign interference" in the presidential race.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Amber Arnold Wisconsin State Journal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             943 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

Saving safety net or gunning for it?;
Trump has vowed to protect Medicare and Social Security. But a key Cabinet pick
has pledged the opposite.

BYLINE: Noam N. Levey, Noah Bierman

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


President-elect Donald Trump reassured voters during his insurgent political
campaign that he would protect Medicare, Social Security and other popular
federal assistance programs.

But in tapping Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.) to be his Health and Human Services
secretary, he has elevated one of the most aggressive proponents of dramatically
overhauling the government safety net for seniors and low-income Americans, a
long-held conservative goal.

Trump also took a step toward a potentially explosive political battle over the
entitlements, which account for close to half of all federal spending.

Such a battle -- and the threat of benefit cuts to more than 100 million
Americans -- risks alienating some of the very working-class voters who fueled
Trump's unexpected victory. His advisors and prospective Cabinet already include
several figures whose wealth and political connections are at odds with Trump's
populist rhetoric.

"The pressure here will ramp up significantly," said John Lawrence, former chief
of staff to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-San Francisco), who has led
numerous fights against GOP efforts in recent years to overhaul entitlement
programs.

Even the smallest cuts in federal support can spark a backlash, Lawrence added,
given people's attachment to Medicare and other programs. "It can be $20, and
they've got serious trouble on their hands," he said.

Congressional Republicans voiced strong support Tuesday for Price, whom Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) called "the right person to lead the
charge" to repeal Obamacare.

But Democrats moved quickly to highlight Price's calls for more far-reaching
entitlement changes.

"Washington Republicans are plotting a war on seniors next year," said Sen.
Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), the incoming Senate minority leader.

Several Senate Democrats, including red-state lawmakers such as Indiana Sen. Joe
Donnelly, announced they would vote against confirming Price. "Tom Price has led
the charge to privatize Medicare, and for this reason, I cannot support his
nomination," Donnelly said.

Trump, in announcing his selection of Price, called the 62-year-old six-term
congressman "exceptionally qualified to shepherd our commitment to repeal and
replace Obamacare and bring affordable and accessible healthcare to every
American."

The president-elect did not mention Price's calls for major changes to Medicare
and Medicaid, which Price has made a centerpiece of his legislative agenda.

"Without changing course, America's healthcare system will worsen with time, the
nation's federal health programs will either go bankrupt or contribute to the
fiscal insolvency of the country at large, and Americans will lose access to the
care they need," Price warned in the 2017 budget blueprint he crafted as
chairman of the House Budget Committee.

Price, like House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.), advocates replacing the
government-provided Medicare health plan with a program that provides seniors
with a voucher to purchase private health coverage.

This system, which supporters call premium support, saves the federal government
money by gradually shifting costs onto beneficiaries, independent budget
analyses have shown.

Price also advocates a new system of block grants to states that would sharply
cut federal aid for Medicaid, which primarily serves poor Americans.

Conservatives have argued for decades that Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid, the mammoth government entitlement programs for the elderly, disabled
and poor, are unsustainable.

But the three entitlements, which cost more than $2 trillion annually, remain
extremely popular, unlike the divisive Affordable Care Act, as Obamacare is
formally known.

"Medicare is not seen as the same type of issue as the ACA," Harvard University
political scientist Robert Blendon, an authority on public opinions of
healthcare, explained at a recent forum by the Alliance for Health Reform. "Most
voters of both parties think Medicare is working."

Even Medicaid, which began as a welfare program, and the related Children's
Health Insurance Program have established strong bipartisan support, reflecting
in part the large role they play in providing coverage to children and elderly
Americans in need of nursing home care.

Nearly two-thirds of Americans said that Medicaid is a "very important"
government program in a 2015 national survey by the nonprofit Kaiser Family
Foundation. That was only slightly below Medicare, which was rated similarly by
77% of Americans, and Social Security, which 83% of respondents said was very
important.

The depth of that public support has prevented Republicans from making major
changes to the programs over the years.

President George W. Bush's 2005 push to privatize Social Security not only was
defeated, but helped reenergize Democrats and fueled the party's return to power
in Congress in the 2006 midterm election.

Trump appeared to grasp this on the campaign trail.

Though he did not discuss healthcare and entitlement policies frequently, Trump
insisted several times that he would protect programs serving vulnerable
Americans.

"I'm not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican, and I'm not
going to cut Medicare or Medicaid," Trump said last year in an interview with
the Daily Signal, an online news site operated by the conservative Heritage
Foundation.

"Every other Republican is going to cut, and even if they wouldn't, they don't
know what to do because they don't know where the money is. I do," Trump said.

But the president-elect has offered few details about his healthcare agenda,
including his plans to replace the 2010 Affordable Care Act.

And many in Washington are still trying to figure out whether Trump will align
himself with the conservative governing program that has been championed by
Price, Ryan and other congressional Republicans in recent years.

"All of Trump's nascent positions were opening gambits in a deal," said Rick
Tyler, who was an aide to former House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.). "It's
always a negotiating position with him."

Trump has indicated a willingness to forge an alliance with Democrats over
infrastructure spending, a top policy goal that could find him clashing with
fiscal conservatives in his party.

That made his choice of Transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, particularly
noteworthy. In addition to serving eight years as Bush's Labor secretary, Chao
is married to McConnell, a key negotiator in any spending plans Trump would put
forward.

Chao's establishment ties conflict with Trump's promise to "drain the swamp" in
Washington and promote outsiders to lead his government. But Chao's connections
could be an asset as he makes the case for fixing dilapidated airports, roads
and bridges.

Chao's tenure at the Department of Labor included criticism from some advocates
that she sided with employers on enforcing safety standards and failed to
adequately protect low-wage workers. Chao rejected those assertions.

The pick was greeted with cautious optimism by Democratic leaders. Schu-mer said
Democrats were eager to work with Chao "if President-elect Trump is serious
about a major infrastructure bill, backed by real dollars and not just tax
credits and without cutting other programs like healthcare and education."

Trump made another overture to an establishment figure Tuesday when he and his
designated chief of staff, Reince Priebus, dined with their party's 2012
presidential nominee, Mitt Romney. It was Trump's second meeting with Romney,
who is said to be under consideration as secretary of State.

They met at Jean-Georges, a high-priced restaurant alongside Central Park in New
York. Asked by a reporter how the dinner was going, Trump flashed a thumbs-up.

--

noam.levey@latimes.com

Twitter: @noamlevey

noah.bierman@latimes.com

Twitter: @noahbierman

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DONALD TRUMP and his chief of staff-designate, Reince Priebus,
left, dine with Mitt Romney in New York on Tuesday night.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Drew
Angerer Getty Images PHOTO: DEMOCRATS denounced the choice of Rep. Tom Price
(R-Ga.), who's advocated for far-reaching entitlement changes, to lead Health
and Human Services.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Carolyn Kaster Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             944 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

Trump turns to Wall Street for Cabinet secretaries;
Treasury, Commerce picks are billionaire investors whose firms have tangled with
federal regulators.

BYLINE: Jim Puzzanghera

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Business Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


President-elect Donald Trump is adding two more billionaires to his proposed
Cabinet, including Wall Street executive Steven Mnuchin as Treasury secretary
and financier Wilbur Ross as head of Commerce, according to a person familiar
with the decision.

Mnuchin's deep roots on Wall Street fit the mold of past Treasury secretaries
but contrast with the populist stance that Trump took during his campaign.

Mnuchin, also a Hollywood movie producer and Trump's campaign finance chairman,
and Ross, known as the king of bankruptcy for his investments in distressed
properties, would be the second and third billionaire members of Trump's
Cabinet, joining Betsy DeVos, who is Trump's pick for Education secretary.

Mnuchin's selection -- which was first reported Tuesday by the New York Times --
drew ire from Democratic and liberal groups, which have accused him of profiting
from the financial crisis after buying the failed IndyMac Bank in 2009.

"So much for draining the swamp," said Adam Hodge, communications director for
the Democratic National Committee. He said Mnuchin "preyed on homeowners
struggling during the recession," calling Trump's pick "a slap in the face to
voters who hoped he would shake up Washington."

Officials with Trump's transition team declined to confirm Mnuchin's selection,
which may be announced as early as Wednesday.

Mnuchin, 53, co-chief executive of hedge fund Dune Capital Management, served as
chairman of the Pasadena-based bank, which was renamed OneWest Bank after he led
a group of investors to purchase it. The bank has been criticized for a large
number of foreclosures and hit by allegations of discrimination against
minorities. It also helped finance high-profile films such as "Suicide Squad,"
"American Sniper" and "Mad Max: Fury Road."

During the campaign, Trump sharply criticized his Democratic opponent, Hillary
Clinton, for being too cozy with Wall Street.

Now Trump has tapped Mnuchin, who spent 17 years at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., to
be one of the federal government's most important economic and financial
officials.

Mnuchin rose to partner and chief information officer at the legendary Wall
Street investment bank, where his father also had been a partner, before leaving
in 2002 to work with billionaire investor George Soros.

Two years later, Dune Capital Management was co-founded by Mnuchin as a spinoff
from Soros' firm.

If confirmed by the Senate, Mnuchin would be the third former Goldman executive
to become Treasury secretary in recent years, after Robert Rubin under President
Clinton and Henry M. Paulson under President George W. Bush.

As Mnuchin's name emerged as a leading candidate for the Treasury post, the
Progressive Change Campaign Committee called Mnuchin "a second-generation
Goldman Sachs banker who made a fortune by foreclosing on working families'
homes." The group criticized him for opposing tough Wall Street regulation.

Mnuchin would become a key player in world economics, meeting frequently with
foreign finance ministers, and in overseeing the U.S. tax and financial system.

He would take the helm of an agency whose regulatory responsibilities swelled
under the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law.

The Treasury secretary serves as chairman of the Financial Stability Oversight
Council, a panel of top regulators created by the law. Republicans have
criticized the council as wielding too much power.

The Treasury Department also includes the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, an independent agency that supervises national banks; the IRS; the
Bureau of Engraving and Printing; and the Mint.

Mnuchin is a Yale University graduate who is divorced with three children. He
owns a $26.5-million mansion in Bel-Air and has strong connections to Southern
California.

In 2009, Mnuchin and other investors put up about $1.6 billion in cash to
purchase IndyMac, one of the leading subprime mortgage lenders. They sold the
bank to CIT Group last year for $3.4 billion. Mnuchin now serves on CIT's board
of directors.

The deal was nearly derailed by complaints about OneWest's foreclosure
practices.

OneWest had agreed to participate in a federal program to modify the mortgages
of borrowers so that they would not lose their homes. But community groups said
the bank aggressively pursued foreclosures, particularly in minority areas.

In 2011, dozens of activists protested the practices on the lawn of Mnuchin's
22,000-square-foot Bel-Air home. That same year, the federal Office of Thrift
Supervision hit the bank with a regulatory order saying it had failed to follow
procedures when foreclosing on homeowners.

This month, two California advocacy groups asked federal housing regulators to
investigate OneWest over allegations that it discriminated against or failed to
serve minority communities.

The groups said OneWest had violated federal fair lending laws by "failing to
effectively market, offer and originate mortgage loans and other loan products
in communities of color."

The groups also said the bank has a below-average level of branch locations in
minority communities.

Ross, Trump's pick as Commerce secretary, would be the administration's chief
liaison with the business community and a leading advocate for U.S. trade
abroad.

Ross, 80, who was a senior policy advisor to Trump's campaign, is worth $2.9
billion, according to Forbes magazine.

Like Trump, Ross has been critical of U.S. trade deals. He sharply criticized
trade negotiators and called for the U.S. to withdraw from the
yet-to-be-ratified Trans-Pacific Partnership and to renegotiate the North
American Free Trade Agreement. Trump has pledged to do both upon taking office.

"I think there's a big difference between the impact of trade agreements on
corporate America and the impact on Mr. and Mrs. America," Ross said in an
August interview with CNBC. "What we're doing is we're exporting jobs and
importing products, instead of exporting products and keeping jobs."

He headed the bankruptcy practice at investment bank Rothschild Inc. for a
quarter-century before starting his own investment firm, WL Ross & Co., in 2000.

Ross sold his firm in 2006 to mutual fund company Amvescap in a deal that was
valued at the time at as much as $375 million. He is still the investment firm's
chairman and chief strategist.

In August, WL Ross & Co. agreed to a $2.3-million settlement with the Securities
and Exchange Commission to resolve an investigation into charges the company
failed to properly disclose fees to some investors.

--

jim.puzzanghera@latimes.com

Twitter: @JimPuzzanghera

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STEVEN MNUCHIN, 53, is a Wall Street executive and a Hollywood
producer.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Drew Angerer Getty Images PHOTO: STEVEN MNUCHIN, right,
with Trump campaign official Eli Miller, was chairman of OneWest Bank, whose
foreclosure practices drew complaints.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Drew Angerer Getty Images
PHOTO: WILBUR ROSS, Donald Trump's pick as Commerce secretary, has criticized
U.S. trade deals, including the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership.
PHOTOGRAPHER:John Angelillo Pool Photo

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Lead story

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             945 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

Speaking out for state's 'Dreamers';
Though universities unite to back DACA students, fear is high.

BYLINE: Rosanna Xia, Teresa Watanabe

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words


Leaders of California's three systems of public higher education sent a joint
letter to President-elect Donald Trump on Tuesday urging him to allow students
who are in the country illegally to continue their educations without fear of
deportation.

"These sons and daughters of undocumented immigrants are as American as any
other child across the nation" in all but the letter of the law, do not pose a
safety threat and have contributed to their communities, wrote University of
California President Janet Napolitano, Cal State Chancellor Timothy P. White and
Eloy Ortiz Oakley, chancellor-designate of California Community Colleges.

"They represent some of the best our nation has to offer," the three continued.
"They should be able to pursue their dream of higher education without fear of
being arrested, deported, or rounded up just for trying to learn.... we implore
you to let them know they are valued members of our communities and that they
will be allowed to continue to pursue the American dream."

Trump said during his campaign that he would reverse an Obama administration
program that deferred deportation proceedings against certain young people who
were brought to the country illegally as minors but stayed in school and out of
trouble. That program, known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA,
has approved applications nationally from nearly 742,000 people -- 214,000 of
whom live in California, the most of any state.

The California entreaty comes after more than 300 college presidents signed an
open letter to the country's leaders pushing for DACA to be continued and
expanded as a "moral imperative and a national necessity."

That earlier letter was initiated by Pomona College President David Oxtoby and
signed by leaders at campuses including Yale, Harvard, Stanford, USC, UC Davis,
Occidental College, Pitzer College and Scripps College.

It is not clear that students face immediate risk, however. Terry Hartle, senior
vice president of the American Council on Education, said that Trump's recent
statements suggest he may focus first on building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico
border and on deporting criminals.

California university officials say they also are heartened by state laws that
provide some of the nation's strongest protections to students who entered the
country illegally -- giving them access to driver's licenses, state financial
aid and in-state tuition, for instance.

Tens of thousands of these students have turned to UC, Cal State and California
community colleges for a shot at higher education. The systems do not track
students' immigration status, but the closest rough estimate comes from Assembly
Bill 540, a 2001 state law that enables some California students who are in the
U.S. illegally to qualify for in-state college tuition.

Last year, AB 540 waivers were issued to about 61,000 students at community
colleges, 10,000 at Cal State and 3,700 at UC. Overall, the three systems
educate 2.8 million students.

Administrators say the DACA program, which also gives access to work permits,
empowered more students to come out of the shadows. At UC, for instance, the
number of students who qualified for AB 540 waivers jumped from 885 in 2011 to
3,765 last year. Community colleges, Cal State and private campuses such as
Pomona also reported significant increases.

Students who are in the country illegally account today for about 4% of Pomona
College's 1,600 undergraduates.

"DACA -- not just for Pomona, but for the whole country -- has encouraged high
school students to take their studies more seriously and get into college,"
Oxtoby said. "Before DACA, they didn't see the reason to go on, because they
didn't see a future."

Oxtoby has personally assured students that Pomona will fill any financial aid
gaps should Trump end the program and their access to work permits. Pomona also
brought in an immigration lawyer to speak to students seeking legal advice and
advised those without legal status not to study abroad next semester "because we
just don't know what will happen when they try to return," Oxtoby said.

Ray Murillo, director of student programs at Cal State, the nation's largest
public university system, said students who are in the country illegally have,
since the election, feared deportation the most but also worry about their
ability to keep their jobs and pay for school. Before DACA, he said, students
had to find under-the-table work, typically with lower pay and poorer working
conditions. Now, he said, students can fill campus jobs, compete for internships
and study abroad -- activities that help them feel more connected to their
schools.

One oasis of support for such students is the Titan Dreamers Resource Center at
Cal State Fullerton, which opened in 2014 -- the first of eight such Cal State
centers. On Monday, it was filled with students doing homework and bonding with
classmates who shared their anxieties about the future.

Brenda Villa, a third-year undergraduate studying broadcast journalism and
economics, walked past hand-painted canvases that proclaimed "Undocumented and
Unafraid" and hugged a classmate. The threat that Trump would end DACA has
brought students closer together, she said.

She said the uncertainty of the future for herself, her friends and her family
hit her the morning after the election. She is trying to lead by example and
motivate her two younger sisters to succeed in college.

"I just started crying. It felt like someone close had died," she said. She
hoped to study abroad in 2018 and to graduate on time. Now she worries that
won't be possible.

One young woman who would give only her first name, Jessica, for fear of being
identified, said she graduated from Cal State Fullerton in 2012 without DACA,
working 18 hours a week under the table as a waitress to pay for school and help
her parents with rent. But she was devastated to find she could not accept a job
offer at the Head Start program that helped her when she was in preschool
because she had no legal work permit.

Under the DACA program, she was able to get the Head Start job. She worked there
for three years and went on to graduate school. She's well on her way to
realizing her dream of becoming a social worker in high schools or even starting
her own practice.

"My biggest concern now is, what's going to happen after I graduate?" she said.
"And then of course, there's that fear of deportation... what could happen to my
whole family."

Henoc Preciado, the center's coordinator, said the Trump victory triggered a
sense of hopelessness among many of the hundreds of students who visit. Some
began skipping classes and work; he referred one student to counselors after he
spoke of having suicidal thoughts, and said many others have sought mental
health services.

"For these students, when they don't yet know how they're going to protect
themselves or their family members, school is going to be secondary," he said.
"[DACA] is not just a policy, it's not just an executive action. These are
people whose lives are in limbo."

Napolitano, who heads the 10-campus, 252,000-student UC system, has a particular
interest in DACA, which she devised in 2012 when she was U.S. Homeland Security
secretary under President Obama. At the time, she said, the administration was
"stymied" by congressional inaction in its efforts to reform the nation's
immigration laws and offer a path to legalization for those here illegally.

In an interview Monday, Napolitano said she wanted Trump and others to
understand that the program is not a "blanket amnesty" as some have labeled it,
but requires an individual case review to screen each candidate for potential
safety threats, age requirements and other criteria. Nearly 65,000 cases were
denied as of June, according to federal immigration data.

Napolitano has convened a task force to examine the potential effect on students
of any actions by the incoming administration. All UC campuses have support
centers for students in the country illegally, offering academic aid, legal
advice and a wide variety of scholarships, fellowships and grants.

"We want to do everything we can to protect DACA students," Napolitano said.
"They have done everything society has asked of them except they were brought
here as children undocumented."

--

rosanna.xia@latimes.com

teresa.watanabe@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CAL STATE Fullerton student Brenda Villa is anxious about being
deported if the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, is
reversed.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Mark Boster Los Angeles Times PHOTO: AT CAL STATE
Fullerton's Titan Dreamers center, students can share their anxiety about the
future.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Mark Boster Los Angeles Times GRAPHIC: DACA recipients
CREDIT: Los Angeles Times

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Infographic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             946 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

Trump saves jobs, but at what cost?

BYLINE: Noah Bierman, Jim Puzzanghera

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1338 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


President-elect Donald Trump's newly announced agreement to save more than 1,000
jobs in Indiana gave him the kind of trophy he covets: a tangible victory that
matches his campaign promise to serve as deal maker in chief.

But the deal's long-term value will depend on what Trump gave up to keep those
factory jobs from going to Mexico and whether he is able to craft a successful
fiscal policy that has a broader impact on the economy.

"This is an unquestionably positive development for the workers who otherwise
would have lost these good jobs," said Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the
Center for Budget and Policy Priorities and former economic advisor to Vice
President Joe Biden.

"But to try to pick off jobs firm by firm with tax breaks and regulatory goodies
-- it won't work," he said. "That's just not sustainable."

Throughout his campaign, Trump railed relentlessly against Carrier Corp.'s
decision to ship 1,400 manufacturing jobs to Mexico, using it as an example of
all that was wrong with the U.S. economy and all that he would set right if
elected. He threatened to impose 35% tariffs and renegotiate trade deals with
Mexico to stop Carrier and other companies from outsourcing jobs.

Trump began speaking directly with Carrier's parent company, United Technology
Corp., after he won, securing a brief announcement late Tuesday from Carrier and
Trump that most of the jobs would no longer be shipped abroad.

But details of what Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence may have given up,
or the threats they may have lodged, remained elusive. Trump's team and Carrier
deferred the details until a formal announcement is made in Indianapolis on
Thursday.

Steven Mnuchin, Trump's newly announced choice for Treasury secretary, called
the deal a "terrific opportunity" for the incoming administration and said it
came about because Trump and Pence were willing to listen to businesses.

"The president-elect and the vice president[-elect] picked up the phone and
called the CEO of the United Technologies and told them we want to keep jobs
here," he told reporters at Trump Tower in New York on his way to meet with
Trump on Wednesday.

Yet the victory was largely symbolic. On an average day this year, the American
workforce added six times as many jobs.

Not only are the jobs saved a trifle for a U.S. economy adding an average of
181,000 jobs a month this year, but they are a tiny share of the 197,000
employees of United Technologies.

Carrier said Wednesday that "incentives offered by the state were an important
consideration" in keeping its gas furnace production in Indianapolis, as was
"the incoming administration's promises of a better business climate." The
company added that it still believes "in the benefits of free trade" and that
businesses need broader solutions to keep the country competitive.

The show of strength might send a signal of resolve to other companies
considering offshoring, and it buys Trump time to craft a policy to match one of
his top campaign promises.

Trump also offered sketchy details Wednesday about his latest efforts to wall
off his businesses from the appearance of conflict of interest that have dogged
him since he won the election and continued to meet with business partners.

"Legal documents are being crafted which take me completely out of business
operations. The presidency is a far more important task!" he tweeted.

Trump promised to provide new details on his plans during a Dec. 15 news
conference, but offered few answers to how he would prevent a conflict, given
that his children plan to retain full control. Trump and his aides did not say
whether he would relinquish ownership.

The Carrier deal's merits will depend heavily on specifics as well. Trump's
staff said Wednesday that Pence, who remains governor of Indiana until Jan. 9
and has a history of offering economic incentives to private industry, was
heavily involved in negotiations with Carrier, which makes heating and cooling
equipment. Pence's office declined to answer questions.

As the incoming president, Trump has significant leverage with United
Technologies, a major defense contractor. In 2015, the company had $5.6 billion
in sales to the federal government, 10% of its total sales, according to United
Technologies' annual report.

That federal business might have been a factor in Carrier's decision to keep
jobs in the U.S., said John Eade, director of portfolio strategy at investment
research firm Argus Research.

"My guess is that the new administration offered some carrots -- potential for
lower taxes, a potential change in trade policies, etc. -- as well as a stick:
less certainty on U.S. government contracts, which are significant for several
of United Technologies' other businesses," he said.

"Plus, I am sure Carrier wants to move out of the national spotlight on this
issue," Eade said.

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, whose left-wing populism during the Democratic
presidential primary tapped some of the same issues as Trump's anti-globalist
message, said over the weekend that Trump needed "to make it clear to the CEO of
United Technologies that if his firm wants to receive another defense contract
from the taxpayers of this country, it must not move these plants to Mexico."

The Carrier deal could prompt other companies to try the same tactic, predicted
Dan Ikenson, director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the libertarian
Cato Institute.

"It creates a short-term political victory for the president-elect, but it opens
up a Pandora's box in the sense that other companies are going to want the same
sort of handout," he said. "It's better to have an overall policy that companies
can bank on."

Indiana state Sen. Tim Lanane, who leads the Democratic minority in the chamber,
said Pence had yet to reveal details of the deal. But most of the breaks he
offered in the past, including tax incentives and credits, would not need
legislative approval.

Lanane noted that Pence was unsuccessful in persuading Carrier to stay when it
initially announced plans to move, in February. Lanane said the state had a
spotty record in ensuring that companies stick to their promises after receiving
subsidies.

"Does there come a point where you just can't do that every time?" Lanane said.

Pence and his Economic Development Corp. have approved $24 million in tax breaks
for 10 companies that sent work abroad, failing in several cases to recover
money from companies that laid off employees in the state, the Indianapolis Star
reported during the campaign.

Trump has said his broader plan to stop manufacturing jobs from leaving the U.S.
is to lower the corporate tax rate and renegotiate trade deals to reduce the
incentives to leave.

Trump's staff also highlighted the president-elect's personal involvement,
saying it was a sign of things to come as he works to keep jobs from fleeing.
The style is unlikely to work on a larger scale, given the volume of companies
that could opt to move manufacturing jobs. It may even provide an incentive for
other companies to lodge similar threats in hopes of winning government
give-backs.

But it could also prove a political asset that may help Trump move some of his
economic policies through a GOP-controlled Congress that remains skeptical of
his anti-globalist trade policy.

Bernstein said the Carrier deal also highlighted the different backgrounds and
approaches of Trump and President Obama, a former university professor who has
gathered business leaders and academics at the White House in the past to
address such weighty economic issues.

Trump is "much more comfortable calling up a CEO and admonishing him than he is
sitting around a table with a bunch of policy wonks talking about the best way
to change the incentive structure," Bernstein said. "But if you're going to
solve the economics of this, you've got to get at the incentive structure. You
can't simply be handing out goodies to every single company that's planning to
relocate."

--

noah.bierman@latimes.com

Twitter: @noahbierman

jim.puzzanghera@latimes.com

Twitter: @JimPuzzanghera

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PRESIDENT-ELECT TRUMP, shown at a rally in April, often railed
during the campaign against Carrier Corp.'s plan to ship 1,400 manufacturing
jobs to Mexico. Carrier now says most of the jobs will stay.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Scott
Olson Getty Images PHOTO: THE INDIANAPOLIS plant where Carrier will retain about
1,000 jobs. Analysts aren't clear how the "short-term political victory" will
affect other companies.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Darron Cummings Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             947 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

Choice for Treasury is already polarizing;
Trump's selection of Steve Mnuchin, a former Goldman Sachs partner, is cheered
by Wall Street and chided by advocates of financial reform

BYLINE: James Rufus Koren, Jim Puzzanghera

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words


President-elect Donald Trump's naming of veteran Wall Street banker and
hedge-fund manager Steve Mnuchin to be the next Treasury secretary quickly
turned into a polarizing appointment on Wednesday as financiers cheered the
selection while watchdog groups warned that it could lead to rollbacks of
crucial post-crisis regulations.

Mnuchin, who was a Goldman Sachs partner before starting Dune Capital Management
and later running Pasadena lender OneWest Bank, confirmed the appointment in an
early morning appearance on CNBC. He appeared alongside billionaire investor
Wilbur Ross, who was named Commerce secretary.

Mnuchin said his top priorities would be to hasten economic growth and job
creation through tax cuts and a loosening of post-crisis financial regulations.

"We're really going to be focused on economic growth and creating jobs," said
Mnuchin, 53, whose appointment must be confirmed by the Senate. "Our most
important priority is sustained economic growth."

He boldly predicted the economy could sustain an annual growth rate of as high
as 4%, about twice as fast as the economy has grown since 2009.

Mnuchin, who served as Trump's campaign finance chairman, had long been
considered a top contender for the Treasury post, though his selection runs
counter to the the anti-establishment rhetoric of the Trump campaign.

Throughout this year's presidential campaign, Trump criticized Democratic
candidate Hillary Clinton for being too cozy with Wall Street.

A Trump ad that aired during the final days of the campaign called hedge fund
manger George Soros -- a Clinton supporter who is a business associate of
Mnuchin -- someone who controls "the levers of power in Washington."

It also implied that Goldman Sachs, where Mnuchin's father also was a partner,
has been the beneficiary of policies that have "robbed our working class." The
add featured footage of Goldman Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein at a Clinton
Global Initiative event.

Mnuchin spent 17 years at Goldman before leaving in 2002 to work with Soros.
Later, he started Dune Capital, a hedge fund that was his entree to Hollywood.
An offshoot of Dune Capital financed Hollywood blockbusters including "American
Sniper" and "Mad Max: Fury Road."

Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), a leading financial industry critic, called
Mnuchin "the Forrest Gump of the financial crisis" because he "managed to
participate in all the worst practices on Wall Street" during his lengthy
career.

"His selection as Treasury secretary should send shivers down the spine of every
American who got hit hard by the financial crisis, and is the latest sign that
Donald Trump has no intention of draining the swamp and every intention of
running Washington to benefit himself and his rich buddies," she said.

Dennis Kelleher, chief executive of Better Markets, a nonprofit that advocates
for tighter Wall Street regulation, called Trump's Treasury pick and promises of
looser financial rules "a flip-flop of historic proportion."

"We had candidate Trump who got elected promising to drain the swamp of special
interests," Kelleher said. "Now we have President-elect Trump promoting the
biggest swamp-dwellers into his administration."

But those establishment credentials don't worry some Trump supporters, including
Tim Donnelly, a hard-right conservative who served two terms in the California
Assembly and ran unsuccessfully for governor in 2014.

During that campaign, he pilloried fellow Republican candidate Neel Kashkari --
currently serving as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis -- for
his role in overseeing the federal bank bailout program in 2008 and 2009.

"If [Trump] picked someone like Jamie Dimon or Blankfein or one of those guys
from the old guard, that would be the establishment," Donnelly said Wednesday.
"We're counting on him putting successful people in charge of executing. The
execution is more important than the purity."

The president-elect's transition team was reportedly considering other
candidates, including Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Rep.
Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.

Any of those choices probably would have been cheered by Wall Street -- Dimon is
one of the banking industry's top executives and Hensarling has called for
rolling back financial regulation.

Though Mnuchin is less well known, his selection drew praise from Tim Pawlenty,
head of the Financial Services Roundtable, a Washington organization that
represents the nation's largest banking and financial services companies.

"Steve is a seasoned and results-oriented leader who is really smart, interested
in public policy and understands the urgent need to boost economic growth and
opportunity," said Pawlenty, a former Republican governor of Minnesota.

But how Mnuchin might seek to boost growth has consumer advocates and Wall
Street critics nervous.

During the campaign, Trump said he would seek to dismantle much of the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, a sweeping 2010 bill that sought to rein in
big banks and prevent another financial crisis.

Mnuchin said on CNBC that he does not want a wholesale repeal, but does want to
make substantial changes.

"We want to strip back parts of Dodd-Frank that restrict banks from lending,"
Mnuchin said. "The No. 1 priority will be to make sure banks lend."

Kelleher said that Mnuchin should instead subject more financial firms to the
kind of strict scrutiny now reserved for the largest banks.

"If you have a Treasury secretary who doesn't think that type of regulation is
appropriate, the country is going to end up in a disastrous situation. The
American people will once again be surprised with the equivalent of another
AIG," Kelleher said, referring to the massive insurance company that had to be
bailed out in 2008.

For Democrats and consumer advocates, hearing Mnuchin talk about a rollback of
Dodd-Frank is troubling given his recent history in the banking business.
Mnuchin in 2009 led a group of wealthy investors -- including Soros and Michael
Dell -- who bought failed Pasadena mortgage lender IndyMac and turned it into
OneWest Bank.

Mnuchin's group netted billions thanks in large part to a much-criticized deal
that allowed the investors to buy the bank at a big discount while passing off
as much as 75% of its loan losses on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Mnuchin
and his group paid about $1.6 billion for the bank and sold it last year to New
Jersey lender CIT Group for $3.4 billion.

Between the sale price and hefty dividends paid out from 2011 to 2015, Mnuchin
and his group made a profit of more than $4 billion. It's not clear how much of
a profit Mnuchin personally made, because his stake in OneWest was undisclosed.

Despite its secure financial footing, OneWest had a history of problems with
regulators over its foreclosure practices and lending and has been accused of
being unwilling to work with borrowers seeking mortgage loan modifications
despite promises to do so. Community groups have accused the bank of being
particularly aggressive about foreclosing on properties in minority
neighborhoods.

In 2011, dozens of activists protested the practices on the lawn of Mnuchin's
22,000-square-foot Bel-Air mansion. That same year, the federal Office of Thrift
Supervision hit the bank with a regulatory order saying it had failed to follow
procedures when foreclosing on homeowners.

Similar complaints nearly derailed the CIT deal last year and continue to dog
the now-combined institutions. Two California advocacy groups this month asked
the federal Housing and Urban Development Department to investigate OneWest and
CIT, accusing them of failing to make mortgage loans or locate branches in
minority communities, and not properly maintaining foreclosed homes in those
communities. HUD is already investigating OneWest's reverse-mortgage business.

"Steve Mnuchin ran a foreclosure machine," said Paulina Gonzalez, executive
director of the California Reinvestment Coalition, which fought the CIT-OneWest
deal and is one of the groups asking HUD to investigate the banks for
discrimination.

Mnuchin, a divorced father of three who graduated from Yale, defended OneWest on
Wednesday.

"We bought the worst mortgage portfolio in the history of time," he said of
IndyMac, adding that the bad loans that led to the foreclosures had been
originated before his purchase of the bank.

"We saved a lot of jobs and we created a lot of opportunities for corporate
loans," he said.

--

james.koren@latimes.com

Twitter: @jrkoren

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 2014 PROTEST outside OneWest Bank in Pasadena. A group led by
Steve Mnuchin netted billions from the sale of the bank last year.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Gary Friedman Los Angeles Times PHOTO: STEVE MNUCHIN,
President-elect Donald Trump's nominee for Treasury secretary, talks with
reporters Wednesday in the lobby of Trump Tower in New York. At one time he led
Pasadena lender OneWest Bank.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Evan Vucci Associated Press PHOTO:
TARA INDEN is among protesters outside a OneWest Bank in 2014. The Pasadena bank
had a history of problems over foreclosure practices.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Gary
Friedman Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             948 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

COMPANY TOWN;
Breitbart News lashes out amid advertisers' exit;
The platform for the alt-right calls move by cereal giant Kellogg 'un-American.'

BYLINE: David Ng

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words


The Breitbart News Network is seeing some of its advertisers head for the exit
doors and is responding in typical Breitbart fashion: by going on the
counteroffensive, labeling one of them as "un-American" and calling it a war on
conservatism.

Since Donald Trump's victory in the presidential election, Los Angeles-based
Breitbart has experienced a backlash from some advertisers who say that the
online site conflicts with their corporate values.

Breitbart took a pro-Trump stance during the campaign, supporting the Republican
candidate's views on immigration and national security. The company's executive
chairman, Steve Bannon, who is on a leave of absence, was Trump's campaign
manager and has been named chief White House strategist.

Although Bannon was quoted in Mother Jones as saying Breitbart is a platform for
the alt-right -- the ultraconservative movement associated with white
nationalism -- the news site has denied accusations that it engages in racist
rhetoric. The company has stated that it isn't affiliated with the alt-right and
that the brand of nationalism it espouses is political, not racial.

Breitbart is fighting back at one of the advertisers -- the breakfast cereal
maker Kellogg Co. -- by launching a Twitter campaign #DumpKelloggs that
encourages its readers to sign a petition and boycott the maker of such
favorites as Froot Loops and Apple Jacks.

On Wednesday, Breitbart placed an article about its #DumpKellogs campaign in the
top slot of its homepage. By early afternoon, the article had drawn more than
6,000 reader comments, many in support of the boycott.

"Kellogg's decision to blacklist one of the largest conservative media outlets
in America is economic censorship of mainstream conservative political
discourse. That is as un-American as it gets," Breitbart said in a statement.

The site said it has a community of 45 million loyal readers "who are also a
powerful consumer group that reflects the values of mainstreet America."

In October, the site drew 19.2 million unique visitors, up nearly 50% from 12.9
million visitors in the same month last year, according to data from ComScore.

The Kellogg Co. said in a statement that it regularly works with media buying
partners to "ensure our ads do not appear on sites that aren't aligned with our
values as set forth in our advertising guidelines."

Kellogg's guidelines state that it won't place ads in media that "encourages
offensive behavior to others, or where the media is not consistent with our
product or corporate image."

The cereal company said that it advertises on a large number of websites, "so
occasionally something is inadvertently missed. In this case, we learned from
consumers that ads were placed on Breitbart.com and decided to discontinue
advertising there."

It is common for companies to buy online ads through third-party networks or ad
exchanges that place the ads on numerous sites. As a result, many companies may
not be aware of the sites on which their ads ultimately appear.

Other companies that have pulled their ads from Breitbart in recent weeks
include insurance giant Allstate and the ad exchange AppNexus.

"We determined that the site violates our hate speech prohibition," said Josh
Zeitz, a spokesman for AppNexus.

He said that Breitbart was never a direct client but that some of AppNexus'
technology partners made Breitbart's inventory available on its exchange.

A spokeswoman for Allstate declined to comment.

It remains unclear how much the loss in ad revenue will hurt Breitbart. The
media company is privately held and doesn't discuss its business operations. But
Chief Executive Larry Solov recently told the Los Angeles Times that the company
relies on advertising for the majority of its revenue and that it uses multiple
ad networks.

The company said Wednesday that Kellogg's decision "will make virtually no
revenue impact." It said the move by Kellogg and other companies represents an
escalation in the war "against conservative customers whose values propelled
Donald Trump into the White House."

Breitbart is rumored to receive significant backing from hedge fund billionaire
Robert Mercer, who has been a key supporter of Trump. The site was founded a
decade ago by journalist Andrew Breitbart, who died in 2012, and has an
editorial staff of about 100 worldwide.

The site has seen a surge in popularity in the months leading up to the election
and is planning to expand its footprint into France and Germany to capitalize on
the nationalist movements gaining steam in Europe as a result of the continent's
refugee crisis.

On Wednesday, some of Breitbart's top brass took to social media to take aim at
the advertising defectors, describing Kellogg as "bigotry for breakfast."

"Far, far, far more bigotry comes from the left than the right," Alex Marlow,
Breitbart's editor in chief, said on Twitter.

--

david.ng@latimes.com

Twitter: @DavidNgLAT

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: KELLOGG SAID it works with partners to ensure ads don't appear
on sites not aligned with its values.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Jerome Adamstein Los Angeles
Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             949 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                  Home Edition

UC vows to shield migrant students;
University system says it won't aid U.S. immigration agents.

BYLINE: Teresa Watanabe

SECTION: CALIFORNIA; Metro Desk; Part B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 716 words


The University of California announced sweeping actions Wednesday to protect its
students who came into the country illegally, saying it would refuse to assist
federal immigration agents, turn over confidential records without court orders
or supply information for any national registry based on race, national origin
or religion.

"While we still do not know what policies and practices the incoming federal
administration may adopt, given the many public pronouncements made during the
presidential campaign and its aftermath, we felt it necessary to reaffirm that
UC will act upon its deeply held conviction that all members of our community
have the right to work, study, and live safely and without fear at all UC
locations," UC President Janet Napolitano said in a statement.

Napolitano said the university would "vigorously protect the privacy and civil
rights of the undocumented members of the UC community."

The policies, described as a statement of principles, mark the first unified
approach toward federal immigration issues for the system's 10 campuses,
according to UC spokeswoman Dianne Klein.

Napolitano formed a task force to examine possible actions shortly after the
presidential election of Donald Trump stirred widespread unease and uncertainty
on campuses.

UC does not track students' immigration status but says about 3,700 have
obtained in-state tuition benefits under AB 540, a 2001 law designed to help
those in the country illegally.

The UC president announced the new policies a day after she and the heads of the
California State University and California Community Colleges sent a joint
letter to President-elect Trump urging him to allow students without legal
status to continue their educations.

Trump, during his campaign, had said he would reverse an Obama administration
program Napolitano created as Homeland Security secretary that deferred
deportation proceedings against certain young people who stayed in school and
out of trouble. That program has helped nearly 720,000 young people nationally
and 214,000 in California apply for work permits and continue their studies
without fear of deportation.

The new policies heartened students such as Benyamin bin Mohd Yusof, who was
brought illegally to the country from Brunei when he was 2 years old and is now
a senior at UC Berkeley.

But while the UC protections will help him, he said, he worried about those not
able to benefit from them.

"Where will that protection be for my mother and brother?" he said. "We have to
do more for undocumented students and others everywhere."

Among the new UC principles:

* Campus police will not assist local, state or federal agents to investigate,
detain or arrest students for violations of federal immigration law.

* Police also will be told not to contact, detain, question or arrest
individuals solely on suspicion of immigration violations.

* No confidential student records will be released without a judicial warrant,
subpoena or court order unless authorized by the student or required by law.

* UC will continue to admit all eligible students without regard to immigration
status and take the same stance in treatment of patients at its medical centers.

University police should use their limited resources to build community trust
and a "safe and secure environment" on campus rather than to assist in
immigration cases, which is a federal responsibility, the statement said.

Campus police also will decline requests by federal immigration agents to detain
any individuals unless their assistance is required by law or the individuals
are wanted for serious or violent felonies. The California attorney general has
concluded that compliance with such requests is voluntary.

In addition, UC will not cooperate with any effort to compile a federal registry
of selected groups of people -- such as one for Muslims, suggested by Trump
during his campaign.

"A federal effort to create a registry based on any protected characteristics
... would be antithetical to the United States Constitution, the California
Constitution, federal and state laws, and principles of nondiscrimination that
guide our university," the statement said.

In November, Cal State affirmed that it would not help local, state or federal
authorities enforce federal immigration law.

--

teresa.watanabe@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             950 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

Garcetti aims for balance with Trump

BYLINE: Dakota Smith

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Metro Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words


Before election day, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti didn't hold back when it
came to Donald Trump.

"He's a racist. He's a bigot. He's sexist," Garcetti told reporters in May,
criticizing the Republican presidential hopeful for his views on the economy,
immigration and women, among other things. "What we cannot do with Donald Trump
is normalize him as a candidate."

That kind of criticism was common for Democratic leaders in deep-blue
California, where slamming Trump brought few political risks.

But since Trump's victory, Garcetti has adopted a more civil tone. They spoke by
phone last week, and Garcetti has expressed his willingness to work with the
president-elect on infrastructure and the economy.

At the same time, Garcetti has offered assurances that the city won't aid Trump
on any widespread crackdown against immigrants who are in the country without
authorization.

It amounts to a political tightrope walk by Garcetti -- an approach that could
help the city in significant ways but may disappoint groups that want the mayor
to take a harder line against Trump, especially on immigration.

"If Trump plays him for a fool, Garcetti is going to look bad," said Brent
Wilkes, national executive director of the League of United Latin American
Citizens. "And there will be progressives that are angry that he didn't take a
tougher stance."

Garcetti represents a city slated to receive $500 million in federal funding
this year -- money for homeless shelters, port security and more. The city is
also locked in an international competition to bring the 2024 Olympics to Los
Angeles.

He's also one of several mayors who represent large, diverse Democratic-majority
cities who now must work with a Republican-controlled Congress and White House.

But unlike New York's Bill de Blasio or Chicago's Rahm Emanuel, Garcetti doesn't
have a "rough temper," said Jaime Regalado, emeritus professor of political
science at Cal State L.A.

"Eric's not one to pick fights," Regalado said. "He's one to make things work by
building consensus, by working behind the scenes."

Flanked by teens at a Boyle Heights high school last week, Garcetti seemed to
appeal directly to Trump as he talked about deportation concerns. According to
Los Angeles school board President Steve Zimmer, about one-fourth of L.A.
Unified's 600,000 students are in the country without legal permission or have a
family member with that status.

"I'm hoping his heart will be touched by understanding that we have folks who
are undocumented that serve in our armed forces," Garcetti said. "That we have
families that are blended ... different status."

In contrast, de Blasio delivered a 40-minute address in front of hundreds of
city workers, politicians and faith leaders that same day in New York, vowing to
sue if Muslims are required to register and to assist women if Planned
Parenthood of New York lost federal funding.

De Blasio also launched a hashtag, #AlwaysNewYork, seen as symbol of resistance
to Trump's presidency.

Emanuel also garnered headlines when he said Chicago would remain a "sanctuary
city" for immigrants.

Garcetti refuses to call Los Angeles a "sanctuary city," saying the term is not
accurate.

The phrase dates to the 1980s, when U.S. immigration policies allowed some
Central American immigrants entry, but not others. In response, Berkeley and a
few other municipalities declared themselves "sanctuary cities" to accept those
migrants.

Some L.A. immigration groups say Garcetti should declare Los Angeles a
"sanctuary city," technical inaccuracy or not.

"I know he's a professor and that's where he comes from, and he's trying to
educate people about sanctuary cities," said Angelica Salas, executive director
of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, referencing
Garcetti's past work teaching at Occidental College. "But let's just embrace it,
and say, 'This is what we are.' "

Salas' group and other local immigrant rights advocates, unions and legal
organizations sent a letter last week to Garcetti and other elected officials
calling for more aggressive action in the face of possible deportations.

The letter didn't single out politicians but warned that "abstract statements
and vague promises will not be enough to confront the threat we now face."

Among other things, the groups want city and county funding for legal
representation for immigrants in deportation proceedings, and stronger
assurances the Sheriff's Department and Los Angeles Police Department won't work
with Immigration and Customs Enforcement to crack down on immigrants.

While praising Garcetti's work in helping immigrants, Betty Hung, policy
director for Asian Americans Advancing Justice-LA, said in a statement that the
mayor should "rise to the challenge of demonstrating strong and bold leadership
to show unequivocally -- in concrete policies and actions -- that Los Angeles
will hold the line."

Garcetti's office didn't respond to a request for comment about the letter, and
the mayor declined to be interviewed for this story.

In public statements, he frequently puts the battle over immigration in economic
terms, saying mass deportations would hurt the Southern California economy, and
that the region depends on the labor and tax dollars of non-citizens.

He also mentions his own immigrant family, including his grandfather who was
brought from Mexico as a baby.

Garcetti brought up immigration in his call with Trump, stressing the important
role immigrants play in L.A.'s economy and the need for immigration reform,
according to a statement released by the mayor's office.

The statement did not indicate what, if anything, Trump said about immigration,
though it did highlight his support for L.A.'s Olympic bid.

As Garcetti seeks to forge working ties with someone he not so long ago derided
as "the ultimate caricature of a politician," some are waiting to see if the
more measured approach pays off.

Said Wilke of the League of United Latin American Citizens: "If Garcetti thinks
he has a shot with Donald Trump, let's just let that play out."

--

dakota.smith@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: L.A. MAYOR Eric Garcetti has eased up on his criticism of
President-elect Donald Trump. They spoke last week by phone, and the mayor said
he's willing to work with Trump on infrastructure and the economy. Above, the
mayor at Theodore Roosevelt High School last week.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Patrick T.
Fallon For The Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             951 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

Trump picks Defense secretary;
Retired general will need a waiver because he hasn't been out of the military
for long.

BYLINE: W.J. Hennigan

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


President-elect Donald Trump has chosen James N. Mattis, a highly respected
retired Marine four-star general, to head the Defense Department, filling in a
critical national security position in the emerging Cabinet.

Mattis served 44 years in the Marine Corps before he retired in 2013. He headed
U.S. Central Command in his final three years and oversaw the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan as well as other military operations in the Middle East.

Trump announced his pick Thursday night at a rally in Cincinnati, urging his
supporters to keep the news quiet. "We're not announcing it until Monday so
don't tell anybody," he joked.

He compared Mattis to Gen. George Patton, the legendary front-line general who
helped liberate Europe in World War II.

Unmarried all his life, Mattis, 66, was known as a hard-charging but scholarly
figure who issued heavy reading lists to subordinates and who carried
"Meditations" by Marcus Aurelius on his deployments.

In speeches, he was as likely to quote from Shakespeare or an ancient Greek poet
as from traditional military strategists Carl von Clausewitz or Sun Tzu. His
nicknames included "Mad Dog" and "Warrior Monk."

"He is the combination of strategic thinker and successful operator at all
levels of warfare," said retired Marine Maj. Gen. Arnold Punaro, author of "On
War and Politics: The Battlefield Inside Washington's Beltway." "His entire life
has been learning about and implementing a strong national defense."

The GOP-led Congress would need to grant Mattis a waiver to confirm him as head
of the Pentagon because he has not been out of uniform for seven years. The
limit was set under a law intended to maintain civilian control of the military.

Winning a waiver shouldn't be difficult. Mattis has powerful backers in
Congress, including Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who chairs the Armed Services
Committee, which is responsible for overseeing the confirmation process.

"Gen. Mattis is one of the finest military officers of his generation and an
extraordinary leader who inspires a rare and special admiration of his troops,"
McCain said after Mattis first emerged as a candidate.

Mattis clashed with White House aides before he retired over the Obama
administration's outreach to Iran, which he considered unwise. He was openly
critical of the Iran nuclear deal that was signed after he left the military.

Mattis shares a deep distrust of Iran with Trump and Michael Flynn, a retired
Army general who Trump has named as White House national security advisor.
During the campaign, Trump called for ripping up or revising the nuclear deal.

"Among all the issues facing us in the Middle East, I think Iran is actually
foremost," Mattis said in April at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies think tank in Washington. "And yet at the same time, it appears here in
Washington that we've forgotten how to keep certain issues foremost."

But more recently Mattis has said that it's too late to rip up the Iran deal
because it's being implemented by the world powers who negotiated it with
Tehran: the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and
Germany.

Whether he and Trump share the same worldview in other areas is unclear.

Trump pledged during the campaign to scale back America's military involvement
around the globe; Mattis has always espoused a muscular role to advance U.S.
interests overseas.

Mattis has embraced diplomatic efforts to craft a two-state solution in Israel,
backed Obama administration efforts to provide weapons to Syrian rebels, and
supports the NATO military alliance, all issues where he and Trump may disagree.

"We need to stay engaged in the world and resist isolationism," Mattis said in
August in a speech at Washington State University.

Mattis already has had an impact on Trump's thinking. In a recent interview with
the New York Times, the president-elect indicated he was reconsidering his calls
for waterboarding terrorism suspects after talking to Mattis.

"He said -- I was surprised -- he said, 'I've never found it to be useful,'"
Trump said. "He said, 'I've always found, give me a pack of cigarettes and a
couple of beers and I do better with that than I do with torture.' And I was
very impressed by that answer."

If confirmed, Mattis would oversee a Pentagon that is battling Islamic State in
Iraq and Syria, has lost ground to a renewed insurgency in Afghanistan, is
grappling with Russian aggression in Ukraine and is facing a growing Chinese
presence in the South China Sea.

Trump has vowed to boost Pentagon spending for more soldiers, ships and
aircraft, and this week said he would seek a new strategy for cyberdefense.

Mattis is best-known for leading U.S. Marines into the battle of Fallouja in
Iraq in late 2004.

Since retiring, he has served on several corporate boards, including General
Dynamics and Theranos.

--

william.hennigan@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JAMES N. MATTIS, 66, headed the U.S. Central Command.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Drew Angerer Getty Images

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Appointment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             952 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

White House billionaires club;
Wealthiest Cabinet will be tasked with serving populist agenda

BYLINE: Don Lee

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1512 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


Dwight Eisenhower surrounded himself in the White House with such wealthy
individuals that his Cabinet was mockingly referred to as "nine millionaires and
a plumber."

President-elect Donald Trump is about to do him one better.

Trump won the election by appealing to America's disaffected working class,
promising to drain the Washington swamp of insiders, and railing against
segments of the financial elite. But the New York businessman has tapped a slate
of people very much in his own vein to serve alongside him -- billionaires and
multimillionaires, including Wall Street financiers, industrialists and scions
of the super-rich.

"Trump's appointees will probably wind up being the most wealthy group of people
who have served in a presidential Cabinet in history," said Robert Spitzer,
author of five books on American presidents and chairman of the political
science department at SUNY in Cortland, N.Y.

Trump's choice for Commerce secretary, investor Wilbur Ross, is worth some $2.5
billion by Forbes' account, and Ross' likely deputy, Chicago Cubs co-owner Todd
Ricketts, is in the billionaires club too. Betsy DeVos, selected to head the
Department of Education, is a billionaire philanthropist whose husband is heir
to the Amway fortune.

Banker and movie financier Steven Mnuchin, Trump's pick for Treasury secretary,
and others who are key members of Trump's transition team or in the running for
still-unannounced Cabinet posts, including secretaries of State and Energy, are
by and large very well off.

Spitzer and other scholars note that there is nothing unusual about a president
appointing rich people to top administration positions. President Obama's
Cabinet includes Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker, a billionaire businesswoman.

Nor is doing so necessarily an indicator of success or failure. Eisenhower, a
career military man who was not particularly wealthy, liked being around
self-made people, and is regarded by historians as an effective commander in
chief. George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, two of the most highly acclaimed
American presidents, were very rich by the standards of their day.

Trump stands to become the wealthiest person to occupy the Oval Office, with a
net worth estimated by Forbes at $4.5 billion.

And just as his wealth did not bother his supporters, many of them don't seem to
mind that he is now tapping others from the super-rich club.

"I'm not surprised he's appointing billionaires. He's going to pick what he
knows," said Gayle Stafford, 49, a middle school teacher who lives in a suburb
of Cincinnati and voted for Trump. She acknowledged that Trump "talked about
getting rid of that kind of thing," but added, "I would hate to classify anyone
who's wealthy as someone who can't get the job done."

Of course, today's economic times are different from Eisenhower's, which
launched a kind of golden age of broad-based prosperity when there seemed to be
little downside to globalization and technology.

The recent decades of manufacturing decline, stagnant earnings and growing
income inequality have hardened feelings that the nation's richest 1%, and the
politicians who support and protect them, are out of touch with ordinary
citizens and their needs.

"Part of the point of a diverse Cabinet, besides the PR value -- a Cabinet that
looks like America -- is the diversity of views and experience it brings,
shaping the advice the president gets," said Andrew Rudalevige, professor of
government at Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine. "There might not be a variety
of political or policy instincts in a Cabinet of '14 billionaires and a
millionaire' -- or however it comes out."

Referring to Martin Durkin, Eisenhower's Labor secretary and former head of the
plumbers union who was singled out in the old joke as the only nonmillionaire,
Rudalevige said,"Trump's picks seem far more ideological. And no plumber yet."

Even Stafford said she was worried that DeVos may end up sapping public schools
in a drive to promote school vouchers and charter schools.

"She is very wealthy.... She's sent her own kids to private schools," said
Stafford, who has 22 years of teaching experience at both public and private
schools. "Is she going to give public schools a chance?"

During his campaign, Trump argued his own elite status and wealth actually made
him more qualified to take on the establishment and change the rules that once
served him.

But critics wonder whether Trump's Cabinet choices will share that goal, or be
tempted to skew policies toward the wealthy, not the working class.

Mnuchin this week sought to allay such concerns: "There will be no absolute tax
cut for the upper class," he said on CNBC.

However, that doesn't square with the tax plan proposed a few months ago by
Trump and his economic team -- to cut taxes by roughly $6 trillion over 10
years, with a sharp lowering of top tax rates and other changes that would
largely benefit corporations and higher-income individuals.

Democratic leaders fear that the Trump administration will be overly
pro-business and weaken regulations against banks and other firms.

Beyond policy, government watchdog and ethics lawyers are concerned that the
extraordinary wealth of Trump and his White House create personal temptations
and conflicts. Graft scandals marred Presidents Warren G. Harding and Ulysses S.
Grant, whose Cabinets also were stacked with rich individuals.

After Watergate there were stronger conflict-of-interest rules for executive
branch officials, including Cabinet members. Trump's appointees would have to
divest any holdings relevant to their new jobs and recuse themselves from areas
where they might have a financial interest.

"Presidential appointees may not have personal financial interests that will be
directly and particularly affected in a substantial way by their decisions as
government officials," said Robert Lenhard, a senior attorney at Covington &
Burling who was a member of the Federal Election Commission in 2006 and 2007.

Obama took the additional step of requiring his Cabinet members to resign from
company boards they sat on.

Former Goldman Sachs chief Henry M. Paulson sold several hundred millions of
dollars in Goldman stock after the Senate confirmed his appointment as President
Bush's Treasury secretary in 2006, although he also reportedly took advantage of
a tax break designed to make it easier for the rich to accept government jobs,
which allowed him to defer paying capital gains when he sold.

The rules are likely to trigger extensive vetting of Trump's super-wealthy
Cabinet members, who will face pressure to step down from corporate boards, sell
off certain stock holdings and put assets into blind trusts for the duration of
their terms.

Ross, in particular, faces a lot of work to clear all his financial tie-ups,
including board seats and interests with companies involved in banking, energy
and transportation. Mnuchin, like Paulson, may have to convert his investments
into Treasury notes.

The president, however, is exempt from such federal ethics laws. By tradition
presidents in recent decades have put their investments in blind trusts, in
which stocks and other assets are managed, bought and sold by an independent
third party, without the knowledge of the owner. It is intended to remove the
appearance and possibility of self-dealing.

Government ethics lawyers and watchdog groups have urged him to sell off his
vast businesses, which include hotels, golf courses and office buildings, and
put the assets in a blind trust, but Trump said last week that he had been
turning over operations of his businesses to three of his children, who already
have senior positions at the Trump Organization.

And he said this week that on Dec. 15 he would reveal a plan to avoid conflicts
of interest while serving as president, although there was no indication that he
was preparing to sell his businesses.

Ethics experts and political analysts are already concerned such steps will not
go far enough or set the right example for his Cabinet.

"Here, the message sent by the person at the top, in this case the president,
sets parameters and gives underlings a sense of what is -- and is not --
permitted," said Michael Genovese, an American presidency scholar at Loyola
Marymount University in Los Angeles. "President Obama set very strict guidelines
from Day One, and emphasized over and over how important it was to not only obey
the law, but do the right thing in the right way. This message filtered down the
chain of command, letting everyone know what a top priority honest and
transparent government was. The boss sets the tone for good or ill."

Spitzer said Trump's relaxed attitude about his own business dealings may affect
how he views potential conflicts of his Cabinet members.

"It certainly suggests he will be lenient, tolerant, forgiving of people around
him who may be less than scrupulous in maintaining a wall between their
government service and their own private fortunes, private wealth, private
business interests," Spitzer said. "It's a pretty hard wall to police."

--

don.lee@latimes.com

Twitter: @dleelatimes

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BETSY DeVOS, selected to lead the Education Department, is a
billionaire who could help divert money from public schools to vouchers and
charter schools.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Drew Angerer Getty Images PHOTO: STEVEN MNUCHIN,
chosen as Treasury chief, is a wealthy banker with film industry ties.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Albin Lohr-Jones EPA PHOTO: WILBUR ROSS, chosen to be Commerce
chief, has ties to banking, energy and transportation.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Evan Vucci
Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             953 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

BACK STORY;
Putin's goal: R-E-S-P-E-C-T;
Russia's leader wants new U.S. administration to recognize its might

BYLINE: Laura King

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Foreign Desk; Part A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1182 words


Perhaps more than at any time since the Cold War, Kremlinologists are working
overtime to decode Russia -- galvanized, in part, by Donald Trump's election as
the next U.S. president.

Many analysts have expressed deep concern that Russian muscle-flexing --
bellicose moves on its western front, an aggressive military intervention in
Syria and an international trail of cyber-provocation -- represents a clear
challenge to the United States and its allies in Europe and elsewhere. Such an
environment, they note, could pose particular peril for an untested American
leader.

But there is also a contrarian view: that after a deep freeze in
Russian-American relations during part of President Obama's tenure, Trump's
avowed deal-making bent and evident readiness to personally engage Russian
President Vladimir Putin could produce a thaw with the potential to lessen,
rather than exacerbate, global tensions on a range of issues.

Much will depend on what Russia wants.

What is Putin saying publicly about the incoming administration?

He's been conciliatory. In his annual state of the nation address delivered from
an ornate assembly room in the Kremlin on Thursday, Putin avoided the harsh
references to Washington and its allies that are often a hallmark of such
high-profile ceremonial speeches. Instead, he focused on Russia's domestic
challenges and painted his own government as averse to international friction.

"We don't want confrontation with anyone -- we don't need it," official news
outlets quoted him as telling an assemblage of Russian political elite. "We are
not seeking, and have never sought, enemies. We need friends."

What are Putin's priorities?

In a word: respect. Like Trump, Putin derives fervent popular support from the
theme of national greatness. The Russian leader bristles at any deviation from
the narrative of Russian might, even if a long-feared empire is now seen by most
outsiders as a nation in decline -- albeit a very dangerous, nuclear-armed one.

Putin "wants the U.S. to treat Russia as an equal partner, in spite of the
obvious disparity in factors like the economy and conventional military strength
and the technology gap," said Simon Saradzhyan, who heads the Russian Matters
project at Harvard's Belfer Center. "He wants the same thing he essentially
wanted from Obama: that the U.S. acknowledge that Russia is a great power that
must have a say in all important decisions that affect the regions that surround
it."

But while Trump's unscripted outpourings may appear to augur a friendship with
Putin, analysts point out that the Obama "reset" with Russia at the start of his
tenure foundered. The Russian relationship with George W. Bush also turned tense
despite gestures like Putin's sympathy call after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
In other words, substantive issues may soon intervene.

What are Russia's main points of contention with the West?

From Russia's point of view, the country is more threatened than threatening.
Moscow has railed against the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and by American development of long-range ballistic weapons systems
that could put Russia's defenses within reach.

The West, for its part, denounced Putin's push into Ukraine and punished his
2014 annexation of the Crimean peninsula with sanctions.

The firepower Russia has brought to bear in propping up Syrian President Bashar
Assad set in motion one of the bloodiest chapters of Syria's catastrophic civil
war, the battle for eastern Aleppo.

In the latest of a series of scathing diplomatic rebukes, the United Nations'
humanitarian coordinator, Stephen O'Brien, said Wednesday that the
Russian-backed Syrian government risked turning rebel-held parts of the
contested city into "one giant graveyard."

What are some issues to watch?

During the campaign, Trump said he would "be looking at" accepting Crimea as
Russian territory -- but the conversation centered on an interview in which it
was unclear he was aware the peninsula had been annexed by Putin. In his speech,
Putin reiterated that Russia would not tolerate "infringement" of its interests,
and his diplomats have warned against any tightening of sanctions.

On Syria, Trump's views might not diverge so greatly from Putin's. The
president-elect has signaled a rollback of support for moderate rebel factions
seeking to topple Assad, and has not insisted, as Obama has, that the Syrian
leader must be removed or step aside. In his speech, Putin defended Russia's
actions in Syria as a fight against terrorism: "That is the task our servicemen
in Syria are fulfilling," he said.

What are possible grounds for common cooperation?

Putin said in his nationally televised address that global terrorism was a
common enemy.

"We are ready to cooperate with the new U.S. administration," he said.

Trump has already indicated he is amenable to joining forces with Russia against
the militants of Islamic State. Analysts note other points of overlapping
interests including nuclear security and nonproliferation.

What's worrying Putin at home?

Fiscal woes, for one thing. The Russian economy shrank in 2015, hit by falling
oil prices and Western sanctions, and Putin is struggling to contain inflation.
Experts say Russia badly needs to modernize its economy, which is heavily
dependent on energy resources.

"Russia is a 'one-crop economy' with corrupt institutions and serious
demographic and health problems," analyst and author Joseph Nye wrote in a
symposium commissioned by the foreign affairs magazine the National Interest and
Carnegie Corp. of New York.

In his speech Thursday, Putin called for regulatory reform that would help
business overall, and greater development incentives in the lagging high-tech
sector.

What has Trump said about Russia?

On that topic, personality has trumped policy. At rallies, in interviews and on
the debate stage, Trump made repeated admiring references to Putin's "strong"
style of governance, contrasting it with what he characterized as dangerous
weakness on the part of his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton. A recurring
theme was Trump's assertion that Putin had called him "brilliant," although
Russian-language experts told the fact-checking organization PolitiFact that the
word in question, yarkii, would be more accurately translated as "colorful."

What about Putin's political future?

A former KGB agent, Putin has been in power since 2000, alternating between the
prime minister's post and the presidency, with a governing style that runs to
steely charisma, autocratic tactics and the ruthless crushing of political
opponents.

Russia's next presidential elections are in 2018, and analysts like Saradzhyan
saw clear indications Putin intends to seek another term. In the speech, Putin
repeatedly referred to planned development and economic initiatives that would
take place in 2019.

Like many leaders from Russia's imperial past, he sees his own personal fortunes
as deeply entwined with those of the state. Thursday's speech brought an echo of
that, as he told compatriots, "We want to take charge of our own destiny."

--

laura.king@latimes.com

Twitter: @laurakingLAT

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RUSSIAN President Vladimir Putin delivers his state of the
nation address at the Kremlin. "We don't want confrontation with anyone," he was
quoted as saying.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Alexei Druzhinin Pool Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             954 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

THE NATION;
ANALYSIS;
Trump takes spotlight off issues;
The showman moves to draw attention from larger concerns and build suspense.

BYLINE: Cathleen Decker

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1118 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


Donald Trump's trip to Indiana on Thursday showcased him as the president he
promised he'd be: a benevolent billionaire working successfully to salvage
almost 1,000 American jobs that had been destined to move to Mexico before he
interceded.

Trump has honed that image daily with his effervescent use of social media. But
his energetic efforts have also obscured some of the conversation about the
administration he is building and whether it plays against his populist posture.

Joy over the cancellation of a plan by the Carrier air conditioning and heating
firm to move its jobs outpaced questions about the costs of saving them,
including the millions in taxpayer money that went to the company.

Similarly, Trump's tweeting about persuading Carrier, and about separating
himself from his namesake real estate company, overshadowed developments such as
picking a Goldman Sachs veteran as his Treasury secretary and stocking his
Cabinet with officials who have pledged to do away with programs relied on by
many Trump voters. And particularly with the business announcement, Trump put
off mounting questions by promising to address them later, delaying specifics
while ensuring future attention on whatever he decides.

All presidents work to cast events in their best possible light. In past
administrations, such image-making would have been orchestrated by message
experts, speechwriters and video teams.

Trump has so far accomplished it mostly with two thumbs and his Twitter account.
Thursday's trip to Indianapolis marked his first significant public appearance
since his visit to the White House two days after the election.

"What Trump seems to have figured out is the same audience that's willing to
accept a message in 140 characters in every other aspect of their lives is also
willing to accept it when it comes to politics," said Dan Schnur, a presidential
campaign veteran who now directs USC's Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics. "He
seems to have decided that the best way to avoid a controversy is to create
another controversy."

Trump's transition has emphasized approach over policy. The policy will
inevitably flow once his Cabinet and administration are fully stocked, but it
seems unlikely that he will dramatically change his own bent.

After appearing in Indiana, Trump headed to a rally in Cincinnati, the first of
several in states that flipped from Democratic to Republican in 2016, delivering
him the presidency.

It's something of a luxury for him to crisscross the country. Unlike during the
last presidential transition, the economy is not cratering, uneven though it may
be. The nearly 1,000 jobs Trump credited to himself and Vice President-elect
Mike Pence, while hugely important to the workers and the surrounding
communities, are a smidge of the 11 million gained under President Obama's
nearly eight-year tenure.

The decision by Carrier followed its talks with Trump and Pence, the Indiana
governor until January. To hear him tell it Thursday, Trump didn't remember
promising to save the jobs until he recently watched a television news clip of a
worker relating his pledge. Most of the time, Carrier had simply been a campaign
target, its officials cast as greedy outsourcers of the sort he would deal with
harshly after he became president.

The company appeared to have canceled some of the planned job shifts because of
the combination of tax breaks and fears by its parent company, United
Technologies, that its federal government contracts might be at risk.

The targeting of one company is precisely the criticism that Republicans have
long made of Obama, whom they regarded as picking economic winners and losers
based on ideology.

Trump's plans regarding his role in his own company won't be known until a Dec.
15 news conference.

He first said he "will be leaving [his] great business in total" to "in no way
have a conflict of interest with [his] various businesses."

But then he said he was preparing legal documents that would take him
"completely out of business operations" -- suggesting that his children would
run the company, but that he could retain his ownership interest.

Already the Trump children have been heavily involved in the transition, and
they and he have conducted meetings that commingled their business ambitions
with his presidential plans.

The Carrier and Trump Organization announcements took the focus off actions that
flew in the face of the harshly anti-Wall Street campaign rhetoric that so
entranced his supporters.

At campaign rallies, thousands jeered his contention that Hillary Clinton was in
the pocket of Goldman Sachs. A late-campaign ad showed a picture of Chief
Executive Lloyd Blankfein, as the narrator declared that Goldman was one of a
handful of corporations that "robbed our working class."

But this week, Trump named Goldman veteran -- and campaign finance chairman --
Steven Mnuchin as his choice for Treasury secretary. Another former Goldman
employee, Stephen K. Bannon, will be Trump's chief strategist. The company's
president, Gary Cohn, visited Trump Tower amid word that he might head Trump's
budget office.

It's not unusual for executives from Goldman or similar companies to take
high-ranking government jobs, but it was bracing coming from a candidate whose
election was powered by antipathy toward elites.

Both Mnuchin and Trump's prospective Commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross, are
expected to face congressional scrutiny over past deals that either cost jobs
or, in Mnuchin's case, led to tens of thousands of foreclosures during the
housing crisis.

Trump spokesman Jason Miller brushed aside any dissonance.

"The president-elect has done a fantastic job of putting together a Cabinet of
winners," he said.

Neither selection is expected to stumble, given Republican control over the
nomination process.

Trump does seem to have some room for maneuvering given the enthusiasm of his
supporters. He also has a record of ignoring or upending the conventions of a
campaign, and now those of a transition.

Since his election, he has cast aside the typical mode in which sober, private
reflection leads to a formal announcement of appointments. In its stead is a
freewheeling, Twitter-driven grab bag in which few are sure whether policies are
holding or changing, or whether he's inviting people in for vetting, for
advising or to display contrition. The transition has been as much reality show
as staid government.

"Trump has decided that talking about these things in public doesn't look
indecisive but it builds suspense," Schnur said.

"In the political world, that is absolutely revolutionary. On the other hand,
it's exactly what they do on 'American Idol.' He's just building interest in
next week's show."

--

cathleen.decker@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PRESIDENT-ELECT Trump's job-saving deal overshadowed questions
about his company and Cabinet.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Darron Cummings Associated Press

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             955 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

When donors can't stop giving

BYLINE: DAVID LAZARUS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words


Terry Hendricks supports Hillary Clinton, up to a point.

The Fullerton resident thinks that point was reached Nov. 8 when Clinton lost
the presidential election to Donald Trump. Hendricks, 69, reckons that her
recurring $10 monthly contributions to the Hillary Victory Fund should have come
to a halt once the contest was decided and the candidate stopped running.

Last week, however, the fund helped itself to another $10 credit card payment,
and Hendricks is worried that the contributions may never end.

She said she's made more than two dozen calls: to the fund, to her bank, to the
Democratic National Committee, to the Federal Election Commission. Either she
got no response or she was informed that there was nothing to be done.

"I realize it's only $10 a month," Hendricks told me. "But it's upsetting that I
can't stop it and I don't even know where the money is going."

Other political donors and would-be donors should know this: Such behavior by a
major campaign is unusual.

"It's extremely out of the ordinary," said Taryn Rosenkranz, a Washington, D.C.,
fundraising consultant who specializes in Democratic campaigns but played no
role in the Hillary Victory Fund. "Typically, nothing is processed after the
election."

What's striking here, therefore, is the profound difficulty Hendricks has faced
in communicating with someone who could address her issues.

As with all customer-service horror stories, this speaks to an institutional
failure and an inability to treat those you count on -- in this case, voters --
with appropriate courtesy and respect.

The Clinton campaign's shortcomings are no different from a business forcing
customers to navigate a complex phone tree and then being kept on hold for half
an hour (or longer).

The Hillary Victory Fund was established last year as a joint fundraising effort
by the campaign, the Democratic National Committee and about three dozen state
Democratic committees. California's state party ran its own fundraising
operation.

According to the Center for Responsive Politics, the Hillary Victory Fund
amassed a war chest of more than $473 million. Much of that went to Clinton's
campaign, but millions also were disbursed to state Democratic causes
nationwide.

California businesses were among the top donors. DreamWorks SKG, the production
company co-founded by Steven Spielberg, led the pack with $1.6 million in
contributions to the fund.

It was followed by Santa Monica's Saban Financial Group ($1.5 million); the
investment firm Pritzker Group, which has a growing Los Angeles presence ($1.4
million); and Apple ($1.2 million).

Hendricks, a retired teacher, said she decided to set up a recurring monthly
donation over the summer after she received an email from Clinton's campaign
offering T-shirts for sale. A solicitation for contributions accompanied the
sales pitch.

"It was something I could do," Hendricks recalled, "and it was easier to give
$10 a month instead of a large amount at once."

Clinton lost the election. "I just assumed that the donations would immediately
stop," Hendricks said, not unreasonably.

Then came last week's credit card payment. Hendricks promptly called the number
on her statement for the Hillary Victory Fund and got a recording saying that
all representatives were busy and instructing her to leave a message. She did.
Nobody called back.

"I must have called 27 times," she said. "Each time I left a message and each
time I was ignored. It was like they'd all packed up and gone home."

I called the same number and similarly heard a recording that everyone was
really busy and that if I left a message someone would get back to me. No one
did.

I also called the number listed on the fund's official paperwork and left a
message there. No response.

Hendricks said she called the Democratic National Committee, but a
representative insisted that the committee had no control over fund matters.
Hendricks reported the problem to the Federal Election Commission, but it too
had no ready solution.

More troubling is what happened with her card issuer, Bank of America. Hendricks
said she spoke with two bank representatives and both said they couldn't stop
the payments.

This was flat-out wrong.

"Customers can call us to put a stop on recurring payments," said Betty Riess, a
bank spokeswoman, adding that she didn't know why Hendricks wasn't told this.

Even when the payee won't stop helping itself to your cash -- for a canceled gym
membership, say, or a canceled telecom service -- your bank has the power to
erect a financial firewall. If a customer rep won't do it, ask for a supervisor.

I'm thinking it also should be a law that no recurring political contributions
to a candidate be permitted to continue after election day. The candidate's
campaign should have to make the opt-out process transparent and should be
required to respond in a timely fashion to all inquiries.

If you click any of the donation links on Clinton's campaign website,
HillaryClinton.com, you'll be automatically transferred to a site run by the
Democratic Party encouraging you to donate money "to help us stand up to Trump
and the GOP."

The day before the election, Hendricks received an email from the Clinton
campaign thanking her for her support. It noted that recurring contributions
would be automatically charged to her credit card "for the length of the
campaign."

The switcheroo with the websites suggests that Clinton's campaign continues, one
way or another.

That may be fine with many donors. But it's not what Hendricks, and probably
numerous others, signed up for.

Oh, and she heard from BofA late Thursday that the bank has cut off the Hillary
Victory Fund from any further payments and secured a $10 refund for the last
charge. That's how it's done.

--

David Lazarus' column runs Tuesdays and Fridays. Send your tips or feedback to
david.lazarus@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Column

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             956 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

TRAIL GUIDE;
Of rainbows and rallies;
Message of dissent for Mike Pence, as Donald Trump takes victory lap

BYLINE: Colleen Shalby; Chris Megerian; Cathleen Decker; Lisa Mascaro, By Times
staff

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1053 words


The voting's over but cries of "Lock her up!" and "Build the wall!" were heard
again this week, and one Washington neighborhood had a message for the incoming
vice president. Catch up on these tidbits and other political news you might
have missed with these highlights from Trail Guide, the go-to political blog at
latimes.com.

Rainbow flags greet Pence in Washington

Vice President-elect Mike Pence's temporary neighbors have sent a not-so-welcome
message criticizing his stance on gay rights.

Residents in northwest Washington, D.C., near where Pence is renting a house,
have begun flying LGBT pride flags from their homes.

"A respectful message showing, in my case, my disagreement with some of his
thinking," neighbor Ilse Heintzen told WJLA-TV.

As governor of Indiana, Pence signed a measure into law last year that would
have allowed businesses to reject gay and lesbian customers on grounds of
religious freedom. He later signed a revised version of the law prohibiting
discrimination based on sexual orientation. As a congressman in 2010, Pence
criticized efforts to repeal "don't ask, don't tell" to let gays serve openly in
the military.

Pence's rental is listed at $6,000 per month. According to WJLA, "roughly a
half-dozen pride flags" fly on the block, with more to come.

Pence will move into the official vice presidential mansion at the Naval
Observatory, also in northwest Washington, after Vice President Joe Biden moves
out.

-- Colleen Shalby

Trump remains in campaign mode

The election had been over for more than three weeks when President-elect Donald
Trump took the stage Thursday night in Cincinnati, but inside the arena it was
like the campaign had never ended.

Supporters chanted familiar slogans about Hillary Clinton ("Lock her up!") and
illegal immigration ("Build the wall!"). They booed the media when Trump
criticized what he called "the very dishonest press."

The rally was, familiarly, interrupted by protesters, whom Trump mocked as they
were escorted out by saying they were going "back home to Mom."

Trump said he was going to discuss an "action plan" for his administration, but
he seemed more animated regaling the crowd with a play-by-play of how television
news covered election night. He relished the surprise on anchors' faces as it
became clear that the "blue wall" of normally Democratic states would fall to
Trump, handing him a victory.

"We shattered that sucker," he said. "That poor wall is busted up."

Trump delivered a strongly nationalistic message and repeated his pledge to put
"America first."

"There is no global anthem, no global currency," Trump said. "We pledge
allegiance to one flag, and that flag is the American flag."

Although Trump has not expressed regret for some of the racially charged
rhetoric of his campaign, he pledged to "find common ground" as president and
said, "We spend too much time focusing on what divides us."

"We condemn bigotry and prejudice in all of its forms," he said.

-- Chris Megerian

Electoral College win far from landslide

Trump's tweet that he would have won the popular vote but for "millions" of
illegal voters was not based on fact. There is no proof backing up his
statement, and voting researchers uniformly dismissed it as false.

In his tweet, Trump wrote: "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a
landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted
illegally."

Also problematic was his claim in the same tweet that his victory was one of the
rare landslides in American political history.

A study of electoral vote results by John J. Pitney, an author and professor of
government at Claremont McKenna College, shows that Trump resides on the lower
end of the electoral vote scale.

He won 56.97% of the electoral votes up for grabs by virtue of his state wins.
That places him 46th out of the 58 elections since George Washington's era,
Pitney found.

In 38 elections, the winners exceeded 60% of the vote, a lopsided verdict by
voters.

Clear landslides were won most recently by Ronald Reagan: In 1984, he won 97.58%
of electoral votes, and in 1980 he won 90.89%.

-- Cathleen Decker

The GOP's timetable to repeal Obamacare

House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy cast doubt on whether the Republican-led
Congress would be ready to repeal Obamacare by inauguration day, as some in
Trump's transition team have suggested could happen in a special session.

But the Bakersfield Republican said GOP lawmakers would try to start as soon as
possible on what he acknowledged would be a complicated two-step process to
repeal and replace Obamacare that will consume much of 2017 and beyond.

Their plan involves retroactively passing a fiscal 2017 budget in the early
weeks of Trump's term. Such a maneuver would give Republicans the ability to
unwind President Obama's signature domestic program with a simple majority vote,
without facing a Democratic filibuster. Replacing the Affordable Care Act would
come later, and likely extend into fiscal 2018.

"Once it's repealed you will have hopefully fewer people playing politics and
everybody coming to the table to find the best policy," McCarthy told reporters
Tuesday. "I just want to make sure we get it right."

McCarthy cautioned that repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act would be
more complicated than simply sending a bill to the White House for the
president's signature.

Instead, Congress will need to insert special repeal instructions as part of the
wonky budget reconciliation process. And that will take time, he said.

McCarthy said replacing Obamacare would be even tougher than repealing it. Even
though Republicans have promised their own healthcare law, they have never been
able to produce an agreed-upon alternative.

To gather ideas, McCarthy said he would solicit advice from governors and state
insurance commissioners.

Since Congress did not pass a 2017 budget for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1,
they hope to retroactively approve one in the weeks ahead so they can include
the first part of the special instructions needed to repeal the program. But he
doubts that will be completed by the time Trump takes office.

"I don't think you can do it before [Jan.] 20th," he said. "There's only so many
legislative days."

-- Lisa Mascaro

Quote of the week

"You are a terrific guy."

-- Donald Trump, in a phone call with Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A RAINBOW flag decorates a house near Vice President-elect Mike
Pence's temporary rental in D.C.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Jim Lo Scalzo European Pressphoto
Agency PHOTO: SUPPORTERS of President-elect Donald Trump cheer as he speaks at a
rally Thursday in Cincinnati.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Ty Wright Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             957 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

Latinos anxious amid a rise in taunts;
Since election day, longtime Idaho residents fear being targeted merely for the
way they look.

BYLINE: David Montero

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

DATELINE:  CALDWELL, IDAHO


Janeth Calderon flipped on the kitchen light and the windows burned bright in
the pre-dawn blackness. Next she slayed the quiet, turning on a radio that
filled the room with traditional Mexican music. A few pots and pans clattered as
she began making breakfast for her four children.

Mario was up first. The 11-year-old with his short, dark hair and lanky frame
already was taller than his mother, and he had to bend slightly to get a morning
kiss.

Next came Xitlaly Calderon, who would turn 8 that Saturday. Dressed in her tan
school uniform, she was excited about the birthday cupcakes she'd be giving out
to her classmates.

"Leche?" mom asked.

"Si," her son replied.

She poured him a cup of milk and turned back to the French toast. Janeth usually
would ask her son about tests or homework. But mornings had been a little more
somber since Nov. 8, when Mario came home from school and told her what the kid
had said on the bus -- that because he was a Mexican he'd have to start sitting
at the back now that Donald Trump would be president.

Mario had never felt a sting like that before -- he was born in Idaho, just like
his sisters. His stomach churned. He was confused. Lonely. Anger muscled its way
forward too. The bus driver reprimanded the kid, and Mario didn't sit in the
back. But the seed was planted. He worried that it would happen again.

"I felt sad," he said.

Janeth already had plenty to worry about as her son grew older -- she would fret
about his grades, about his growing up so quickly and she still was learning how
to gradually surrender her protective instincts to time. Now she struggled with
the quiet fear that Mario's dreams could be strangled by something new and ugly.
For 11 years, he'd never felt like he'd been targeted for the way he looked.

Donald Trump's victory changed that.

"Before the election, I didn't worry about this for my kids," she said softly.
"Now that he's elected, it feels different."

Trump's comments during the campaign were well-documented. His claim that Mexico
was sending drug dealers and rapists to America was particularly incendiary, but
so to were his tough immigration proposals that prompted supporters to chant
"build the wall!" at rallies.

The Southern Poverty Law Center has been tracking incidents of harassment since
election day. As of Monday, that number stood at 701.

The bulk of the harassment has been labeled as anti-immigrant, with 206 falling
into that category. Among those totals, most incidents have occurred at K-12
schools.

Trump didn't address the issue until Nov. 13 on "60 Minutes."

"I'm so saddened to hear that," Trump said. "And I say, stop it. If it -- if it
helps, I will say right to the cameras: Stop it."

He also condemned white supremacist groups at a meeting with the New York Times
last week.

But Trump had done some troubling things. He picked Stephen K. Bannon to be his
chief strategist. Bannon oversaw Breitbart News, which became a key forum for a
movement that has, in many cases, pushed a racist agenda. Trump met with Kansas
Secretary of State Kris Kobach, who wrote the "papers please" law in Arizona
fueled by sentiment against immigrants in the U.S. illegally. And Sen. Jeff
Sessions (R-Ala.) is Trump's pick to be attorney general. Sessions, an
anti-immigration hard-liner, has been criticized for making racist remarks in
the past.

Janeth's husband, Jorge Calderon, 36, felt as if he was watching clocks spin
backward to his days as a teenager. Fears he'd put to rest years ago began to
resurface amid conversation at his job in the nearby sugar beet factory.

Jorge moved to Idaho with his parents more than two decades ago. He came to love
Idaho after a rocky start when his parents got jobs and he helped them in the
summer picking fruit.

"We were in the fields, and across the highway there were some Caucasian people
calling us 'wetbacks' and saying, 'Go back to your country -- you don't belong
here.' It made me angry and it made me think I wanted to go in front of them and
say something back," Calderon said. "But I knew they were bigger and older and I
wasn't going to be able to do something."

The outburst on the bus surprised him. It hurt him. It scared him too.

Since Trump's election, immigrants living in the country illegally and their
advocates have expressed fears of mass deportations and workplace raids. But for
people like the Calderons, the fear is being targeted not for the legal status,
but for their ethnicity.

Both of Jorge's parents were legal permanent residents when he was born in
California. Janeth and her parents are legal permanent residents too.

He wondered whether their status would be enough protection for them amid
anti-immigration zeal that seemed to surround Trump's campaign. Perhaps they
should become citizens to be on the safe side. Janeth said she would start the
process to becoming a citizen now. Jorge figured his parents -- close to
retirement age -- wouldn't try. Janeth thought hers would.

When Jorge walked in from the garage after getting off work from the overnight
shift at the factory, he had just missed Mario taking out his violin to play
"Ode to Joy" -- something to pass the time while Janeth lightly put Vaseline in
Xitlaly's hair to keep it from drying out. She helped her put in earrings too.

Mario wiped the strings on the violin and put it away in its case while
5-year-old Xochilt played with her younger sister, 2-year-old Sarnay. Jorge had
picked up some doughnuts on the way home from work and put them on the kitchen
table and they swarmed the box. Two languages bounced about the kitchen as the
family rushed around, mostly speaking English but tossing in Spanish here and
there.

School would be starting soon and Janeth made one last check that they had
everything they needed. Coats were buttoned and backpacks slung over shoulders.
Xitlaly asked if they had to go. Yes, Janeth said.

Jorge went outside to unlock the car. The sun had risen, but it provided little
warmth. Ice scrapers for car windshields finally were called into duty after an
unseasonably warm fall. The sprinkler systems had been blown out, and tree limbs
still stubbornly clung to crisp leaves -- one storm removed from nakedness.

His son's story about the bus worried both of them. Janeth said she noticed he
was staying late at school for math tutoring since election day, despite already
having solid grades in the subject. She wondered whether he was avoiding the bus
ride home. He had said he would be staying late again that day. Could they pick
him up? Of course they could.

The reality of what had changed seemed hard to grasp. And while harassment was
occurring across the country, she said the large protests in places such as Los
Angeles, Phoenix or Portland, Ore., seemed to offer some solace where larger
populations of Latinos lived. In Idaho, with just 12% of the state's population
being Latino, the family felt more removed -- with 60% of voters in Idaho going
for Trump and two-thirds in their county backing the Republican.

Janeth also had heard of harassment through friends and local media.

Ivan Carrillo, a paralegal at Ramirez-Smith & Tvinnereim in the nearby town of
Nampa, said his sister's friend was spit on and called names. Carrillo said he
and a friend went to a local bar and were called derogatory names.

Trystan Gray, an 18-year-old Latino, told the Idaho State Journal that some of
his classmates in Pocatello were telling him it would only be a "few more days
until Trump sends you out of here."

Jorge and Janeth said they wanted to tell their son things will be OK. That his
dreams of starting a band at 15 and maybe joining the Army like Jorge's two
brothers did after high school are still possible. Or maybe going to college.
Before the election, anything seemed possible.

"He is trying hard," he said.

Janeth kept busy during the day while Jorge slept after his overnight shift. She
delivered Girl Scout cookies. She visited a friend who recently had surgery.
Janeth was still wearing a wrist brace from surgery she'd had for carpel tunnel
syndrome, which made her unable to cook a big birthday meal for Xitlaly.

They decided they'd ask Xitlaly where she wanted to go for lunch on Saturday.
But all day, Janeth worried about Mario. When it was time for the bus to drop
Xitlaly off, Janeth dressed up Sarnay in a jacket, slipped on her coat and boots
and walked along the sidewalk, past some homes. A couple pulling out of the
driveway waved. She waved back.

As Janeth stood on the edge of the road, bracing against a cold wind, the yellow
bus rolled up and finally lurched to a stop. The doors opened and a few kids
trickled out. She saw Xitlaly trundle out.

Then, a surprise.

Off the bus stepped Mario. He walked with his sister to meet Janeth at the
corner. He smiled. She sighed as he bent slightly to give her a kiss.

--

david.montero@latimes.com

Twitter: @davemontero

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JANETH CALDERON with son Mario, 11. She worries about his
well-being since his peers taunted him for his Mexican roots after Donald
Trump's election.  PHOTOGRAPHER:David Montero Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             958 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

Trump's tweets aren't for all to see

BYLINE: David Pierson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Business Desk; Part A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words


Heather Spohr didn't vote for Donald Trump, but that doesn't mean she's not
interested in keeping up with what her soon-to-be president has been saying.

That hasn't been so easy for the Thousand Oaks mother of two ever since she
tweeted during a Republican primary debate last year that she found the
celebrity businessman "repulsive" because of his feud with Fox News anchor Megyn
Kelly.

Spohr is now one of an untold number of people who are blocked from following
the president-elect on Twitter -- a distinction that ordinarily wouldn't matter
except that Trump, who hasn't held a news conference since July, uses the social
media platform as his primary tool for communicating with the American public.

Spohr can't follow her future president, view his tweets or communicate with him
on Twitter (not that she ever thought he'd notice). She now relies on friends to
send screen shots of the president-elect's tweets. Her husband also checks for
her in the morning using his Twitter account given Trump's propensity for
posting missives overnight.

"It makes me laugh in a way that's not funny," said Spohr, 37, a blogger and
freelance writer. "I can't see the tweets of the president-elect. He's going to
be my president. It's absurd."

In a campaign year defined by the upending of political norms, this may feel
like just another Trumpian triumph over tradition. Twitter, after all, is a
private platform where free speech protections don't apply and users can choose
to unfollow, mute or block anyone they want.

But unlike other Twitter users, Trump is about to become the 45th president of
the United States. His conduct on social media matters, according to
presidential historians and political scientists, because by blocking followers,
Trump is effectively saying only Americans who resist the urge to publicly
disparage him are worthy of his pronouncements.

"The president should speak to all Americans directly and not filter people
out," said Timothy Naftali, a presidential historian at New York University.
"Are people blocked from watching television or listening to radio when a
president gives an address? The president-elect needs to get used to the idea
that presidential words matter. And everyone needs access to those words."

It's unclear how many people are blocked by Trump, who has 16.3 million
followers to his account (@realDonaldTrump).

Twitter says it won't comment on individual accounts, and the Trump transition
team did not respond to a request for comment.

It's also unclear if President Obama, the nation's first chief executive to take
to Twitter, has blocked any followers on either his private account
(@BarackObama) or the official presidential account (@POTUS). The White House
did not respond to a request for comment. Last year, however, White House
spokesman Patrick Rodenbush tweeted "Nobody is or has ever been blocked from the
@POTUS twitter account" in response to a conservative critic who said he had
been blocked.

Trump will take control of the official presidential account after he takes
office. It is uncertain which one he'll use as his primary account, or whether
people followed -- or blocked -- on his personal account will get the same
treatment from the presidential handle.

A search on Twitter reveals numerous people who claim to have been blocked by
Trump's account, often posting the screen grab to prove it.

"Regret to inform that I cannot see the Trump tweets you're referring to, as I
am blocked by the ... President of the United States," David Roth, a
sportswriter, said in a Nov. 15 tweet that was retweeted more than 7,500 times.

Some seem to revel in the ban by someone poised to become the most important
world leader.

"Well, I've finally made it," tweeted Adam Molloy, a self-described actor,
singer, writer and producer with fewer than 200 followers. "@realDonaldTrump
blocked me on Twitter. I'm not one to brag, but this feels good."

Others say a block by Trump is akin to a badge of honor. "Being blocked by Trump
is the new Verified Account," tweeted someone with the handle @JRMcGRail.

Andrew Friedman, a New York media strategist, discovered that he was blocked by
Trump in 2013 shortly after his then-boss, New York Atty. Gen. Eric
Schneiderman, filed a suit against Trump University.

"If anyone happens to bump into the next leader of the free world, can you ask
him to unblock me on #Twitter? Many thanks," Friedman recently tweeted.

The move to block people puzzles Friedman, who said a president should try to
persuade all Americans to buy into his vision for the country.

"It seems like it would be in his best interest to allow people of all opinions
to read, see and hear all that he has to say," Friedman said in a phone
interview.

What warrants a block from our next president? Sometimes all it takes is a
puerile jab from a high schooler.

Antonio Del Otero, 16, said he was blocked after replying to one of Trump's
tweets by likening the president-elect to a Cheetos snack.

"I didn't believe it at first," said Antonio, a Detroit resident who has since
deleted the offending tweet because he caught the ire of Trump supporters
online. "I didn't know what to think. I see this guy all over the news and he
must have seen my tweet and blocked me. I was really shocked, but my grandma was
thrilled."

Though a fervent Trump detractor who uses an expletive on his Twitter page to
denounce the incoming president, Antonio is still hopeful that he'll be
unblocked after Inauguration Day, figuring that staff members will eventually
take over the presidential account with a clean slate.

"If not, it's just as much an honor to be blocked by the 45th president of the
United States," said Antonio, a member of his high school class council.

Experts, however, are less sanguine about Trump restraining his behavior on
Twitter.

Trump has turned the microblogging service into his soapbox, allowing him to
circumvent a media with which he is often at odds. Like the fireside radio chats
of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Trump uses the technology of his day to
bypass the media and communicate directly with the nation.

With his speech unchallenged, Trump has used the platform not just to rally his
supporters but also, critics say, to distract from negative coverage and to
attack his rivals. His tweets have insulted a cross-section of America,
including celebrities (Alec Baldwin, Penn Jillette and Neil Young), the media
(CNN and the New York Times), companies (Amazon and Macy's) and places (New
Jersey).

And those who have insulted him back? Some of them find themselves blocked.

Every president, of course, has a different tack for dealing with critics; some
better than others, said Barbara Perry, director of Presidential Studies and
Co-Chair of the Presidential Oral History Program at the University of Virginia.

President Kennedy once canceled all White House subscriptions to the New York
Herald Tribune. President Nixon created an "enemies list" that included
journalists. Thin skin is typically not a desirable quality for the country's
highest office.

"What will happen to a president who deliberately removes himself from
criticism?" Perry said.

There are workarounds that let users see Trump's tweets even if he blocks them,
such as opening a new account. There's also an emerging movement on Twitter to
beat the president-elect at his own game by tuning him out with the hashtag
#BlockTrump. That, however, seems unlikely to change social media behavior
ingrained with more than 34,000 tweets by Trump in seven years.

Naftali, the NYU historian, is already wondering whether Twitter may be the best
medium for recording the president's legacy.

"I've been thinking about his presidential library," he said. "Would there be a
whole wall of his tweets?"

--

david.pierson@latimes.com

Twitter: @dhpierson

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HEATHER SPOHR, a Southland writer, has been blocked by Donald
Trump on Twitter. "I can't see the tweets of the president-elect.... It's
absurd," she said.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Mel Melcon Los Angeles Times

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             959 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                                  Home Edition

Disney CEO Iger named to Trump forum

BYLINE: Daniel Miller

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business Desk; Part C; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 511 words


Walt Disney Co. Chief Executive Robert Iger has been named to a new policy forum
created by President-elect Donald Trump.

The President's Strategic and Policy Forum includes several business
heavyweights, among them JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Jamie Dimon,
General Motors Chief Executive Mary Barra and IBM Chief Executive Virginia
Rometty.

The nonpartisan, 16-person forum will be chaired by Stephen Schwarzman, the
chief executive of private equity firm Blackstone. The group will frequently
meet with Trump to directly offer its knowledge and perspective to the
president, according to a news release issued by Trump's transition team Friday.

"My administration is committed to drawing on private sector expertise and
cutting the government red tape that is holding back our businesses from hiring,
innovating, and expanding right here in America," Trump said in a statement.

The forum's first meeting will be held in February at the White House.

"The forum provides a nonpartisan approach to key economic policy issues,
reflecting an array of individual perspectives from a cross-section of
industries. I welcome the chance to be part of the important discussions about
the most effective ways to grow jobs and expand economic opportunity in
America," Iger said in a statement.

Iger, a Democrat who supported Hillary Clinton, won't be the only Hollywood
player offering counsel to Trump. His incoming administration will include
executives with deep ties to the entertainment industry.

On Nov. 13, Trump picked Stephen K. Bannon as his chief strategist. Bannon
worked in Hollywood in the 1990s, helping to finance films including Sean Penn's
"The Indian Runner." Bannon also was previously the executive chairman of
Breitbart News, and both he and that news organization have been vociferously
criticized by groups such as the Anti-Defamation League for promoting white
nationalism.

On Wednesday, Trump selected Hollywood financier and Wall Street executive
Steven Mnuchin to be the next Treasury secretary. Mnuchin spent 17 years at
Goldman Sachs before starting a hedge fund that invests in films. He has cut
large financing deals with 20th Century Fox and Warner Bros., leading to his
executive producing credits on movies such as the summer hit "Suicide Squad."

Iger was asked how the Trump administration might affect Disney during a
conference call with analysts held two days after the Nov. 8 election. "I think
it's really too early to speculate about what the changes in Washington are
going to mean for our business or for businesses," he said on the call held to
discuss the company's fiscal fourth-quarter earnings.

Iger, however, noted that Disney has encouraged the federal government to look
at tax policy -- and has sought the closing of loopholes and also the lowering
of the corporate tax rate. "We are no longer competitive with the rest of the
world in that regard and that must be addressed," he said. "It's possible that
given what's going on this week that that's likely to be addressed sooner rather
than later."

--

daniel.miller@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             960 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

Full Pa. election recount dropped

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 194 words

DATELINE:  HARRISBURG, PA.


Green Party-backed voters dropped a court case Saturday night that had sought to
force a statewide recount of Pennsylvania's Nov. 8 presidential election won by
Republican Donald Trump.

Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein had framed a recount as an effort
to explore whether voting machines and systems had been hacked and the election
result manipulated.

The decision came two days before a court hearing was scheduled in the case.
Saturday's court filing to withdraw the case said the Green Party-backed voters
who filed the case "are regular citizens of ordinary means" and cannot afford
the $1-million bond ordered by the court by 5 p.m. Monday. However, Green
Party-backed efforts to force recounts and analyze election software in
scattered precincts were continuing.

Stein planned to make an announcement about the Pennsylvania recount Monday
outside the Trump Tower in New York, aides said.

The court case had been part of an effort spearheaded by Stein to force recounts
in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, three states with a history of backing
Democrats for president that were narrowly and unexpectedly won by Trump over
Democrat Hillary Clinton.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Wire

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             961 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

THE WORLD;
The rules of international relations are tossed aside

BYLINE: Tracy Wilkinson

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Foreign Desk; Part A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 863 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


He praises enemies, he ignores allies, he upends decades of policy.

And Donald Trump hasn't even been sworn in as president.

In a series of telephone calls with foreign leaders apparently eager to
congratulate the president-elect, Trump has broken many of the rules that govern
delicate matters of international relations, leaving State Department diplomats
shocked and confused.

The latest was Trump's decision Friday night to speak to the president of
Taiwan, which no U.S. president or president-elect has done in nearly 40 years.
The U.S. has no formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan, which China considers a
rogue state and part of its national territory.

Already, Trump's call with Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen has prompted China
to lodge a formal complaint, though given the stakes of relations between the
world's two superpowers, it tempered its reaction by emphasizing that Trump was
not yet setting U.S. policy.

"The one-China policy" that does not recognize an independent Taiwan "is the
cornerstone of the healthy development of China-U.S. relations, and we hope this
political foundation will not be interfered with or damaged," Chinese Foreign
Minister Wang Yi said Saturday, blaming Tsai for playing a "small trick" on
Trump.

The conversation had several of the hallmarks of Trump's most notable
discussions with foreign leaders since being elected: unorthodox, out of step
with current U.S. policy and prompted by opaque motives.

"We've been taken by surprise at every turn," one baffled national security
staffer said of the calls.

Trump offered no apologies, nor did his transition team make any comments.
Instead, he defended the discussion amid reams of criticism for having broken
U.S. protocol by saying Tsai initiated it.

"The President of taiwan CALLED ME today to wish me congratulations on winning
the Presidency. Thank you!" Trump tweeted.

Later, Trump added: "Interesting how the US sells Taiwan billions of dollars of
military equipment but I should not accept a congratulatory call."

Under the Obama administration, the U.S. has sold $14 billion in weapons to
Taiwan. The administration's Asia policy has centered on an effort to rebalance
resources toward the continent to counter the influence of China, though it has
had limited success.

China was also one of Trump's frequent targets during the campaign, and the call
could have been a first salvo in changing U.S. policy under the Trump
administration. He wants to increase tariffs on China, has threatened to label
the country a currency manipulator and blames it in part for the loss of jobs in
the U.S.

But the sudden nature of the call with Tsai, without informing other interested
parties such as China or the White House, unsettled foreign policy experts.

The president-elect's propensity to make and receive phone calls "heightens
concerns about Trump's foreign policy deftness," said Jeffrey Bader, a senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution.

"There are serious risks posed by his failure to take briefings by government
professionals," Bader wrote in a blog post, "and he appears to have little
respect for the potential damage of actions taken without understanding
long-standing U.S. national security concerns."

Trump's call with Tsai also prompted concern because his business empire is
hoping to build in Taiwan.

Similarly, after Trump's conversation with President Mauricio Macri of
Argentina, a journalist there suggested Trump might have asked for help with a
permit to build a tower in Buenos Aires. Trump's people denied it.

In conversations with British politicians, Trump asked about getting wind farms
banned from land near one of his British golf courses. Trump has acknowledged
that had happened.

Trump has sought to put to rest questions about conflicts of interest between
his business and the business of government by saying he'll step aside from
operating the businesses during his presidency and will detail his plans in a
Dec. 15 news conference. He has not addressed whether he will maintain ownership
of his real estate and development holdings.

Beyond the conflicts of interest, however, Trump is ignoring U.S. policy.

In a phone conversation with Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, Trump said
Pakistanis were "exceptional people" and "one of the most intelligent people."

The overtures were consistent with Trump's blustery language, but they belied
his attacks during the campaign on Pakistan as an evil sponsor of terrorism.
Additionally, most Pakistanis practice Islam, and Trump has proposed banning
Muslims from entering the United States.

The U.S. has diplomatic relations with Pakistan, but considers India, Pakistan's
archenemy, as a closer friend. Indians were among many shocked by Trump's
blithely friendly tone with Pakistan's Sharif.

In the case of the Taiwan call, the White House scrambled to emphasize that
Trump's conversation does not signal any change to U.S. policy, said Ned Price,
a spokesman for the White House National Security Council. "We remain firmly
committed to our 'one China' policy.... Our fundamental interest is in peaceful
and stable" relations.

--

tracy.wilkinson@latimes.com

Times staff writer Christi Parsons contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DONALD TRUMP told Nawaz Sharif, above, that Pakistanis are "one
of the most intelligent people."  PHOTOGRAPHER:New China News Agency

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             962 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                                  Home Edition

THE WORLD;
Beijing less than pleased with Trump's Taiwan call;
Contact with island's leader prompts a stern reminder to the U.S. that 'there is
only one China in the world.'

BYLINE: Jessica Meyers, Jonathan Kaiman

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; Foreign Desk; Part A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE:  BEIJING


President-elect Donald Trump's surprise phone call with Taiwan's president left
many in China reeling over a perceived assault on the country's sovereignty and
questioning their assumptions about America's future leader.

Although Trump repeatedly denounced China's trade policies as unfair during the
campaign, many here thought that his "America first" rallying cry might spare
their country from lectures on human rights, territorial disputes and other
diplomatic sore points.

"This is a message that their predictions were too optimistic," said Shi
Yinhong, director of the Center on American Studies at People's University in
Beijing. "China leaders will be quite prudent in their response, but this
naturally increases worries in their minds about Trump's possible attitudes and
policy towards China."

No president or president-elect is believed to have spoken directly with a
Taiwanese leader since the United States recognized the mainland government and
cut ties with Taiwan in 1979. China views the self-governing island as a
breakaway province and opposes any attempt to recognize it.

China's Foreign Ministry issued a "stern" notice to the U.S. on Saturday
evening, stressing "there is only one China in the world, and Taiwan is an
inseparable part of Chinese territory."

But officials directed most of the blame at Taiwan. Earlier in the day, Chinese
Foreign Minister Wang Yi referred to the call as a "little trick by Taiwan" and
said he did not believe it would alter long-standing U.S. policy toward China.

Jonathan Sullivan, director of the China Policy Institute at the University of
Nottingham in Britain, said Beijing has nothing to gain by souring relations
with the U.S. and hopes to have a productive relationship with Trump.

"While I'm sure they were taken aback by this faux pas, it won't be a total
surprise to them, given what they know about Trump's modus operandi," he said.

Despite Trump's frequent criticism of cheap Chinese exports, and his claim that
China is stealing American manufacturing jobs, the president-elect has attracted
considerable support on Chinese social media sites in recent months.

Many users appreciated what they perceived as an authoritarian streak, one that
mirrors that of their own leaders. Some were also drawn to Trump's tough
rhetoric about Muslims.

The response to Saturday's 10-minute call was more divided, however. Some users
labeled Trump a two-faced businessman and accused him of "breaking the rules."
Others struggled to understand what the call could mean for their country.

"Trump is not the president yet, so he took advantage of being a political
nobody to harass China," one person said on Zhihu, a question-and-answer
platform similar to Quora.

Another guessed that Trump might "use Taiwan as a card to play" and test China's
diplomatic capabilities.

The strained relations between China and Taiwan date to 1949, when Mao
Tse-tung's Communist forces defeated Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalist army, ending
a protracted civil war. Mao established the People's Republic of China; Chiang
fled to Taiwan and named Taipei the capital of his own domain, the Republic of
China.

Both sides consider themselves rightful governments of a unified Chinese state.
The upshot is that foreign powers can have formal diplomatic relations with only
one or the other -- and the vast majority chose Beijing.

Western governments, therefore, approach relations with Taiwan with extreme
delicacy and deliberate ambiguity. The U.S. claims to have relations with the
"people on Taiwan" -- not of Taiwan -- and instead of an embassy, it operates an
American Institute in Taipei.

The stakes are high. When the U.S. offered a visa to Taiwan's then-president,
Lee Teng-hui, to speak at Cornell University in 1995, China recalled its
ambassador to the U.S. and fired a series of missiles into the Taiwan Strait.

That's why Trump's call -- which appeared to recognize Taiwanese President Tsai
Ing-wen as a head of state -- was seen as a dramatic, and potentially dangerous,
break from protocol.

"Obviously, it's not just a phone call, but a signal, even a series of signals,
that Trump is telling Beijing," said Shen Yi, an international studies professor
at Fudan University, in an online article published Saturday. "He is not a
president-to-be that plays by the rules."

Alex Huang, the island's presidential spokesman, told the South China Morning
Post that Tsai initiated the call.

During the conversation, Tsai expressed the wish to establish closer ties with
the U.S. and said she hopes Washington can help Taiwan "have more chances to
participate" in international relations, according to a statement issued by her
office.

Taiwan's lack of formal ties abroad has hampered the export-reliant island's
ability to sign trade deals.

Tsai won a landslide election in January on promises to take a harder line with
China. But her popularity has plummeted amid economic malaise.

Trump and Tsai exchanged ideas about stimulating Taiwan's economic development
and stepping up security, her office said.

The U.S. government has sold Taiwan advanced weapons in the past despite strong
disapproval from China.

Even before the conversation, China's leaders were scrambling to understand a
president-elect with virtually no stated policy on the region. Chinese President
Xi Jinping spoke with Trump days after he was elected.

On Friday, Xi welcomed former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, who also just
met with Trump.

--

jonathan.kaiman@latimes.com

Meyers is a special correspondent. Yingzhi Yang and Nicole Liu in The Times'
Beijing bureau contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE CHINESE magazine Global People, sold at a Shanghai
newsstand, features an article that asks "Why did Trump win?" No president or
president-elect is believed to have spoken with a Taiwanese leader since 1979.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Johannes Eisele AFP/Getty Images PHOTO: TAIWANESE President Tsai
Ing-wen, right, initiated the call with Donald Trump, her office said.
PHOTOGRAPHER:Sam Yeh AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                             963 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Your opinions: Nov. 20;
Trump win due to failed progressive policies

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 722 words


There's a lot of crazy talk out there charging the "deplorables" who voted for
Donald Trump with racism, misogyny, bigotry, Islamophobia, homophobia, etc. This
is all part of established anarchist groups using their tools in the mainstream
media to "bit bleach" the public's brain and cover up the failed policies of the
progressives over the past eight years.

The fact is, Trump took 31 out of 50 states, racking up 306 electoral votes
against Hillary's 232. He took several states that voted overwhelmingly for
President Obama the last two elections and some states that haven't gone
Republican in 30-plus years. Ditto for hundreds and hundreds of staunchly
Democratic counties. I guess all these places miraculously turned racist, etc.,
overnight to elect Trump.

The problem with progressive philosophy is that it operates in an abstract world
where all hypotheticals are possible. So, protecting the environment by killing
pipelines (which are far safer than Warren Buffet's railroad transports of oil)
and destroying the coal industry and so on becomes a priority, but the
associated millions of jobs lost and people dashed into poverty are never
considered.

Creating a healthcare mandate that produces premiums that no one can afford,
calling it the Affordable Care Act and then putting the IRS attack dogs on
people who don't and can't afford to buy the insurance sounded good at one time,
but is a failure. Then, the Democrats trot out a candidate that deliberately
violated her oath of office in so many ways it is hard to enumerate and they
wonder how they lost.

This election had to do with people being so fed up with the status quo and the
perceived corruption of the establishment that they elected an egotistical
blowhard on the merits of being an outsider and seemingly having his heart in
the right place.

Emery Borsodi,

Las Cruces

Candidate with the most votes should win election

In America, the team that scores the most points wins. In competitions of all
sorts, the person who gets the most votes is declared the victor. Even at the
state level, the candidate who receives the most votes wins.

But when it comes to electing a person to lead our nation, the candidate who
gets the most votes doesn't always win, as it turned out this time around. Blame
the antiquated and badly outdated Electoral College, where each state is
assigned a set number of "electors" based on population and congressional
representation. In the recent presidential election, the Electoral College
system is the elephant in the room. Although the final vote counts won't be
known for a while, it looks like Hillary Clinton will handily win the popular
vote count. Nonetheless, Donald Trump triumphed because he won the most
electoral votes based on state totals.

This is only the fourth time this has happened in our nation's history, but the
second time it's occurred in this century. Al Gore received a half million more
votes than George W. Bush in 2000, but lost the election based on electoral
votes and a biased Supreme Court decision regarding Florida's vote count. This
legacy of America's earliest government enshrined in the Constitution needs to
be relegated to the trash bin of history. It likely won't be. Republicans,
especially, would oppose such a leveling of the playing field.

To amend the Constitution to do away with the Electoral College, two-thirds of
both houses of Congress must agree to bring it to a vote and then three-fourths
of state legislatures would have to vote to amend. Or a convention would have to
be called by two-thirds of the states to address the issue - not likely in a
nation virtually split 50-50 in governing philosophies.

Rob McCorkle,

Las Cruces

State Tax and Revenue needs to get on the ball

What is going on at the New Mexico Taxation and Revenue? I have three businesses
and file and pay gross receipt taxes (CRS) online. Two of those are quarterly
and one is monthly. Payments are taken directly from the checking account of
each business. What was due in October was paid. Today, I get a "Demand for
Payment" letter concerning each of my businesses, although the state has already
taken the amounts out of each account.

Of course, they added penalty and interest to each of the amounts due. What now?
Glitches? Someone needs to get on the ball.

Alice B. Davenport,

MOONBOW Alterations, Porch Light Press

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: lru


                       Copyright 2016 Las Cruces Sun-News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             964 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

It's your job, not Facebook's, to vet fake news

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 520 words


As Abe Lincoln used to say: "Don't believe everything you read on Facebook."

It's an old joke worth remembering as people dissect what's being called
America's first social media election.

Disturbing trends emerged: Fake news, dark posts aimed at suppressing voter
turnout and troll attacks.

There's an ongoing debate over the actual impact of social media on the election
and on turnout. But there's no question that Americans don't fully understand
the power of social media.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg is facing hard questions and offering to do more to
guard against fake news that makes money off the gullibility of Facebook users.

But the bottom line has to be the user: "Let the reader beware" should be
everyone's mantra.

Being a discerning consumer of information matters regardless of where you get
your news. A good journalist will tell you a single source is not enough.

Elections are about politics, but some of the fake news spread on Facebook was
more about money.

BuzzFeed News identified at least 140 sites pumping out fake political news
about the U.S. presidential race from one town in Macedonia.

The sites used Facebook to spread fake stories and generate traffic to their
websites, which translated into marketing revenue. Pro-Trump stories were better
clickbait, so that was the focus.

The sites had all-American sounding names like WorldPoliticus.com,
TrumpVision365.com, USConservativeToday.com, DonaldTrumpNews.co, and
USADailyPolitics.com.

"I started the site for an easy way to make money," a 17-year-old who runs a
site with four other people told BuzzFeed. Their site, called
Dailynewspolitic.com, is no longer functioning.

The false story that the pope endorsed Donald Trump and the false claim that
Mike Pence said Michelle Obama is the "most vulgar first lady we've ever had,"
were both from Macedonian sites. Each generated a huge volume of shares and
reactions on Facebook.

This made money for those apolitical teens in Macedonia. But it also may have
swayed Americans.

According to the Pew Research Center: "Overall, 20 percent of social media users
say they've modified their stance on a social or political issue because of
material they saw on social media, and 17 percent say social media has helped to
change their views about a specific political candidate."

That matters, too, when it comes to the use of "dark posts." These posts use
psychological profiles of Facebook users, which gleaned through preferences,
habits and those ubiquitous "quizzes" that tell you things like which Beatle you
would be.

Trump's digital team targeted dark posts to suppress the African-American vote
by sending select Facebook users a reminder of Hillary Clinton's comment about
"super predators."

Only those targeted saw the post.

Unlike those who see clearly identified political ads on TV, those who received
this message may not have known the goal was political manipulation.

Maintaining the integrity of this country's election process requires the
American people to show a healthy skepticism, double-check facts and remember
the profit motive behind those "free" social media services.

- The Arizona Republic

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: lru


                       Copyright 2016 Las Cruces Sun-News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             965 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Sound off

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 512 words


FAT SHAMING: Donald J. Trump was making fun of women for being overweight. Now
he wears a batman-type trench coat to hide his own weight problem.

BUS CRASH: Way too many bus crashes. Please update us about the Texas State
team's accident. Who is responsible, etc? Those of us who drove by the local
school bus accident this month never even learned if there were kids on board
when it happened. Please give us the news. (Editor's note: We wrote on the Texas
State crash that day. One player, two cheerleaders, a student coach and
videographer were injured and taken to the hospital as a precaution, as was the
driver.)

WHITE SUPREMICISTS: So Trump wants to know why the white supremacists are
energized? He disavows them, but he needs to find out why they are energized?
Let me say, they are energized by 18 months of hate mongering.

DIRTY TRICKS: There is no comparison with any other campaign in our history with
the hateful, misogynist and racist campaign of Donald Trump. The caller claiming
Democrats used those dirty political tactics in the Obama campaign with Mitt
Romney must have been on another planet. It never happened.

TRANSIT: I'll bet you that the Las Cruces and Doña Ana County bus systems
promote more global warming per person than any bus system in the United States.

AGGIE ATHLETICS: Whoever does the scheduling for football and basketball ought
to be replaced. The football and basketball teams don't play anybody. You can't
get better playing mediocre teams. Come on Aggies, you can do better than that!

CRIME: Yessiree Bob, another win for the Democrat DA, not giving a child
molester any prison time. This guy doesn't even have to register with the state
that he is a child molester. Way to go, Mr. DA.

FATALITY: I am very sad about the death of the little girl in the Anthony Gap
crash, but the adult driving the vehicle should be charged with child abuse
resulting in death because the child was not restrained.

GOVERNMENT: What Americans fail to see is that gridlock is not such a bad thing
in Washington. Gridlock has prevented the Republicans when they have power from
screwing up the economy so bad like they did in 2008, like the Depression in
'29.

BORDER SECURITY: Mr. Obama is continuing to show his true colors as he
discontinues aerial surveillance on the Mexican border, allowing drug runners
and illegals to come across. This country is suffering and we don't need an open
border bringing in more criminals.

CATHOLIC CHURCH: Pope gives priests power to forgive abortions. Since when did
the pope become God?

ELECTION: Will we be the nation that was telling the world how to vote and then
later for them to find out that our voting was rigged?

LETTERS: I thought it was great editorial discretion printing the two
contrasting letters to the editor on Nov. 23. The two could not have been more
starkly different and clearly show the sad division in our country.

SUN-NEWS: It appears we were "soaked" for all those advertisement pages in the
Sun-News. The news section was the same old Sun-News.

Be heard. Call 575-541-5466 or email soundoff@lcsun-news.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: lru


                       Copyright 2016 Las Cruces Sun-News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             966 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                   1 Edition

Your opinions;
Made the most of election by voting straight ticket

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 431 words


I, like everyone else, was concerned, disappointed and disgusted on the day
after the outcome of the presidential election, but I wasn't holding my breath.
Indeed, with so much blame to go around, the question for many must be what now
and where do we go from here?

But first let me assure all New Mexicans the Land of Enchantment did not betray
America's democratic principle. New Mexicans gave the Land of Enchantment a
fresh coat of blue paint as an example for all the dysfunctional, unproductive
red states to follow. New Mexico kept its democratic values intact.

Second, Donald Trump did not win the presidential election. Hillary Clinton won
the popular vote. And until our Constitution comes to terms as to what comes
first in a democratic process, the popular votes or Electoral Colleges; the
nation will not have a true democracy. The Republican Party will use the
Electoral College because that is only way they can win in rural red states.

One of the blames, I feel, should point to the Democratic National Committee.
The DNC didn't have a plan B, even though one existed at the time. The truth
might be the Democratic Party lost the executive, the legislature and the
judicial branches of government during the primary elections when the huge
crowds that a Plan B (Bernie Sanders) had begin to disappear and the opposition
(Donald Trump) crowds increased, leaving Hillary Clinton addressing small town
hall meetings and extracting money from financiers.

Indeed, as an octogenarian and a lifelong citizen of the Land of Enchantment, I
might not be around for the next presidential election, so I made the most by
voting straight ticket. That way I will leave the youth of America a legacy that
I did my best to protect their future.

Fermin-Fermon Torres

Las Cruces

Government must take extra care in hiring

The current political situation makes it imperative that our local governmental
bodies pay ever closer attention to those they are hiring. This is especially
true when the position within the governmental body is a senior administrator.

As taxpayers we pay the salaries for these officials, who oftentimes make far
more than we do. When seeking candidates for these positions, care should be
taken to ensure that the candidates have the same values as that of our
communities. This becomes very difficult to determine when seeking candidates
from across the country.

The highest insult to us (the citizens of Dona Ana County and New Mexico who pay
officials salaries) would be that a candidate is hired who hates us or certain
segments of our population.

Connie Armijo,

Las Cruces

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: lru


                       Copyright 2016 Las Cruces Sun-News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             967 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                               Modern Healthcare
                                 Print Version

                               November 21, 2016

No repeal without replace, CEOs urge, as Trump readies a new healthcare overhaul

BYLINE: Harris Meyer

SECTION: Pg. 6 Vol. 46

LENGTH: 1914  words


Shortly after Donald Trump's unexpected victory in the presidential election,
leaders of the six-hospital Mission Health system decided to put large capital
investments on hold. They wanted to preserve financial flexibility in case the
new Republican administration pushed through "very harmful changes and
reductions in payment," said Dr. Ronald Paulus, CEO of the Asheville, N.C.-based
system.

Meanwhile, Mission Health chose to continue investing in population health
initiatives, its new health insurance company and its Medicare Advantage
program.

Paulus said those decisions flowed out of the huge uncertainty caused by Trump's
and congressional Republicans' promise to rapidly repeal and replace the
Affordable Care Act. "It's eight years going in one direction, then turning on a
dime and going in a completely different direction," he said. "Uncertainty
wreaks havoc in any industry. As a nation, we should decide on a direction and
provide some long-standing stability."

Healthcare CEOs, Paulus among them, are willing to consider Trump's healthcare
reform ideas. But they have strong concerns about whether his plan would match
the ACA's performance in expanding coverage and slashing the uninsured rate to
less than 9%, according to Modern Healthcare's post-election Power Panel survey,
which got responses from 93 of 123 CEOs contacted. Leaders of large hospitals
and health systems are disproportionately represented on the panel, but the
participants also include CEOs of insurers, suppliers and technology companies,
as well as associations representing sectors across the industry.

Beyond the ACA, the CEOs surveyed stressed the need for action to curb the
growth of prescription drug prices, with 60% saying that should be a top
priority for the new administration and Congress.

Republican leaders are debating whether to quickly pass a repeal of most of the
ACA, possibly with a one- or two-year delay, then later craft a replacement
package. But 86% of the CEOs responding to the survey either strongly or
somewhat agreed that repeal should not proceed without a replacement plan that
provides affordable health insurance for all Americans who lack employer-based
coverage.

"You can't drop 20 million people from the insurance rolls," said Dr. William
Conway, CEO of the 1,200-physician Henry Ford Medical Group in Michigan. "I hope
there's no way to go back."

"I would hope and pray that we don't unwind the thing without anything to
replace it," Paulus said.

A Power Panel survey in May found that 67% of CEOs opposed repealing and
replacing the ACA.

In interviews, CEOs participating in the new survey worried that Republicans
will put even more reliance on high-deductible health plans, which they believe
are discouraging patients from seeking needed care. They also were wary of GOP
proposals to restructure Medicare and Medicaid-particularly when combined with
Trump's plans to sharply cut taxes and boost military spending-that may mean big
cuts in federal healthcare spending and reductions in payment rates to
providers.

On the other hand, they were confident that the ACA-driven shift from
fee-for-service to value-based payment, which they strongly favor, will continue
under a Republican-led government. They also predicted that the new, value-based
Medicare physician payment system, which the GOP-led Congress overwhelmingly
approved last year, would survive intact.

The CEOs-most of whom were shocked by Trump's election-urged the president-elect
and the new GOP-led Congress to move cautiously and deliberately and not throw
out what they see as the ACA's many valuable features, particularly its
extension of insurance to millions of Americans and its ban on insurers' use of
pre-existing conditions to deny coverage. Many hope Republicans ultimately will
choose to tweak the law rather than junk it and substitute an entirely new
system.

"The overriding issue is how we maintain coverage in this country," said Jim
Hinton, CEO of Presbyterian Healthcare Services in Albuquerque who soon will
take over as CEO of Baylor Scott & White Health in Texas. "When people don't
have coverage, all kinds of bad things happen. That's a really old story and we
don't want to get right back in the middle of that again."

Warner Thomas, CEO of Ochsner Health System in Louisiana, which recently
expanded Medicaid under the ACA, said what actually happens may be less drastic
than the rhetoric suggests. "The components of the ACA are working. Many need to
be modified, and hopefully those modifications will make it better for health
systems and beneficiaries."

While some CEOs express frustration with the reversal of direction promised by
Trump, others cautiously predict their organizations will adjust to the new
environment without major disruption. "The overall strategy for our system is to
move quickly to value-based care, and that was going to happen regardless of who
won the election, though the details might be a little different," said Barclay
Berdan, CEO of Texas Health Resources, a 19-hospital system based in Arlington.

Trump's campaign and House Republican leaders led by Speaker Paul Ryan have
offered sketchy replacement proposals featuring some combination of tax
deductions or credits to help people afford insurance, less regulation of health
plans, and more widespread use of high-deductible plans and health savings
accounts.

Fifty-seven percent of healthcare leaders surveyed said that approach might
offer a viable alternative to the ACA framework. But 41% either strongly
disagreed or somewhat disagreed that the GOP's free-market model would offer a
viable replacement package.

If the GOP replacement reduces how much consumers pay for healthcare, "people
will be all over it," Hinton said. But "if anything happens with the ACA repeal
that makes care more expensive, I don't think citizens will support it."

There was less openness to Trump's and Ryan's proposals for converting Medicaid
from an entitlement to a program of capped federal contributions to the states,
which would give state leaders great flexibility in setting eligibility and
benefits. Ryan has said he sees that approach saving the federal government lots
of money.

Fifty-five percent of the CEOs surveyed disagreed with the statement that the
ACA's Medicaid expansion to low-income adults should be maintained by turning
the program into block grants, while 40% agreed with that model.

"It might be good to let the states be creative, but if they cut more people off
the rolls, that wouldn't be good for providers or patients," said Conway, whose
state has expanded Medicaid.

"There's been a history that block grants can be a way to reduce spending,"
Berdan said. "Will there be some sort of standard, mandatory benefit? The
devil's in the details."

On the other hand, 75% of healthcare leaders agreed with the idea of preserving
the Medicaid expansion while giving states more flexibility in how they design
their programs. That could occur through Section 1115 waivers similar to those
granted by the Obama administration to Arkansas, Indiana and Iowa.

"It all depends on how the state administers Medicaid," said Dr. Larry Kaiser,
CEO of Temple University Health System in Philadelphia, whose state expanded
Medicaid. "If there's any reduction in government payment, we as a safety net
hospital would be the one suffering first."

Several of the CEOs interviewed expressed misgivings about GOP proposals to
expand the use of high-deductible plans. Surveys show that consumers are
increasingly concerned about the affordability of care under these plans, which
are increasingly common in both the individual and employer markets.

"We've floated those deductibles so high that for the average person, it is no
longer insurance," said Presbyterian's Hinton, whose system operates an
insurance arm that withdrew from the ACA exchange market but still sells
individual plans outside the exchange. "That pushes the burden onto hospitals or
physicians to collect what people may not have."

Nearly all the CEOs surveyed said they want to see the ACA's emphasis on
value-based payment maintained no matter what happens with the law. But the fate
of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, which the ACA established to
design and operate value-based payment demonstrations, is in doubt under the
Trump administration, creating uncertainty about who will lead this movement.

CEOs said they would like to see the CMMI preserved, with 54% rejecting the
statement that it should not be allowed to establish mandatory demonstrations,
such as its bundled-payment initiative for joint replacements in 67 markets.

"I think-I hope-that we'll continue to see there's value in having a nimble,
well-financed research and development arm like CMMI," said Dr. Richard
Gilfillan, CEO of the 90-hospital Trinity Health system based in Livonia, Mich.,
who was the center's first director. "How they decide to implement the findings
from CMMI is another question."

On other issues, healthcare leaders chose prescription drug costs as their top
concern from a list of 15 issues-cited by 60.2% of participants. Other leading
priorities were making healthcare for individuals and families more affordable
(39.8%); developing a plan to address behavioral health (32.4%); investing more
in improving public health and reducing health disparities (29%); and clarifying
antitrust policy on provider and insurer consolidation (22.6%).

The CEOs said prescription drugs were the most unmanageable cost providers and
patients face, and they pleaded with policymakers to address the problem-though
they weren't confident the new administration would take on the powerful
pharmaceutical industry.

"Drug costs are a huge monkey on the back of health systems and consumers,"
Presbyterian's Hinton said. "It's hard not to be outraged by some of these drug
costs. As a country we have to come to some agreement on this."

Healthcare leaders are watching Washington closely to see what healthcare
strategies the Trump administration and congressional GOP leaders are devising.
Intermountain Healthcare CEO Dr. Marc Harrison said his organization sent
strategy officers to Washington after the election to gather intelligence, and
they will report back to Salt Lake City headquarters this week.

Marla Weston, CEO of the American Nurses Association, said her organization will
step up its lobbying to ensure that whatever ACA replacement plan Republicans
develop is consistent with ANA principles. The association will be working with
the new Coalition to Keep America Covered to achieve those goals.

"We have a lot of new players in the new administration who don't have as much
information as we front-line providers have," Weston said. "We're hoping to
educate people on the drivers that really do improve access, quality and
affordability."

For better or worse, healthcare leaders recognize big changes are likely ahead
and their organizations will have to adapt, just as they laboriously did over
the past six years of ACA implementation. They just hope the new round of
reforms truly leads to a better healthcare system.

"We're all in this together when it comes to healthcare; it touches everybody,"
Hinton said. "If we come together, we'll be a lot happier with the outcome."

MH TAKEAWAYS Many healthcare CEOs say they're open to tweaks to the ACA's
insurance marketplaces and Medicaid, but they also yearn for stability and fear
the consequences for their organizations and patients if millions of Americans
lose coverage.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: MH


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             968 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                           Crain's New York Business
                                 Print Version

                               November 21, 2016

Enough already, Cuomo and de Blasio. New York faces bigger issues

SECTION: Pg. 4 Vol. 32

LENGTH: 445  words


The hostility between Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio has never been
good for New York City, but it's especially bad now that the city is facing
policy and funding threats from an upended federal government. It is past time
for the two men to fix their relationship.

The mayor and governor don't deny that there's an issue-at least, they have
stopped claiming to be friends. But they insist that their administrations
cooperate and that the people's work is getting done. Talk to folks in the know,
though, and they will tell you that many joint efforts are not even attempted
because the two executives don't get along.

This could be because Cuomo doesn't want to share credit with the de Blasio
administration. Maybe he doesn't want a partner whose bureaucracy or ideology
might slow down an operation or require compromises. Also, the governor surely
sees a political benefit to diminishing a mayor who is unpopular in the suburbs
and upstate, and not especially liked in his own city, for that matter.

Still, Cuomo's approval ratings don't depend on de Blasio being his foil or
whipping boy. The governor just needs to be an effective manager, and for the
most part he has been.

What's needed now is a united front. What is good for New York City is good for
the state, since the city sends more to Albany in taxes and fees than it gets in
return. And much of what New York City gets from the federal government comes
through the state, though that funding could take a hit if congressional
Republicans make good on promises to reduce spending when President-elect Donald
Trump takes office in January.

Immigration and tax reform are shaping up to be fierce battlegrounds next year.
New York's leaders should work together to oppose policy changes harmful to our
economy. If companies cannot import foreign talent and deportations break up
families that staff and own businesses across the city, innovation and commerce
will suffer. Our wallets would take a hit if we lost the option to deduct state
and local taxes on our federal returns.

The wild card is the 2020 presidential race. Democratic Party leaders are
already scouring the land for candidates, and as one of the few big-state
Democratic governors, Cuomo has seen his name come up. De Blasio has also been
mentioned, though he lacks the charisma and political independence that got Sen.
Bernie Sanders to the cusp of the Democratic nomination.

If the governor and mayor see themselves as rivals for the White House,
reconciliation won't happen. But if, say, the mayor were to rule out a campaign,
Cuomo could make peace and look presidential instead of petty. And New York
would benefit from their détente.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: CN


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             969 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Detroit Business
                                 Print Version

                               November 21, 2016

Just when you thought it was over, here's the 'Next Big Thing'

BYLINE: Keith Crain

SECTION: Pg. 8 Vol. 32

LENGTH: 404  words


While most of the world is talking about new U.S. President-elect Donald Trump
and what it all means to the world and to the nation, others are looking to
another race that will make a lot of news in coming months.

I'm talking about the race to succeed Rick Snyder as governor of Michigan.

Yes, I know. The newly elected president is not even in office, and I dare to
mention the "Next Big Thing." But people are already picking sides and
candidates for primaries in August 2018.

And most important of all, they're out trying to raise money. Lots of it. You
can't cover the state with just one television station or one newspaper
advertising "buy," so the money will spread out for a lot of candidates.

My guess is that it will be a fierce campaign - even in the primary. And chances
are pretty good that there will be plenty of mudslinging as well. I fear that
that will become the norm for a while.

Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette has been running for quite a while; he
seems to be spending all of his energy trying to promote the idea that our
governor is responsible for the water pollution in Flint. (They're members of
the same political party.) This tactic will probably backfire, in my opinion.

Lt. Gov. Brian Calley is quietly waiting, perhaps until he is unleashed by the
governor sometime soon.

It is rumored that the best vote-getter in the state, Republican Candice Miller,
has vowed to stand aside and let her good friend and ally Mark Hackel run on the
Democratic ticket. What happens if he does not get the nomination is anyone's
guess. Not to mention that Miller has a new job this fall anyway, cleaning up
the water department in Macomb County.

Other names are mentioned for the Democrats, including Dan Kildee of Flint
(another candidate who can run on what went wrong in Flint) and Gretchen
Whitmer, a former lawmaker and daughter of former Blue Cross CEO Dick Whitmer.

I have no doubt we'll be hearing about other new candidates just about every
week. There seems to be no clear path to the nomination by either party.

My guess is the primary battles may be more interesting than the final campaign.

If you thought there was a recession in our state, guess again. Like the
presidential election, these candidates will be able to raise millions of
dollars. When Snyder was re-elected in 2014, the campaign spending on both sides
was pegged at $30 million.

I guess it will never end. It's what we call a democracy.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CD


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             970 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Pensions & Investments
                                 Print Version

                               November 28, 2016

Investors remain cool to increase in Treasury yields;
Many not convinced post-election spike will be new normal

BYLINE: PAULINA PIELICHATA

SECTION: Pg. 6 Vol. 44

LENGTH: 1046  words


Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries hit a 2016 high in the days following the U.S.
presidential election, but asset owners won't be boosting bond allocations just
yet.

Their reasoning: It's unclear whether higher yields are here to stay.

The 10-year U.S. Treasury yields surged 40 basis points in the week ended Nov.
18 to 2.3%, rising to close at 2.35% on Nov. 23, the highest level this year, as
markets evaluated the impact of U.S. President-elect Donald J. Trump's upset and
expectations of rising interest rates and inflation.

Bern-based David Engel, portfolio manager at the 36.5 billion Swiss franc ($39.9
billion) Swiss Federal Pension Fund PUBLICA, which as a collective comprises 20
pension funds, said: "Generally higher yield is positive for the overall fund,
including liabilities. (Nevertheless) our strategy hasn't changed," he said.

"Since Mr. Trump hasn't even taken up office yet, we consider the current move
to be a market overreaction and therefore bond prices to at least stabilize in
the foreseeable future, before they start to fall, due to higher inflation
expectations and a more hawkish attitude from the (U.S. Federal Reserve)," said
Arnd Sieben, Munich-based, CIO of BayernInvest Kapitalverwaltungsgesellschaft.

Fiscal measures touted by Mr. Trump, including big tax cuts and increased
infrastructure spending, solidified the expectation among global managers that
the Fed will increase rates at its next meeting in mid-December.

Asset owners and money managers say they have anticipated these developments.
The fact that bond yields are going up at this point in the economic cycle did
not surprise them as much as the fact they did so soon after Mr. Trump's
victory.

Mr. Sieben, whose capital management company, KAG fund, BayernInvest is part
asset owner and part manager, said he doesn't expect institutional investors to
immediately tune asset allocation in favor of bonds.

"Those (investors) that need to serve regulatory requirements are limited and
those that need to meet nominal liabilities will have to wait for even higher
yields to occur," he said.

Luiz Cardosa, CIO of the $1 billion Nucleos-Instituto de Seguridade Social, Rio
de Janeiro, agreed with Mr. Sieben.

"We believe rates have to go up before institutional investors come back to the
market."

Mr. Cardosa said the impact of Mr. Trump's election was "that our yield curve
was lifted because of expectations that he may implement a more active fiscal
policy increasing government expenditures."

He added "the central bank (in Brazil) has just started to reduce the short-term
rate last month, therefore we will not move any money to U.S. 10- or 30-year
Treasuries."

David Morton, chief market strategist at Rocaton Investment Advisers LLC based
in Norwalk, Conn., said "some asset owners with long-term views see elevated
yields as an opportunity to reinvest cash flow at a higher rate ... definitely a
positive development for asset owners."

Short-term mode

In a rising rate environment, asset owners and asset management firms are
operating in a short-term mode, preparing for the incoming president's first
moves. Some global managers said they believe Mr. Trump's election potentially
put an end to very low interest rates and that the expected fiscal stimulus will
force the U.S. central bank to accelerate the pace of future monetary policy
decisions. According to them, the Fed will hike rates at least once in 2017.

David Long, senior vice president and CIO, asset liability management,
derivatives and fixed income at the $63.9 billion Healthcare of Ontario Pension
Plan, Toronto, said "rates can probably rise from here both in U.S. and Europe."

"As rule of thumb, if there is a market expectation of an interest rate hike,
markets generally don't react but if there is an expectation and there is no
hike - then we could see a different reaction.

"Twenty-five basis points on Fed funds in December is today's expectation," he
said.

There also is uncertainty about whether Mr. Trump will be able to carry out his
reforms. From long-term investors' point of view, the steepening of the yield
curve in the short term does not alter the wait-and-see strategy.

Rocaton's Mr. noted that an increase in interest rates by the expected 25 basis
points doesn't matter for 10-year and 30-year Treasury curves.

Still, observing yields go up globally, European institutional investors might
begin to tweak portfolios.

As U.S. Treasury yields pull the trajectory of German bund yields upward,
European asset owners agree they have gone up due to fundamentals, not only
because of Mr. Trump's election.

Stockholm-based Par Magnusson, senior rate strategist, at Swedbank said, "Short
term we expect a steeper U.S. curve relative to Germany and Scandinavia, while
seeing a potential for the spread to widen between 10-year U.S. Treasuries and
other safe-haven sovereigns."

BayernInvest's Mr. Sieben said, "We recommend a USD long position and to
slightly shorten duration."

Elevated yields have also delayed the prospect of tapering by the European
Central Bank, with some managers saying it is now almost certain to extend QE
beyond its current schedule.

According to Leon Cornelissen, chief economist of Rotterdam-based Robeco,
elevated bond yields mean more eligible instruments are available in the
marketplace for the ECB to purchase. "It is now most probable that (ECB
President Mario) Draghi will extend the QE because any tapering would push
yields higher up," he added.

According to Stephan Hirschbrich, head of global rates at Union Investment in
Frankfurt, yields of 10-year U.S. government bonds will be at 2.8% by the end of
2017 and 10-year German government bonds will be at 0.6% yield, compared with
the present 0.35%, he said.

"QE extension should also set a limit to price losses," he said.

Volatility is expected to continue to be a theme in the coming months.

The Italian referendum on Dec. 4, centering on constitutional reform, could
bring tapering back into the mix, managers said.

Another big unknown: The outcome of 2017's presidential election in France.
Polls suggest far-right leader Marine Le Pen is expected to make it to the final
run-off in May.

"Should Le Pen win the French election all bets are off and we could see a
massive flight to quality in the bond market," said Mr. Magnusson.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PI


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             971 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                             Pensions & Investments
                                 Print Version

                               November 28, 2016

U.S. election aftermath good for U.K. corporate pension funding

BYLINE: SOPHIE BAKER

SECTION: Pg. 8 Vol. 44

LENGTH: 245  words


U.K. corporate defined benefit funds saw a £35 billion ($44.1 billion)
improvement in deficits in the week after the U.S. presidential election, which
is helping unwind damage done by the U.K.'s vote to leave the European Union,
Hymans Robertson said.

The consultant added that the data from its 3DAnalytics platform show how
volatile deficits can be. U.K. DB plan deficits now stand at £825 billion, said
the consultant, down more than £200 billion from the all-time high of £1.03
trillion in August. The deficit reduction was attributed to rising bond yields,
in part due to revived inflation expectations in response to policy pledges made
by President-elect Donald J. Trump.

"Following a significant rally earlier this year, we've been seeing positions in
fixed-income assets unwind due to emerging signals from the Federal Reserve of
high economic growth and interest rate rises which have been amplified
significantly by what the market has been calling the 'Trumpflation' trade,"
said Calum Cooper, partner at Hymans Robertson, in a statement accompanying the
data. "This has seen increasing allocations to growth-focused assets that are
likely to benefit from the expected policies of the president-elect, such as
spending on infrastructure, tax cuts and trade protectionist policies."

Mr. Cooper said pension funds should not be knocked off course by the volatility
of deficits and should retain a long-term focus "through short-term political
fog and uncertainty."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PI


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             972 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                                Investment News
                                 Print Version

                               November 28, 2016

Trump win prompts optimism, risk-taking among wealthy investors;
UBS survey finds nearly half of respondents are feeling good about economic
future

BYLINE: CHRISTINE IDZELIS

SECTION: Pg. 15 Vol. 20

LENGTH: 567  words


WEALTHY INVESTORS are more confident since Donald Trump won the U.S.
presidential election, signaling more faith in his ability to address the
economy, health care and U.S. national security, according to a UBS Wealth
Management Americas survey.

Forty-eight percent are optimistic about the economy over the next year,
compared to 39% before the election, UBS found in a survey of 1,200 wealthy
investors immediately before and after the election. Fifty-three percent now
expect positive returns from the Standard & Poor's 500 index in next six months,
up from 25% before the election.

UBS found that Mr. Trump's positioning as an outsider was critical to his
surprise victory, with 90% of high-net-worth investors indicating Washington was
in need of a shake-up. While that anti-establishment stance earlier created some
anxiety among investors about how Mr. Trump's policies would play out in the
markets, many now are expressing enthusiasm about the prospect of fewer
regulations.

"Before the election, we saw many investors adopt a defensive stance, raising
cash and moving away from stocks," said Paula Polito, client strategy officer of
UBS Wealth Management Americas. "With the election behind us, many investors are
looking ahead with a growing sense of optimism about the economy and the
markets."

Thirty percent increased their cash holdings before the election, as many
shifted to a more conservative asset allocation and cut back on spending,
according to the survey. After Mr. Trump won, the number of investors planning
to increase investments in the stock market almost doubled, to 17%.

LESS REGULATION

Trump supporters tout less regulation, a greater sense of national security and
improved infrastructure, according to the UBS survey. One-third of investors
expect their taxes to decrease during his presidency, with many saying they
would increase investments, spending and charitable donations as a result.

The core group of investors surveyed by UBS have a least $1 million to invest,
with lower minimums for affluent millennials who are in the early stages of
building wealth.

More than half of those surveyed plan to talk to their financial advisers about
policy changes that will impact their investment portfolios and financial
planning strategies under a Trump administration. Forty percent plan changes to
their portfolios, with decisions mostly informed by their political leanings,
according to the survey.

Thirty-three percent of Trump supporters are increasing their investments in
U.S. stocks, while many Hillary Clinton backers are shifting to a more
conservative allocation after the election, including 28% who said they're
raising cash.

TRUMP'S TEMPERAMENT

Mr. Trump's temperament is a concern among all investors surveyed by UBS, with
58% saying that starting another war may be one of his biggest potential
mistakes while in office. Eighty-seven percent of Clinton supporters are "highly
worried" about what he will do as president, with more than half seeing the
potential for a recession.

Mr. Trump was viewed as the stronger candidate on all but one of wealthy
investors' top five issues: the economy, health care, national security, foreign
policy and taxes. Ms. Clinton, the former secretary of state, was seen as
stronger on foreign policy, as well as on the matters least important for the
wealthy investors surveyed, including income equality, social issues and
education.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IN


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             973 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                                Investment News
                                 Print Version

                               November 28, 2016

Merrill unlikely to reverse fiduciary stance;
Wirehouse has gone public about decision to ditch IRA commissions

BYLINE: GREG IACURCI; giacurci@investmentnews.com

SECTION: Pg. 4 Vol. 20

LENGTH: 738  words


It's highly unlikely Merrill Lynch would reverse its position on scrapping IRA
commissions if the Labor Department's fiduciary rule were to be repealed under
Donald Trump's administration, according to industry watchers.

Marketing plays a large role in this analysis, they say. As the first wirehouse
to announce compliance plans for the regulation, which affects investment advice
in retirement accounts, Merrill Lynch has heavily promoted its wholesale shift
to advisory fees over brokerage commission as being in clients' best interests.

Merrill Lynch started a print, digital and social media campaign in early
November titled "We're committed to your best interest. Not the status quo." In
it, the firm said that it believes in having a "fair, transparent fee before we
start any work" and that it would not collect commissions on personal retirement
accounts.

"We believe we are honoring the spirit of the new [fiduciary] rules - not
looking for ways to get around them," the ad said. "Since Charlie Merrill
started this company, we have always been committed to our clients. Not the
status quo."

"I think they are probably trapped in a way the other firms are not," said Danny
Sarch, founder and owner of Leitner Sarch Consultants, a recruiting firm.
"They've used this as a marketing strategy. For them to reverse course is
probably more challenging than for other firms that have not been so public, à
la Commonwealth."

Since the U.S. presidential election, stakeholders have voiced a variety of
opinions on the fate of the fiduciary rule, with some saying it is safe from
repeal and others sounding off on its likely demise through a variety of
strategies.

COMMONWEALTH

Executives at Commonwealth Financial Network, an independent broker-dealer that
followed Merrill Lynch in announcing a shift away from commission retirement
accounts upon the rule's taking effect in April, recently indicated they would
reverse that decision if the rule were killed.

In the meantime, Commonwealth is moving ahead with its compliance schedule and
its previously announced business changes, according to a statement.

Merrill Lynch spokeswoman Susan McCabe declined to comment on the firm's course
if the DOL fiduciary rule were to be repealed. People familiar with Merrill's
compliance decisions say it is moving ahead with compliance in the meantime.

It's unlikely Merrill would follow Commonwealth's line of thinking, according to
Mr. Sarch.

"They'd have a tougher time putting the fiduciary genie back in the bottle
because they've been so public about this being the right thing for their
customers," he said.

LARGER ADVISER FORCE

Commonwealth also has a fraction of the impact of Merrill given Merrill's much
larger adviser force and reach, he said.

Some speculated that Merrill's compliance decision would push advisers to seek
broker-dealers that are going to continue to allow commission accounts under the
regulation.

But moving toward advisory-only business is the direction Merrill Lynch was
headed as a firm anyway, said Robert Cirrotti, managing director of investment
and retirement solutions for Pershing.

And there are a number of actions Merrill could take to lessen the effects of
the switch to advisory accounts "without creating perceived inconsistencies"
with the overarching spirit of the rule, he said.

"There are things they could do on the margin that are more accommodating to
advisers," such as a less aggressive push from commission to advisory accounts,
Mr. Cirrotti said.

David Levine, principal at Groom Law Group, agreed, saying concepts from the
regulation would likely remain but would be tweaked.

"I do think people may choose certain pieces and concepts," Mr. Levine said,
while stressing that this all presupposes the fiduciary rule is repealed, which
isn't a given. "I think it will be a hybrid between business and legal
compliance."

Similarly, Jeffrey Lieberman, counsel in the executive compensation and benefits
group at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom, said companies potentially could
make some "accommodations" for smaller accounts that don't trade very much.

"They might be able to find ways to continue somewhat what they've done before
with small [commission] accounts, and say, 'Maybe we can give you a little more
info than we thought we could'" under the fiduciary rule, Mr. Lieberman said.

"In some ways we may have a more fragmented compliance world than we have now,"
Mr. Levine said.

Twitter: @giacurci

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IN


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             974 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                                Investment News
                                 Print Version

                               November 28, 2016

If not the DOL rule, industry needs some higher standard

BYLINE: BRUCE KELLY; bkelly@investmentnews.com

SECTION: Pg. 2 Vol. 20

LENGTH: 883  words


Many in the financial advice industry reacted with jubilation after Donald
Trump's upset victory in the presidential election. As a pro-business
Republican, Mr. Trump leaves little doubt to many investment advisers and
brokerage executives who voted for him that he will move to slash regulations
across a number of industries, including financial services.

Clear steps in the process have yet to emerge, but Mr. Trump could very well gut
the Department of Labor's fiduciary rule. The 1,000-page backbreaker of a rule
has added millions of dollars of new costs for large broker-dealers such as
Ameriprise Financial Inc. and Raymond James Financial Inc. and pushed smaller
firms to the brink of shutting their doors for good.

As it now stands, the DOL fiduciary rule is cumbersome, confusing and expensive
for businesses to put into place. (How on earth are firms to set guidelines for
"reasonable compensation," a key element of the rule, anyway?)

Yes, the DOL rule has shortcomings, but that doesn't mean that some kind of move
away from the suitability standard isn't necessary. Quite the opposite. Recent
regulatory actions, as well as conversations with advisers, clearly demonstrate
that some sort of low-cost, common sense fiduciary standard requiring sales
people to put a client's interest first is sorely needed in the financial advice
industry.

SUITABILITY LACKING

First, the suitability standard for brokers is out of date and too wishy-washy
for our data- and technology- driven era. Next, the financial advice industry
needs a simple fiduciary rule for all advisers that would force broker-dealers
and registered investment advisers to look more closely at the pricing of
products sold to clients.

A glance at two recent regulatory actions from the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority Inc. shows there is little doubt but that firms have their work cut
out for them when giving appropriate discounts to clients. Finra this month
banged two independent broker-dealers, H.D. Vest Investment Services and MML
Investors Services, for not waiving front-end fees on mutual fund A shares
purchased by retirement plans and charitable organization customers.

The two broker-dealers "disadvantaged" their clients by selling them "Class A
shares with a front-end sales charge or Class B or C shares with back-end sales
charges and higher ongoing fees and expenses," according to the two Finra
actions, which were worded identically. In other words, the two firms failed to
give customers who bought A shares appropriate discounts. The firms also set
themselves up for a double dip by selling B and C shares, which had delayed
sales charges plus higher fees, to other clients.

FINRA CENSURES

Both firms received censures from Finra over the matters, meaning notices of
formal and public disapproval. Neither was fined but they were ordered to
provide remediation to eligible clients who bought the funds from July 2009
through this year.

"After analyzing the data during an internal review, [MML] self-reported this
matter to Finra," said spokesman Michael McNamara. "We are currently in the
process of reimbursing those clients who were affected, and are pleased to now
put this issue behind us."

A spokesman for H.D. Vest, Joseph Kuo, declined to comment.

Meanwhile, other discrepancies in pricing that ultimately benefit the adviser
instead of the client recently came to my attention when a retirement plan
adviser, Emery Levick, called me to discuss a type of flagrant double dip he ran
across recently when taking a look under the hood of the portfolio of a
prospective client.

Mr. Levick, a manager for small pension plans, said he was speaking with a board
member of a pension fund that was not his client but was interested in getting
Mr. Levick's opinion about the pension plan's portfolio. It turns out the
adviser for the pension plan bought A shares when the client was abundantly
qualified for cheaper, low-cost institutional, or I, shares of the same fund,
according to Mr. Levick. By not buying mutual fund I shares for one bond fund,
the adviser added an extra 24 basis points in costs per year for the pension
plan.

"When I see a plan holding of $500,000 to $1 million in a fund with A shares,
there is absolutely no reason for that," said Mr. Levick, whose firm, U.S. Asset
Management, has $176.6 million in client assets.

"All versions of institutional funds charge a lower fee back to the fund," he
said. "Charging the full front-end load results in a massive difference in
performance. And if the manager is charging them a management fee on top of the
load or the 12b-1 fee, that's double billing."

STOP DOUBLE-DIPPING

If firms can't figure out how to price properly and stop double-dipping clients,
it's clear the financial advice industry needs a fiduciary standard.

After the Trump administration blows the current DOL fiduciary rule to
smithereens, officials from the DOL, Finra and the Securities and Exchange
Commission will be tempted to sulk. They shouldn't.

Instead, they should book a couple of rooms in Trump International Hotel down
the street from the White House, order a stack of pizzas and emerge only after
they have written a manageable, common-sense fiduciary standard to protect
investors. Don't give up on the fiduciary rule, but clarify and simplify it.

Twitter: @bdnewsguy

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IN


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             975 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Detroit Business
                                 Print Version

                               November 28, 2016

Epstein's Trump alliance could bridge political divides

BYLINE: Mary Kramer

SECTION: Pg. 6 Vol. 32

LENGTH: 488  words


Lena Epstein was married in early August, but she postponed her honeymoon in
Hawaii till December.

Why the delay? She grabbed the chance to co-chair Donald Trump's Michigan
presidential campaign after a three-minute interview with the candidate in a
campaign stop in Dimondale in mid-August.

"He asked me: 'Lena, how are we doing in the polls?' And I said, "Mr. Trump,
it's too early to be worried about polls. You've got to go out and wow this
crowd like you've done in every other state.'"

A few days later, she began her career as a co-chair and "Trump surrogate" on TV
and radio. "I never apologized for misstatements he made," Epstein said last
week as she reviewed her work on the campaign. "I would just pivot to why I
supported him: to grow the economy, protect our borders and have increased
opportunities for families and children."

Her straightforward responses - not excusing the bombast of the candidate or the
missteps like the infamous 2005 audiotape of Trump's lewd comments about
grabbing women, but focusing on issues many silent voters found important - made
her a popular fixture on talk shows, including some segments that were picked up
by cable networks in Europe.

But there were critics, too. "I grew a thick skin pretty quickly," she said.

If there is hope for creating a middle ground or at least a hint of civility
between Trump haters and Trump supporters, Epstein's saga may be helpful. She
breaks the mold of what the left envisions Trump voters to be.

Born to a Jewish family of staunch Democrats, Epstein and her sister Lily are
the third generation to run the family's Southfield-based Vesco Oil, a
distributor of lubricant products to customers ranging from car dealers and
oil-change outlets to manufacturers. The company has 200 employees and operates
in five states.

A Crain's 20 in their 20s honoree in 2010, Epstein says she started questioning
her political roots while an undergrad economics major at Harvard University.
She went on to earn an MBA at the University of Michigan.

"I literally had to Google 'Republican Party' because I didn't know any
Republicans," she said last week.

She knows plenty now. Earlier this month, she spoke at Temple Beth El about the
future of the Republican Party and how Americans - Republican and Democrat -
could come together.

Epstein herself bridges many political divides; she is active in Detroit,
including serving on the board of the Detroit Historical Society. Her family is
part of the city's history; she's the granddaughter of the late Stanley
Winkelman, whose eponymous stores were a retail staple in Detroit for decades.

At a donor party for the Detroit Historical Society two days after the
presidential election, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan teased Epstein, who has been a
Duggan supporter and contributor: "I thought for months, poor Lena, she has the
worst job in Michigan. Then on Wednesday morning, I thought: She's the smartest
person in Michigan."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CD


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


                             976 of 1291 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Chicago Business
                                 Print Version

                               November 28, 2016

A CALL TO ACTION;
The ugly presidential campaign spurred professional women in Chicago to become
politically active, many for the first time

BYLINE: ANNE MOORE

SECTION: Pg. 25 Vol. 39

LENGTH: 1216  words


Attorney Laurel Bellows joined 900 women from 60 countries for the International
Women's Forum annual conference in Chicago this fall. At every lunch and dinner,
she says, the conversation turned to the mistreatment of Hillary Clinton during
her campaign for president. "Women from all over the world asked, 'Why isn't she
respected?' "

The misogyny issue has galvanized professional women in Chicago. Many worked on
a political campaign for the first time-by hosting or going to fundraisers,
making phone calls, getting on buses, knocking on doors, writing
bigger-than-usual checks, registering voters and talking about this unfairness
at work and at play.

It's not OK, they said, that the nation discussed the color of Clinton's
pantsuits and whether they made her look fat. It's not OK that Donald Trump
called women pigs, dogs, slobs, disgusting animals. It's not OK that, during the
debates, he talked over Clinton and branded her a "nasty woman." It's not OK
that the president-elect bragged, in a 2005 video, that he'd groped women, which
he dismissed as locker room talk. It's not OK that women who came forward to say
they'd been sexually assaulted by Trump were not believed.

Professional women say they've faced the same sexism and sexual harassment in
the workplace, and spoke up for and donated time and money to Clinton's campaign
in the hope that her election would bring change. Now that she has lost,
outraged professionals are donating money to Emily's List, Planned Parenthood
and other rights groups; volunteering; speaking out; and banding together in new
ways to ensure that women's workplace and reproductive rights are not lost.

For example, the Chicago Network, an invite-only nonpartisan organization for
female leaders, hosted an audience-included roundtable Nov. 17 to discuss issues
most important to women over the next four years. These Chicago professionals,
including Vermillion restaurant founder Rohini Dey and media consultant Joyce
Winnecke, insist on having a voice in national policy and agenda; highlights of
that discussion are to be shared with the Trump White House.

Two rallies are planned for Jan. 21, the day after the inauguration: the Women's
March on Washington and a parallel event in Chicago. Hundreds of Chicago-area
women are said to be participating.

Bellows, who specializes in separation agreements, says she's seen sexism her
entire career, writing the send-offs for female executives passed over during
corporate mergers. To try to ensure Clinton's election, she set aside eight
hours per week, in one- and two-hour blocks, to make fundraising calls. "I
wasn't persuading anyone; I was reaching out to friends, asking them to give. I
said, 'Don't buy the boots this fall; give everything you can.' Then I asked
them to call 30 of their friends and say the same."

Lincoln Park real estate agent Debra Dobbs took action after griping with fellow
brokers at open houses earlier this year. "We're impassioned, invigorated and
very angry. This is a woman who is a brilliant strategist, who says women's
rights are human rights. How dare they talk about her haircut, that she looks
tired? It's wrong!" To support Clinton, Dobbs proposed to fellow professionals a
$500-per-person get-out-the-vote campaign with the aim of raising $150,000 to be
used in swing states.

'THEY GOT ON BUSES'

Democratic campaign officials locally saw a new kind of activist. Women, and
men, poured in, says Lauren Beth Gash, founding chair of the 10th Congressional
District Democrats, which has seven offices on the North Shore. "They were moved
to do something. They're Democratic voters who used to yell at the TV. They got
on buses, they knocked on doors, they made phone calls-even when they said
they're uncomfortable making phone calls. They were so angry at the way she was
treated and feared a Trump presidency. They were newly energized; we had no
trouble getting volunteers."

In Lincoln Park, 43rd Ward Committeewoman Lucy Moog saw the same uptick at
campaign offices, with people walking in on their way home from work. "They
would say, 'I'm not even a political person, but this is infuriating to me, and
I need to do something.' They went to Iowa, they canvassed, they made phone
calls. Blood was boiling."

Among her activists: Laura Kofoid, who described herself as "jacked up" over
Clinton's mistreatment. "I can relate to what's happening to Hillary Clinton
because I experienced it" in business school and in the corporate world, says
Kofoid, a Harvard MBA who worked in brand management at Procter & Gamble and now
owns Laudi Vidni, a custom leather handbag store in Lincoln Park. "Are you too
buttoned-up? Too prepared? How are you dressed? I talk about this with anyone
who will listen."

In the weeks before the election, in Skokie, 120 women of all ages looking to
get involved in the political process stopped in at Mom + Baby biweekly events
hosted by its founding president, insurance broker Alexandra Eidenberg. They
came in because they were appalled by what happened during the campaign, she
says, and stayed to talk about equal pay, family leave, jobs and career, the
future. "There's a lot of fear in the mom market."

Elsewhere on the North Shore, some mothers of adult women said this was the most
important election of their lives, a defining moment that sparked their
activism. "I was horrified by the misogyny in this campaign and felt the need to
speak up," says Nancy Fredman Krent, a consultant and retired attorney in
Highland Park who has three daughters. She'd always been interested in politics,
but this was her first outing in a campaign office, where she made phone calls
and input data. She volunteered 10-15 hours per week.

Ditto the formerly apolitical Nita Dean, mother of an adult daughter, who has
worked in management and sales for a chemical distributor and now runs an
interior design business out of her Fox Lake home. She still feels the sting of
sexism she endured in the workplace and wanted to see a woman president. She
spent 30 hours a week registering voters, assigning volunteers, and selling
buttons and yard signs.

Nationwide, not all professional women are in the anti-Trump camp and feel
mobilized to act. According to the Washington Post's exit polling, 45 percent of
white women with college degrees voted for Trump. But in Cook County, Clinton
outperformed Trump by more than 50 percentage points among all voters (and we
can assume nearly half were women), according to the Chicago Tribune.

The upside? Clinton's experience has become a teachable moment for workplace
consultants. "How would you handle 51 interruptions; what do you do?" asks
Andrea Kramer, an attorney at McDermott Will & Emery and co-author of "Breaking
Through Bias: Communication Techniques for Women to Succeed at Work."

With her husband, Alton Harris, Kramer hosted fundraisers for Catherine Cortez
Masto, a Democrat who won the U.S. Senate seat in Nevada being vacated by Harry
Reid. The couple also donated money weekly to women and men whose election would
have given Clinton an easier time in office.

"Every day in my office-in business meetings, at political events-we're talking
about and identifying the misogyny that exists in our day-to-day interactions
with clients and each other," Kramer says. "With this election, it's
top-of-mind."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: CCB


                       Copyright 2016 Crain Communication
                              All Rights Reserved


                             977 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

GOP has heart disease; Dems massive wound

BYLINE: NC Nunn Scott

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 609 words


While the challenges of the GOP   its long-term demographic difficulties, its
erratic leadership, the bitter struggle for its ideological soul   are obscured
by victory, the problems of the Democratic Party are on full display.
Republicans suffer from heart disease; Democrats have an ugly, gushing head
wound.

The losing party would be foolish to minimize the scale of its political
failure. Hillary Clinton proved incapable of defeating a reality-television host
whom more than 60 percent of Americans viewed as unfit to be president. It is
perhaps the most humiliating moment in the long history of Mr. Jefferson s
party. But the effect is more than reputational. The Democratic candidate and
her team could not protect the United States from a serious risk to its ideals
and institutions by an untested and unstable novice who flirted with
authoritarianism and made enough gaffes on an average Tuesday to sink a normal
presidential campaign.

Donald Trump was riding a modest electoral wave in certain parts of the country,
but it was not large enough to overwhelm a reasonably capable Democratic
candidate with a decent political strategy. Trump s vote did not burst the
levees; it barely lapped over the top of them in the industrial Midwest. The
blue wall  was too low by just a foot or two.

But why was the election even close enough for bad strategy in Wisconsin,
Michigan and Pennsylvania, or utter incompetence by the FBI director, to matter?
Trump obviously benefited from extreme polarization. The proposition  anyone but
Hillary  was tested, with Republicans (and others) ultimately rallying to
anyone.  The Obama coalition   including young, minority and college-educated
voters   did not turn out in sufficient numbers. And an appeal to racial and
ethnic resentment remains disturbingly potent in our politics   the continuing
evidence of America s original sin.

But here is the largest, long-term Democratic challenge: It has become a
provincial party. It is highly concentrated in urban areas and clings to the
coasts. But our constitutional system puts emphasis on holding geography,
particularly in the House of Representatives and the electoral college. It is
difficult for Democrats to prevail from isolated islands of deep blue. In 2012,
President Obama won the presidency with fewer than 700 counties out of more than
3,000 in the United States   a historical low. Clinton carried a little under
500   about 15 percent of the total.

This is another way of saying that the Democratic candidate for president can t
prevail   at least at the moment   when she receives less than 30 percent of the
vote from the white, non-college-educated Americans who live in the spaces
between the cities. Most of these voters were not examining public policy and
calculating their interests   except in the vague sense that they don t like
sending American jobs abroad and don t want anyone messing with their Social
Security. They were convinced that Trump had their back. Democrats have become
symbolically estranged from white, working-class America.

What are the Democratic options moving forward? First, there is the Bernie
Sanders option   the embrace of a leftist populism that amounts to democratic
socialism. This might also be called the Jeremy Corbyn option, after the leftist
leader of the British Labour Party who has ideologically purified his party into
political irrelevance. Second, there is the Joe Biden option   a liberalism that
makes a sustained outreach to union members and other blue-collar workers while
showing a Catholic religious sensibility on issues of social justice.

Michael Gerson is a columnist for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             978 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

For electoral college, angry phone calls

BYLINE: NC Vance Merton; The Washington Post; WASHINGTON   Tuesday of last week
was quiet. Wednesday was quiet, too. The pitchforks started arriving last
Thursday, about 36 hours after the presidential election was called. They were
virtual pitchforks, but still. Email after email. Tweets. Phone calls. Facebook
posts. Some profane. Some pleading. One subject line:  electoral votes are wrong
Another:  Vote in Hillary Clinton Dec. 19  Another:  Letter to America  Another:
HELP  So it goes at the Office of the Federal Register, which administers the
electoral college and now finds itself at the center of a populist brouhaha. The
electoral college is not an actual place - no grassy quad, nor group of people
sharing a space. It exists for one day every four years and then vanishes, like
Brigadoon, until the next presidential election. The closest thing to a physical
headquarters is this office, one half of the seventh floor of a neoclassical
brick building over an Au Bon Pain, six blocks north of the Capitol, in a
neighborhood historically referred to as Swampoodle. Over the past week, the
Office of the Federal Register has been inundated by Americans wanting to learn
about - or somehow control - the college, which is comprised of the 538 party
officials who will actually go about the formal business of electing Donald
Trump president on Dec. 19, based on the popular votes of each state. Many
people have something to say about that, partly because Hillary Clinton won the
most votes nationwide, partly because Donald Trump is Donald Trump.  It s just
that they keep coming,  says Miriam Vincent, staring at her inbox Wednesday
morning.  And every time we get close to having a handle on it, we get more. It
goes on. And on.  Her email pings.  And on.  Vincent has 558 unread emails, a
grande chai in her hand, and a big bottle of Excedrin Migraine on her cluttered
desk. She is a staff attorney in the Legal Affairs and Policy Division in the
Office of the Federal Register under the National Archives and Records
Administration. What that really means, right now, is that she is dealing with
the nation s collective freakout about the electoral college. Millions of Trump
haters who can t handle Clinton s loss are signing petitions to persuade
electors to vote as the majority of Americans did, which would be completely
permissible and also pretty unprecedented. Actual electors are being lobbied and
harassed, according to the Idaho Statesman, and this frantic energy has also
funneled toward the Office of the Federal Register, whose website is the second
Google hit when you search  electoral college.  Death threats. Promises of civil
war. Inappropriate photographs. Students with homework questions. A daughter of
Holocaust survivors who called to sob into the ear of a government bureaucrat. A
woman in Florida who wanted Vincent to do something about Russian hacking. Only
four employees work in Vincent s division. In the past week, each has taken on
the role of civics teacher, and the role of therapist.  You really need a thick
skin,  says Amy Bunk, the division director.  People are venting their
frustration. This woman, who didn t understand the system at all, ended up
accusing me of interrupting her and thinking she was stupid.  She sighs.  I
spent an hour on the phone with her.  The Office of the Federal Register has
pale blue walls and a ceiling of fluorescence. It looks like any warren of
nonpartisan bureaucracy: Cubicles. Giant binder clips. Stacks of blank paper.
Boxes labeled  FAA Airworthiness Directives.  Boxes of material labeled  BURN.
An old-fashioned card catalogue for the president s executive orders. An email
from Troy, Michigan, sent 93 minutes before Trump was declared the winner last
week:  OK I little confused..........tell why do we have a general election if
our vote does not count for the Presidential election?  The normal work in this
office is the publishing of the daily Federal Register, which includes
government agencies  notices and proposed rules, plus presidential documents
such as speeches and proclamations. It s America s paper trail, wide open for
anyone to see, textual government transparency in action. They ve processed over
28,000 documents so far this year. They publish every business day, even if D.C.
is closed for snow, even if the government is shut down.  And every four years
we have this dropped on us,  Vincent says. It goes back to a 1950 government
reorganization that moved administrative responsibility for the electoral
college from the State Department to the National Archives.  And we have it
because the archivist said,  You re doing it.  Maybe the (Register) director was
standing in the wrong place at the wrong time.

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 851 words


WASHINGTON   Tuesday of last week was quiet. Wednesday was quiet, too. The
pitchforks started arriving last Thursday, about 36 hours after the presidential
election was called. They were virtual pitchforks, but still. Email after email.
Tweets. Phone calls. Facebook posts.

Some profane. Some pleading. One subject line:  electoral votes are wrong
Another:  Vote in Hillary Clinton Dec. 19  Another:  Letter to America  Another:
HELP  So it goes at the Office of the Federal Register, which administers the
electoral college and now finds itself at the center of a populist brouhaha. The
electoral college is not an actual place - no grassy quad, nor group of people
sharing a space. It exists for one day every four years and then vanishes, like
Brigadoon, until the next presidential election. The closest thing to a physical
headquarters is this office, one half of the seventh floor of a neoclassical
brick building over an Au Bon Pain, six blocks north of the Capitol, in a
neighborhood historically referred to as Swampoodle. Over the past week, the
Office of the Federal Register has been inundated by Americans wanting to learn
about - or somehow control - the college, which is comprised of the 538 party
officials who will actually go about the formal business of electing Donald
Trump president on Dec. 19, based on the popular votes of each state. Many
people have something to say about that, partly because Hillary Clinton won the
most votes nationwide, partly because Donald Trump is Donald Trump.  It s just
that they keep coming,  says Miriam Vincent, staring at her inbox Wednesday
morning.  And every time we get close to having a handle on it, we get more. It
goes on. And on.  Her email pings.  And on.  Vincent has 558 unread emails, a
grande chai in her hand, and a big bottle of Excedrin Migraine on her cluttered
desk. She is a staff attorney in the Legal Affairs and Policy Division in the
Office of the Federal Register under the National Archives and Records
Administration. What that really means, right now, is that she is dealing with
the nation s collective freakout about the electoral college. Millions of Trump
haters who can t handle Clinton s loss are signing petitions to persuade
electors to vote as the majority of Americans did, which would be completely
permissible and also pretty unprecedented. Actual electors are being lobbied and
harassed, according to the Idaho Statesman, and this frantic energy has also
funneled toward the Office of the Federal Register, whose website is the second
Google hit when you search  electoral college.  Death threats. Promises of civil
war. Inappropriate photographs. Students with homework questions. A daughter of
Holocaust survivors who called to sob into the ear of a government bureaucrat. A
woman in Florida who wanted Vincent to do something about Russian hacking. Only
four employees work in Vincent s division. In the past week, each has taken on
the role of civics teacher, and the role of therapist.  You really need a thick
skin,  says Amy Bunk, the division director.  People are venting their
frustration. This woman, who didn t understand the system at all, ended up
accusing me of interrupting her and thinking she was stupid.  She sighs.  I
spent an hour on the phone with her.  The Office of the Federal Register has
pale blue walls and a ceiling of fluorescence. It looks like any warren of
nonpartisan bureaucracy: Cubicles. Giant binder clips. Stacks of blank paper.
Boxes labeled  FAA Airworthiness Directives.  Boxes of material labeled  BURN.
An old-fashioned card catalogue for the president s executive orders. An email
from Troy, Michigan, sent 93 minutes before Trump was declared the winner last
week:  OK I little confused..........tell why do we have a general election if
our vote does not count for the Presidential election?  The normal work in this
office is the publishing of the daily Federal Register, which includes
government agencies  notices and proposed rules, plus presidential documents
such as speeches and proclamations. It s America s paper trail, wide open for
anyone to see, textual government transparency in action. They ve processed over
28,000 documents so far this year. They publish every business day, even if D.C.
is closed for snow, even if the government is shut down.  And every four years
we have this dropped on us,  Vincent says. It goes back to a 1950 government
reorganization that moved administrative responsibility for the electoral
college from the State Department to the National Archives.  And we have it
because the archivist said,  You re doing it.  Maybe the (Register) director was
standing in the wrong place at the wrong time.

Miriam Vincent, staff attorney at the Office of the Federal Register, has been
bombarded with emails inquiring about the workings of the electoral college in
the wake of Donald Trump s election. EVELYN HOCKSTEIN/THE WASHINGTON POST

The electoral college is not a physical space. But it is administered by this
Washington agency, the Office of the Federal Register, north of Capitol Hill.
EVELYN HOCKSTEIN/THE WASHINGTON POST

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             979 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

The  war on normalization  has begun

BYLINE: NC Nunn Scott

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 739 words



T     he media is starting to normalize Donald Trump, and it should make you
very scared,  proclaims a headline at Salon.com. HBO s haughty in-house mocker,
John Oliver, says,  Optimism is nice if you can swing it, but you ve got to be
careful, because it can feed into the normalization of Donald Trump   and he s
not normal.

There is scads more of this stuff, but I have two points to make, so let s keep
moving.

The first point is not particularly new, but it s important to the handful of us
with the sacred right to say,  I told you so.

Or put another way: Where the hell were you people before? Throughout the
primaries, Trump s conservative opponents complained bitterly that the
mainstream media was normalizing Trump.

No one listened, for three reasons. Trump was good for ratings (and got billions
worth of free media as a result). CBS honcho Les Moonves said that Trump s
success  may not be good for America, but it s damn good for CBS.

Second, the mainstream media and numerous liberal pundits loved Trump s impact
on the GOP for the same reason bored teenagers like to throw lit matches into
dumpsters: Garbage fires are fun to watch.

The third reason is closely related to the second: The media thought Trump was
more likely lose to Hillary Clinton. (And so did the Clinton campaign itself, as
we learned from WikiLeaks).

In February, Jonathan Chait, a writer for New York Magazine and the author of a
forthcoming book explaining how super-terrific Barack Obama s presidency was,
wrote a piece titled  Why liberals should support a Trump Republican nomination.
He listed three reasons: Trump would lose, Trump would wreak havoc on the GOP,
and Trump would be better than the other Republicans candidates.

If he does win,  Chait wrote,  a Trump presidency would probably wind up doing
less harm to the country than a Marco Rubio or a (Ted) Cruz presidency. It might
even, possibly, do some good.

The day after the election, Chait declared on Twitter,  This is the worst thing
that has happened in my life.

OK, then.

Shortly after the election, Slate s Jamelle Bouie wrote a piece titled  There s
no such thing as a good Trump voter,  likening some 60 million Americans to a
racist lynch mob. Last year, Bouie penned an article with the headline  Donald
Trump is actually a moderate Republican.

Of course, Chait and Bouie are not alone. Progressive figures such as Paul
Krugman, Matt Yglesias, Robert Borosage, Amanda Marcotte and Bill Maher all said
during the primaries that Trump was less scary than, say, Rubio or Cruz.

Isn t it awfully late to be decrying the normalization of Trump when you were an
early adopter of normalization because you thought the horrible Democratic
nominee would have an easier time beating him?

That brings me to my second point: the normalization of the Clintons. Liberals
may have thought the Trump campaign s exploitation of the women Bill Clinton
allegedly (and in some cases admittedly) sexually mistreated was tawdry and
beyond the pale. Fair enough. But you know why such tactics worked? Because Bill
Clinton was tawdry and beyond the pale   but liberals not only normalized him,
they lionized him and demonized his critics.

You may object to Trump s allegedly shady business practices   I certainly do.
But I objected to the Clintons  schemes, as well. When the Clinton Foundation
finally started to become an issue in the campaign, James Carville insisted that
somebody s going to hell  for daring to question the Olympian goodness of
Clinton Inc. That encapsulates how the Clintons responded to all of their
critics: great moral superiority combined with base intimidation.

Liberals knew when Bill Clinton ran for president in 1992 that he was a tawdry,
corner-cutting cad (and that Hillary Clinton was a conspiratorial schemer). But
he was on their side, so it was OK. Besides, once elected, he deserved the
benefit of the doubt   even though he won a smaller share of the popular vote
than Trump did   because you only have one president at a time, and in a
democracy, elections are inherently normalizing.

Maybe Trump deserves similar treatment?

I m not trying to start a pointless debate about who is more abnormal (though I
d argue that Trump would win that contest). But it s worth pointing out that
when you spend a long time bending political norms for partisan reasons, those
norms eventually break. And this is what you get.

Jonah Goldberg is a senior editor of National Review.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             980 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

BYLINE: NC Nunn Scott

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 593 words


Constitution rules

A recent StarNews editorial ponders the nullification of the Electoral College
in favor of  majority rule.  That is the goal of Democrats who are working to
create a cartel of states representing 270 electoral votes. The cartel would
assure the election of the presidential candidate with the largest popular vote
total. This is expedient, because they know a Constitutional Amendment is not
viable.

The editorial rationalizes its position by saying communications are better now
than in the late 1700s. It fails to mention that election fraud would be
elevated from a supposedly rare aberration to a critical component of election
campaign strategy. Do you remember the hanging chad fiasco? Multiply that by 51
to appreciate what would happen if every vote, legitimate or not, could
literally decide the presidential election. Can you spell voter ID?

In large part the Founders created a republic, not a democracy, to protect the
less populous states from being overrun by the others. This cartel would render
most of the flyover states irrelevant.

Rather than join the cartel, North Carolina should be the first state to declare
that in the event the cartel over-rides the Electoral College, any NC
congressperson from the new president s party would be replaced by their
strongest election competitor. There are many ways to play political games.

Tom Newcomb, Wilmington

Election shenanigans

I must give Trump credit. He was right, the election was rigged!

First was the media. It gave Trump his start with huge amounts of free exposure
early on, with little questioning. He dominated the airways in the beginning and
it continued throughout the campaign. At the same time, we were bombarded 24/7
with every iota of Clinton s email usage, yet with comparatively little coverage
of Trump s business and tax skullduggery.

And then came Wikileaks, constantly releasing Clinton and Democrat emails in
detail. Note there was no countervailing exposure to Trump and Republican
emails. No matter, the networks  shameful feast on Clinton s continued unabated.

Then we have the FBI director s obscene interference in the election. His action
is without precedent.

One can t ignore our country s outrageous anachronism, the electoral college.
This system can deprive a majority of Americans their choice for president, as
it did in this election. Also, it negates the votes of millions of citizens who
reside in states that lean heavily toward one party.

Gary Faulkner, Wilmington

Clinton ghosts

Hillary Clinton will soon be back in the news. The FBI continues to investigate
her for multiple possible offenses. Until she is either cleared or prosecuted,
she will be with us.

We know that President Obama emailed her using an alias. Did they share
classified information on an unsecured server? Will he pardon her to stop the
investigations that might implicate him? Will he do a Gerald Ford and pardon her
to spare our country the agony of more investigations and possible prosecutions?
Top Clinton aide Huma Abedin and her disgraced husband, Anthony Weiner, had
650,000 emails on a home computer. How many were classified? Will she be
indicted? Will she rat out the Clintons and other DC power players?

Donald Trump repeatedly called her  Crooked Hillary.  Will he appoint a special
prosecutor to investigate the Clintons? That could take years and would be a
mess of the highest order. Will he disappoint his most vocal backers and do a
Gerald Ford?

Until there is finality, expect the Clintons to continue to haunt America.

Colin Eagles, Wrightsville Beach

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             981 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

BYLINE: NC Vance Merton; McClatchy Washington Bureau; WASHINGTON   In 1992,
President George H.W. Bush ceremonially signed the North American Free Trade
Agreement, slashing tariffs throughout Canada, Mexico and the United States. In
2016, the agreement signed by a Texas Republican faces its potential demise
through Republican President-elect Donald Trump, elected on a wave of populism
in Rust Belt states where free trade is seen as anathema to manufacturing jobs.
Republicans have generally supported free trade and expanding trade agreements
for decades. It was Democrats who vehemently opposed NAFTA in the early 1990s.
It was a coalition of labor unions, students and leftists who stormed the
streets of Seattle in 1999 to protest the World Trade Organization. And it was
Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders who pushed Hillary Clinton for months during the
Democratic presidential primary with his opposition toward the proposed
Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement. Texas Republicans in Washington and
Austin support free trade, as business interests have claimed the state benefits
from close economic ties with Mexico in particular.  NAFTA is not a dirty word
in Texas,  U.S. Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn said in an interview with the
Brookings Institution earlier this year. But Trump called NAFTA the  worst trade
deal ever  during the campaign and threatened to hike tariffs on certain Mexican
goods, worrying trade associations and business interests. The Texas Republican
Party went one step further, demanding an  immediate withdrawal  from NAFTA in
its 2016 platform. Yet Texas Republicans in Congress, the politicians whom Trump
will need to ratify a trade agreement, are hesitant to end a 23-year-old trade
deal with a country that shares a 1,254-mile border with their state.  NAFTA on
a net basis has benefited the country and benefited Texas hugely,  said U.S.
Rep. Joe Barton of Ennis, the longest-serving Texas Republican in Congress.  I
know the president-elect has some concerns about NAFTA. There s some industries
and areas of the country that have lost jobs. But I don t have an issue with the
president trying to renegotiate and take a second look.  U.S. Rep. Roger
Williams of Weatherford said,  I m a free trade guy  but that components of
NAFTA were negative.  NAFTA allows a lot of trucks from Mexico ... . They can
drive through without even being inspected,  Williams said.  That concerns me.
But there s some good things, too. I think you look at it on a piece-by-piece
basis, see what you keep and what you can t keep.  Williams likened Trump s
approach on NAFTA to the Affordable Care Act, the health care law widely derided
by Republicans that Trump has vowed to change, but not fully repeal. Fort
Worth-area Reps. Kenny Marchant, Michael Burgess and Kay Granger declined to
comment on the future of trade deals under Trump s leadership. Texas A&M
professor Parr Rosson, an agricultural trade specialist who worked with
businesses to implement NAFTA in the 1990s, said NAFTA helped thousands of
businesses indirectly.  Not only does trade result in jobs as far as the flow of
the products, there are investments in infrastructure,  Rosson said, adding that
manufacturers of freezer equipment benefit when free trade with Mexico allows
exporters to ship frozen goods over the southern border. The Texas Farm Bureau,
the largest organization of farmers and ranchers in the state, supports NAFTA
along with the Trans-Pacific Partnership and is worried about its future under
Trump.  We hope that we can find some common ground and move forward, whether it
s NAFTA that needs to be reworked or the TPP needs to be redone,  said Texas
Farm Bureau President Russell Boening, whose family has been involved in Texas
agriculture for 100 years.  We still have some support in Congress and I know we
have many in our congressional delegation that are in favor of doing something
on trade.  The bureau says certain agricultural commodities, notably Texas beef
cattle, are in high demand in international markets and that trade deals like
the TPP allow local businesses to expand their markets worldwide.  The beef
industry in Texas is huge,  Boening said.  The tariffs from Japan alone were
going to be substantially reduced on our beef going to Japan for the next 10 to
16 years.  espite the potential economic benefits of the TPP to Texas
agriculture, business interests and politicians are aware that its passage is
unlikely under Trump, who criticized the deal in a infomercial-style video
address earlier this week.  I am going to issue our notification of intent to
withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a potential disaster for our
country,  Trump said in the video.  Instead, we will negotiate fair, bilateral
trade deals that bring jobs and industry back onto American shores.  Barton said
he would  assume  that Trump would  renegotiate  the pending Trans-Pacific
Partnership.  We have zero or very low import barriers to products and services,
Barton said.  President-elect Trump rightfully doesn t like the way Obama
negotiated.  Williams wants to see the plan renegotiated on a piecemeal basis in
lieu of a large multinational agreement.  Remember, I m a car dealer,  Williams
said.  I sell cars one car at a time because every deal is different, and every
trade deal is different. What s good for Country A is not good for Country B. If
the president wants to negotiate it, that s fine, but we need to pass it in
Congress.  Democratic Rep. Marc Veasey of Fort Worth said the pact was dead due
to Trump s election and that the president-elect  will probably need Democratic
votes  to renegotiate trade deals.  Democrats have been expressing concern about
a lot of these trade deals for quite some time,  Veasey said.  TPP ... it s just
not going to happen now. We can take that off the table. There s not the will to
pass it, even in a majority-Republican House.  wo Cabinet positions, secretary
of commerce and secretary of agriculture, might play big roles in shaping the
future of trade deals under Trump, and Texans could occupy those roles in the
White House. Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry is under consideration for both
positions and Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller is being mulled for
secretary of agriculture, and both are supporters of free trade.  I want to open
up foreign markets to ag commodities,  Miller said in an interview.  There s not
one commodity turning a profit right now. NAFTA needs to be reworked. We don t
need to just throw it away, we need to take that document and improve on it.
One issue where Miller differs from his potential boss is opening up trade with
Cuba, something that agricultural interests in Texas support.  We need to open
up to Cuba,  Miller said.  It s 90 miles off our coast and they re buying up all
their commodities from Europe. I have been very aggressive on trade and he s
(Trump) known for making great deals.  Rosson said members of Congress from
Texas who once vocally supported free trade might stay quiet until it became
apparent which direction Trump was going to take, given that he won the White
House with votes from wide swaths of the electorate who did not support trade
deals.  In the near term, it would really help if the executive branch leads on
this,  Rosson said.  You hope things kind of go quiet and you don t have to
worry about it for a little while. Who knows what might end up happening?

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1229 words


WASHINGTON   In 1992, President George H.W. Bush ceremonially signed the North
American Free Trade Agreement, slashing tariffs throughout Canada, Mexico and
the United States. In 2016, the agreement signed by a Texas Republican faces its
potential demise through Republican President-elect Donald Trump, elected on a
wave of populism in Rust Belt states where free trade is seen as anathema to
manufacturing jobs. Republicans have generally supported free trade and
expanding trade agreements for decades. It was Democrats who vehemently opposed
NAFTA in the early 1990s. It was a coalition of labor unions, students and
leftists who stormed the streets of Seattle in 1999 to protest the World Trade
Organization. And it was Vermont Sen.

Bernie Sanders who pushed Hillary Clinton for months during the Democratic
presidential primary with his opposition toward the proposed Trans-Pacific
Partnership trade agreement. Texas Republicans in Washington and Austin support
free trade, as business interests have claimed the state benefits from close
economic ties with Mexico in particular.  NAFTA is not a dirty word in Texas,
U.S. Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn said in an interview with the Brookings
Institution earlier this year. But Trump called NAFTA the  worst trade deal ever
during the campaign and threatened to hike tariffs on certain Mexican goods,
worrying trade associations and business interests. The Texas Republican Party
went one step further, demanding an  immediate withdrawal  from NAFTA in its
2016 platform. Yet Texas Republicans in Congress, the politicians whom Trump
will need to ratify a trade agreement, are hesitant to end a 23-year-old trade
deal with a country that shares a 1,254-mile border with their state.  NAFTA on
a net basis has benefited the country and benefited Texas hugely,  said U.S.
Rep. Joe Barton of Ennis, the longest-serving Texas Republican in Congress.  I
know the president-elect has some concerns about NAFTA. There s some industries
and areas of the country that have lost jobs. But I don t have an issue with the
president trying to renegotiate and take a second look.  U.S. Rep. Roger
Williams of Weatherford said,  I m a free trade guy  but that components of
NAFTA were negative.  NAFTA allows a lot of trucks from Mexico ... . They can
drive through without even being inspected,  Williams said.  That concerns me.
But there s some good things, too. I think you look at it on a piece-by-piece
basis, see what you keep and what you can t keep.  Williams likened Trump s
approach on NAFTA to the Affordable Care Act, the health care law widely derided
by Republicans that Trump has vowed to change, but not fully repeal. Fort
Worth-area Reps. Kenny Marchant, Michael Burgess and Kay Granger declined to
comment on the future of trade deals under Trump s leadership. Texas A&M
professor Parr Rosson, an agricultural trade specialist who worked with
businesses to implement NAFTA in the 1990s, said NAFTA helped thousands of
businesses indirectly.  Not only does trade result in jobs as far as the flow of
the products, there are investments in infrastructure,  Rosson said, adding that
manufacturers of freezer equipment benefit when free trade with Mexico allows
exporters to ship frozen goods over the southern border. The Texas Farm Bureau,
the largest organization of farmers and ranchers in the state, supports NAFTA
along with the Trans-Pacific Partnership and is worried about its future under
Trump.  We hope that we can find some common ground and move forward, whether it
s NAFTA that needs to be reworked or the TPP needs to be redone,  said Texas
Farm Bureau President Russell Boening, whose family has been involved in Texas
agriculture for 100 years.  We still have some support in Congress and I know we
have many in our congressional delegation that are in favor of doing something
on trade.  The bureau says certain agricultural commodities, notably Texas beef
cattle, are in high demand in international markets and that trade deals like
the TPP allow local businesses to expand their markets worldwide.  The beef
industry in Texas is huge,  Boening said.  The tariffs from Japan alone were
going to be substantially reduced on our beef going to Japan for the next 10 to
16 years.  espite the potential economic benefits of the TPP to Texas
agriculture, business interests and politicians are aware that its passage is
unlikely under Trump, who criticized the deal in a infomercial-style video
address earlier this week.  I am going to issue our notification of intent to
withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a potential disaster for our
country,  Trump said in the video.  Instead, we will negotiate fair, bilateral
trade deals that bring jobs and industry back onto American shores.  Barton said
he would  assume  that Trump would  renegotiate  the pending Trans-Pacific
Partnership.  We have zero or very low import barriers to products and services,
Barton said.  President-elect Trump rightfully doesn t like the way Obama
negotiated.  Williams wants to see the plan renegotiated on a piecemeal basis in
lieu of a large multinational agreement.  Remember, I m a car dealer,  Williams
said.  I sell cars one car at a time because every deal is different, and every
trade deal is different. What s good for Country A is not good for Country B. If
the president wants to negotiate it, that s fine, but we need to pass it in
Congress.  Democratic Rep. Marc Veasey of Fort Worth said the pact was dead due
to Trump s election and that the president-elect  will probably need Democratic
votes  to renegotiate trade deals.  Democrats have been expressing concern about
a lot of these trade deals for quite some time,  Veasey said.  TPP ... it s just
not going to happen now. We can take that off the table. There s not the will to
pass it, even in a majority-Republican House.  wo Cabinet positions, secretary
of commerce and secretary of agriculture, might play big roles in shaping the
future of trade deals under Trump, and Texans could occupy those roles in the
White House. Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry is under consideration for both
positions and Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller is being mulled for
secretary of agriculture, and both are supporters of free trade.  I want to open
up foreign markets to ag commodities,  Miller said in an interview.  There s not
one commodity turning a profit right now. NAFTA needs to be reworked. We don t
need to just throw it away, we need to take that document and improve on it.
One issue where Miller differs from his potential boss is opening up trade with
Cuba, something that agricultural interests in Texas support.  We need to open
up to Cuba,  Miller said.  It s 90 miles off our coast and they re buying up all
their commodities from Europe. I have been very aggressive on trade and he s
(Trump) known for making great deals.  Rosson said members of Congress from
Texas who once vocally supported free trade might stay quiet until it became
apparent which direction Trump was going to take, given that he won the White
House with votes from wide swaths of the electorate who did not support trade
deals.  In the near term, it would really help if the executive branch leads on
this,  Rosson said.  You hope things kind of go quiet and you don t have to
worry about it for a little while. Who knows what might end up happening?

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             982 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

BYLINE: NC Nunn Scott; The Philadelphia Daily News

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 974 words


You re white, Christine. You don t get it.

You re straight, Christine. You don t get it.

You re gender-conforming, Christine. You don t get it.

You re not a Muslim, Christine. You don t get it.

You re a citizen, Christine. You don t get it.

You re not a real woman, Christine. You don t get it.

The  it  in these accusations, all of which I ve actually heard from people who
spend far too much time worrying about what I think, is persecution.

I apparently don t  get  why people were trembling and angry and marching after
Donald Trump s presidential election victory because I am not a part of a
vulnerable group, at least to the extent that vulnerable encompasses race,
religion, sexual orientation, and Hillary Clinton voters.

I m a walking insult to every minority that exists in this society because I
refuse to bundle up tiny emotional care packages for the afflicted and won t
walk on eggshells to avoid invading their  safe spaces.

In some of the Facebook groups to which I belong, I am persona non grating on
every blessed nerve because I refuse to let people tell me that I m blinded by
white privilege, cisgender privilege, U.S. passport privilege and all the other
privileges  the good fairies dumped in my bassinet when I was just a mewling
infant.

Not impressed, not buying your hysteria, not bowing and scraping in acquiescence
to your pain.

I get that there are some serious issues that need to be addressed, particularly
in the field of immigration, and I do not doubt the genuine distress that some
of the good people in this country are feeling about imminent deportation. As an
immigration lawyer, I m dealing with it and I m ready to stand between ICE
agents and my clients and use every legal weapon at my disposal.

On the other hand, I am not about to gin up fears that the wall is going to be
built tomorrow because doing so just allows unscrupulous men and women,
including some who call themselves social activists, to exploit the plight of
the undocumented.

But just as I feel the pain of a man or woman who faces separation from their
children, or who have legitimate worries about what Trump means when he says he
ll deport the criminals (jaywalkers? People who jump in line at Target? People
who park in the middle of the street?), I have no time for the hysterical
renderings of women who say their vaginas are going to be registered with the
government and they will be forced to breed babies to  make America procreate
again!  I have no time for rappers on Broadway who think it s important to
lecture future vice presidents about how to be nice to sexual minorities and let
them pee wherever the spirit   or the spritz   moves them.

And if you have a problem with my lack of empathy, you might not want to
continue reading, because it really gets good.

We the people elected a president, and while it might not be the president that
everyone liked or was rooting for or could even stomach without reaching for the
Dramamine, this man did not steal anyone s votes.

People went to the polls and picked the guy The New York Times and every other
newspaper not written in Cyrillic told them to avoid like the plague. They did
it. Many of us were not happy with the fact that he won, nor would we have been
happy if the woman challenging him had beat his orange tuchus. It was a
disgusting menu, and regardless of who was ultimately chosen, a majority of the
electoral diners were going to have a four-year case of nausea.

But again, it was done fair-and-square and this asinine hashtag #notmypresident
belongs in some sub-Saharan government where you win by killing your competitor,
not in the United States.

I definitely believe we should  come together,  but apparently that s
acquiescing in hatred and bigotry. To some people, including journalists,
self-styled activists and big-city mayors, we need to start hiding our gay,
female, undocumented, and transgender neighbors in the free room we use for
winter storage.

One of my friends said that if there is going to be a Muslim registry she, a
Catholic, will register as a follower of Muhammad. As someone who lived through
an earlier Muslim registry called NSEERS about a decade ago, I can pretty much
promise (a) it s not going to happen because (b) it didn t work the first time
around since (c) the government is inept at this sort of thing and (d) the ACLU
will justifiably and nobly fight it so (e) don t throw away your rosaries.

I m sure the people who like to feel victimized are outraged by my failure to
respect their victimhood. It is a powerful weapon, this need to make others feel
guilty about possibly causing pain. It is used to keep others in line, a passive
aggressive bit of genius to keep dissent at a manageable level. How dare you not
empathize with my fear that Donald Trump will dissolve my same sex marriage!
(Not happening, as he said on  60 Minutes. ) How dare you not understand my
horror at having to pay for my own birth control (that, maybe, will happen if we
can finally tweak Obamacare into a workable system.) How dare you not feel my
pain at the prospect of having to pee next to a man just because I have a penis
I never asked for. (I ll let Mike Pence deal with that one.)

It s the  how dares  that now determine how we deal.

I m sorry, but I will give every person his or her due respect. I will honor
their lifestyles, their beliefs, their political affiliations and even their
right to hate me. That is the essence of America.

But I will not be forced to legitimize their fears, fueled by partisan rhetoric,
whipped up into a fury by social media, carried to a crescendo by irrational
whisper down the lane  rumors and used against those who made the mistake of not
voting for Hillary Clinton.

I think Emerson said it best:

Let me never fall into the vulgar mistake of dreaming that I am persecuted
whenever I am contradicted.

Amen.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             983 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

Legislature, don t fool with governor s race

BYLINE: NC Nunn Scott; StarNews Editorial Board

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 470 words


Prior to 1836, the state legislature chose North Carolina s governor. In 2016,
it could do so again.

A little-known provision of the state Constitution provides that, in case of a
contested election for North Carolina s Council of State, the General Assembly
may vote to fill the position. The Council of State consists of the lieutenant
governor and eight other statewide elected officers, including the attorney
general, the state auditor among others, and is supposed to advise the governor,
oversee state property and perform various other duties.

The provision was last used in 2004, with a close race for state superintendent
of public instruction. The legislature, which was run by Democrats back then,
intervened, and June Atkinson, a Democrat, was declared elected. (Atkinson was
re-elected in 2008 and 2012 and was defeated in the Nov. 8 election by Mark
Johnson, a member of the Winston-Salem/Forsyth County Schools Board of
Education).

Now, the governor is not a member of the Council of State. Nevertheless, a
number of pundits are suggesting that if Gov. Pat McCrory doesn t like the
results of the recount in his close re-election race, he could appeal to the
legislature. Since the Republicans have overwhelming majorities in both houses
of the General Assembly, he can count on a sympathetic hearing.

One question that s not quite clear is what constitutes a  contested  election.
In the 2004 race, the issue revolved around 11,000 provisional ballots.
Currently, challenger Roy Cooper leads McCrory by at least 7,000 votes, out of
4.6 million cast. Is that close enough to be considered contested?

There are other problems, too. Unlike in 2004, all the state and local elections
boards in North Carolina are run by Republican majorities. McCrory will have a
hard time arguing that he s the victim of massive voter fraud, since fellow
Republicans Donald Trump and Richard Burr won their statewide races by decisive
margins.

And if the General Assembly can intervene in the governor s race, does it really
want to? If the Honorables install McCrory, it s going to leave a bitter taste,
suggesting that democracy is just fine, so long as the poor, deluded voters don
t choose wrong.

Such a vote, moreover, will almost certainly trigger intervention by the federal
courts. North Carolina will be left with egg on its face. We don t need this on
top of the bad publicity generated by HB-2.

(In the presidential race, a movement is afoot for the U.S. Electoral College to
pick Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump).

Incidentally, the first Tar Heel governor elected by direct vote of the people
was none other than Edward B. Dudley of Wilmington.

Back in 1835, North Carolinians decided that having the legislature choose the
governor was a bad idea. It still is.

Legislators should keep their honorable noses out of this mess.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             984 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

Trump narrows list for Secretary of State

BYLINE: NC Vance Merton; The Washington Post; President-elect Donald Trump s
drama-ridden selection process for secretary of state has narrowed to four
finalists, including 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney and former
New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Trump aides said Wednesday. It was the first
time that Trump s transition team has publicly confirmed that Romney and
Giuliani are competing for the highest ranking Cabinet position. Opponents of
Romney have waged a remarkably public fight against him, saying the former
Massachusetts governor should not get the nod because he attacked Trump in harsh
personal terms during the presidential campaign and that Giuliani should be
rewarded for his loyalty during the campaign. Transition team officials would
not name the other two finalists, but other leading candidates include retired
Army Gen. David Petraeus - a former commanding general of the U.S. Central
Command and CIA director - and Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee. A fifth possible candidate is retired Marine Gen.
John F. Kelly, former chief of U.S. Southern Command. Kelly, who clashed with
the Obama administration over women serving in combat and plans to close the
prison at Guantanamo Bay, is also a candidate for homeland security secretary
and possibly other positions, people familiar with the selection process have
said. Kelly met with the president-elect Wednesday at Trump Tower. Trump aides
said there is no set timetable for making a final selection on the State
Department and that the president-elect s decision will likely not be announced
this week. Trump met with Romney Tuesday night for a two-hour dinner at which
the two men were seen laughing and munching on frog legs and other delicacies.
Afterward, Romney emerged and told reporters:  I had a wonderful evening with
President-elect Trump,  That stood in stark contrast to the campaign, during
which Romney had been one of Trump s leading detractors, labeling him a  con
man,  a  fake  and a  phony  who was unprepared for the presidency. Jason
Miller, a senior Trump communications adviser, said Wednesday that Trump also
thought the dinner went very well  and that the two men had  good chemistry.
He added that Trump and Romney  have not spent a significant amount of time
together, so this is still the process of getting to know each other.   The
naming of finalists for the State Department post came as Trump appeared to be
focusing on core economic issues in his emerging Cabinet, while he prepared to
put aside his sprawling businesses. Trump officially announced key members of
his economic team, choosing former banker and Hollywood financier Steven Mnuchin
as treasury secretary and billionaire industrialist Wilbur Ross to run the
Commerce Department. As Ross s deputy, Trump turned to Chicago Cubs co-owner
Todd Rickets, whose family are powerful conservative donors.  This team will be
instrumental in implementing the President-elect s America First economic plan
that will create more than 25 million jobs over the next decade,   Trump s
transition team said in statement. House speaker Paul D. Ryan, who often clashed
with Trump during the campaign but has been strongly supportive of the
president-elect since his victory, praised his choices.  I am excited to get to
work with this strong team to fix our broken tax code, ease the regulatory
burden on American businesses, and grow our economy,   Ryan, R-Wis., said in a
statement. Also uncertain were the specifics of how Trump, a longtime real
estate developer with interests around the globe, planned to step away from
overseeing his business. Trump tweeted Wednesday morning that he would soon
leave the conglomerate.  I will be holding a major news conference in New York
City with my children on December 15 to discuss the fact that I will be leaving
my great business in total in order to fully focus on running the country in
order to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!  Trump wrote on Twitter, which has remained
his favorite communication medium during the transition. The announcement, seen
as a response to increasingly voiced concerns about the potential conflicts of
interest between Trump s public and private roles, marks a turn from his
months-long refusal to distance himself from his private affairs while holding
the nation s highest public office. Trump s comments did little to convince
critics such as Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin, D-Md., who along with 23 colleagues
introduced a resolution Tuesday calling on Trump to follow the precedents set by
past presidents and hold his assets in a form guaranteeing no conflicts, such as
a  blind trust.    I was encouraged to see the President-elect s initial
response but the devil is in the details, which Mr. Trump was short on in his
tweets,   Cardin said.  The fact that his announcement will be done with his
children at his side leaves many questions as to whether he and his lawyers
understand the meaning of a blind trust.   Trump did not say if the new
arrangement would include a full sale of his stake or, as he has offered before,
a ceding of company management to his children, which ethics advisers have said
would not resolve worries that the business could still influence his decisions
in the Oval Office. Presidents are not bound by the strict conflict-of-interest
laws governing most U.S. elected officials. But most modern presidents have
agreed to sell or sequester their assets in a  blind trust,  led by an
independent manager with supreme control, in order to keep past business deals,
investments and relationships from influencing their White House term. Giving
company management to his three eldest children - Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka -
would still leave open the potential for Trump to make presidential decisions
for their benefit. The children have already played a key part in Trump s
governing preparations, serving on the transition team now selecting key
appointees and sitting in on meetings with foreign heads of state. Transition
aides declined to provide details of Trump s plans for his business during
Wednesday s briefing, saying the president-elect will provide them at his Dec.
15 news conference. With Mnuchin, Ross and Ricketts, Trump s Cabinet nominations
reward their loyalty and roles in his campaign. Both Mnuchin and Ross were
financial contributors and advisers, while Ricketts s father financed a
pro-Trump super PAC. Mnuchin, an investor and former Goldman Sachs executive who
joined Trump s campaign in May as finance chairman, has no government
experience. But in his statement announcing Mnuchin s nomination, which is
subject to Senate confirmation, Trump hailed the former private equity fund head
as  a world-class financier, banker and businessman,   who has  played a key
role in developing our plan to build a dynamic, booming economy that will create
millions of jobs.   Ross is an investor known as the  king of bankruptcy  for
buying beaten-down companies with the potential to deliver profits. He helped
shape the Trump campaign s economic agenda, particularly its hard-line stance on
the need to renegotiate or withdraw from free trade agreements. That position
resonated with the working class voters who were instrumental in delivering
Trump s upset victory. Trump said that Ross, whose nomination is also subject to
Senate confirmation,  is a champion of American manufacturing and knows how to
help companies succeed. Most importantly, he is one of the greatest negotiators
I have ever met.   The two expressed confidence in the incoming administration s
ability to boost economic growth as high as 4 percent a year. Crucial to that
projection would be passage of Trump s proposed overhaul of the tax code,
including streamlining individual tax rates into three brackets and reducing the
corporate tax rate to 15 percent. Independent research groups have estimated the
plan could cost as much as $6 trillion over the next decade. However, that
analysis does not include the potential economic benefits the tax cuts could
generate. Trump s new team spread out to give a sales pitch on Wednesday for his
economic vision. In a joint interview with Ross on CNBC s Squawk Box, Mnuchin
said reforming the nation s tax code would be Trump s top priority and promised
significant tax breaks for the middle class but no absolute cut for high-income
households.

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1417 words


President-elect Donald Trump s drama-ridden selection process for secretary of
state has narrowed to four finalists, including 2012 Republican presidential
nominee Mitt Romney and former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Trump aides
said Wednesday. It was the first time that Trump s transition team has publicly
confirmed that Romney and Giuliani are competing for the highest ranking Cabinet
position. Opponents of Romney have waged a remarkably public fight against him,
saying the former Massachusetts governor should not get the nod because he
attacked Trump in harsh personal terms during the presidential campaign and that
Giuliani should be rewarded for his loyalty during the campaign. Transition team
officials would not name the other two finalists, but other leading candidates
include retired Army Gen. David Petraeus - a former commanding general of the
U.S. Central Command and CIA director - and Sen.

Bob Corker, R-Tenn., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. A fifth
possible candidate is retired Marine Gen. John F. Kelly, former chief of U.S.
Southern Command. Kelly, who clashed with the Obama administration over women
serving in combat and plans to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay, is also a
candidate for homeland security secretary and possibly other positions, people
familiar with the selection process have said. Kelly met with the
president-elect Wednesday at Trump Tower. Trump aides said there is no set
timetable for making a final selection on the State Department and that the
president-elect s decision will likely not be announced this week. Trump met
with Romney Tuesday night for a two-hour dinner at which the two men were seen
laughing and munching on frog legs and other delicacies. Afterward, Romney
emerged and told reporters:  I had a wonderful evening with President-elect
Trump,  That stood in stark contrast to the campaign, during which Romney had
been one of Trump s leading detractors, labeling him a  con man,  a  fake  and a
phony  who was unprepared for the presidency. Jason Miller, a senior Trump
communications adviser, said Wednesday that Trump also  thought the dinner went
very well  and that the two men had  good chemistry.   He added that Trump and
Romney  have not spent a significant amount of time together, so this is still
the process of getting to know each other.   The naming of finalists for the
State Department post came as Trump appeared to be focusing on core economic
issues in his emerging Cabinet, while he prepared to put aside his sprawling
businesses. Trump officially announced key members of his economic team,
choosing former banker and Hollywood financier Steven Mnuchin as treasury
secretary and billionaire industrialist Wilbur Ross to run the Commerce
Department. As Ross s deputy, Trump turned to Chicago Cubs co-owner Todd
Rickets, whose family are powerful conservative donors.  This team will be
instrumental in implementing the President-elect s America First economic plan
that will create more than 25 million jobs over the next decade,   Trump s
transition team said in statement. House speaker Paul D. Ryan, who often clashed
with Trump during the campaign but has been strongly supportive of the
president-elect since his victory, praised his choices.  I am excited to get to
work with this strong team to fix our broken tax code, ease the regulatory
burden on American businesses, and grow our economy,   Ryan, R-Wis., said in a
statement. Also uncertain were the specifics of how Trump, a longtime real
estate developer with interests around the globe, planned to step away from
overseeing his business. Trump tweeted Wednesday morning that he would soon
leave the conglomerate.  I will be holding a major news conference in New York
City with my children on December 15 to discuss the fact that I will be leaving
my great business in total in order to fully focus on running the country in
order to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!  Trump wrote on Twitter, which has remained
his favorite communication medium during the transition. The announcement, seen
as a response to increasingly voiced concerns about the potential conflicts of
interest between Trump s public and private roles, marks a turn from his
months-long refusal to distance himself from his private affairs while holding
the nation s highest public office. Trump s comments did little to convince
critics such as Sen. Benjamin L. Cardin, D-Md., who along with 23 colleagues
introduced a resolution Tuesday calling on Trump to follow the precedents set by
past presidents and hold his assets in a form guaranteeing no conflicts, such as
a  blind trust.    I was encouraged to see the President-elect s initial
response but the devil is in the details, which Mr. Trump was short on in his
tweets,   Cardin said.  The fact that his announcement will be done with his
children at his side leaves many questions as to whether he and his lawyers
understand the meaning of a blind trust.   Trump did not say if the new
arrangement would include a full sale of his stake or, as he has offered before,
a ceding of company management to his children, which ethics advisers have said
would not resolve worries that the business could still influence his decisions
in the Oval Office. Presidents are not bound by the strict conflict-of-interest
laws governing most U.S. elected officials. But most modern presidents have
agreed to sell or sequester their assets in a  blind trust,  led by an
independent manager with supreme control, in order to keep past business deals,
investments and relationships from influencing their White House term. Giving
company management to his three eldest children - Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka -
would still leave open the potential for Trump to make presidential decisions
for their benefit. The children have already played a key part in Trump s
governing preparations, serving on the transition team now selecting key
appointees and sitting in on meetings with foreign heads of state. Transition
aides declined to provide details of Trump s plans for his business during
Wednesday s briefing, saying the president-elect will provide them at his Dec.
15 news conference. With Mnuchin, Ross and Ricketts, Trump s Cabinet nominations
reward their loyalty and roles in his campaign. Both Mnuchin and Ross were
financial contributors and advisers, while Ricketts s father financed a
pro-Trump super PAC. Mnuchin, an investor and former Goldman Sachs executive who
joined Trump s campaign in May as finance chairman, has no government
experience. But in his statement announcing Mnuchin s nomination, which is
subject to Senate confirmation, Trump hailed the former private equity fund head
as  a world-class financier, banker and businessman,   who has  played a key
role in developing our plan to build a dynamic, booming economy that will create
millions of jobs.   Ross is an investor known as the  king of bankruptcy  for
buying beaten-down companies with the potential to deliver profits. He helped
shape the Trump campaign s economic agenda, particularly its hard-line stance on
the need to renegotiate or withdraw from free trade agreements. That position
resonated with the working class voters who were instrumental in delivering
Trump s upset victory. Trump said that Ross, whose nomination is also subject to
Senate confirmation,  is a champion of American manufacturing and knows how to
help companies succeed. Most importantly, he is one of the greatest negotiators
I have ever met.   The two expressed confidence in the incoming administration s
ability to boost economic growth as high as 4 percent a year. Crucial to that
projection would be passage of Trump s proposed overhaul of the tax code,
including streamlining individual tax rates into three brackets and reducing the
corporate tax rate to 15 percent. Independent research groups have estimated the
plan could cost as much as $6 trillion over the next decade. However, that
analysis does not include the potential economic benefits the tax cuts could
generate. Trump s new team spread out to give a sales pitch on Wednesday for his
economic vision. In a joint interview with Ross on CNBC s Squawk Box, Mnuchin
said reforming the nation s tax code would be Trump s top priority and promised
significant tax breaks for the middle class but no absolute cut for high-income
households.



Retired Gen. John Kelly arrives at Trump Tower for a meeting with
President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday in New York. EVAN VUCCI/THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             985 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

BYLINE: NC Nunn Scott

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 603 words


I oppose the recount.

There are, to my mind, only two reasons to re-examine ballots in a presidential
campaign, as Green Party candidate Jill Stein has raised money to do. The first
is in the event of error or fraud, but there is no evidence thereof in the 2016
election, as Stein herself has admitted.

The second is in the event the margin of victory is especially slim. And yes, in
the three states where Stein is pushing for a recount   Wisconsin, Michigan and
Pennsylvania   the margins are indeed thin, particularly in Michigan, which
Hillary Clinton lost by just 11,612 votes.

But in a case like that, the recount must begin immediately   and preferably
automatically   to be seen as credible. A recount three weeks after the fact
cannot avoid the appearance of dirty tricks. Indeed, if the results in any of
the states in question were overturned at this late date, Donald Trump s
supporters would suspect malfeasance   and be justified in doing so.

Don t misunderstand: I remain unalterably convinced that the new president is an
awful person and that America made a generations-defining mistake in choosing
him. But that does not give us license to casually undermine the integrity of
the election.

Besides, Trump is doing a fine job of that without Stein s help.

You d think, what with recruiting the political equivalents of Darth Vader and
Victor Von Doom for his Cabinet and presumably ordering a new Oval Office rug
with a giant golden  T  in the center, he d be too busy for such things, but you
d be wrong. On Monday, Trump tweeted,  I won the popular vote if you deduct the
millions of people who voted illegally.

It was hardly the first time he didn t know what the hell he was talking about.
Not only is there zero evidence this supposedly massive fraud happened, but
simple logic says that it could not. To be here illegally is to live off the
grid, to be paid in cash, avoid interactions with police, steer clear of City
Hall. Why would one such person   let alone millions   jeopardize the security
of anonymity to cast a fraudulent vote?

It s an idiotic idea. News organizations dutifully dubbed it  baseless,  too
polite to say that his claim contained enough steer manure to fertilize Central
Park.

And at this point, anyone who ever believed in an ideal called America should be
unnerved.

A democracy is, in many ways, a fragile thing. As Thomas Jefferson wrote, it
depends for its very existence upon the  consent of the governed    meaning not
our support of every action a government takes, but rather, our willingness to
believe in its integrity. It is from this that democratic government derives its
power. Democracy, then, is an act of mutual agreement.

In a nation of 320 million people who share no one ancestry, culture or faith,
it is also connective tissue. The idea that my vote matters no more   or less
than yours is the tie that binds an Inuit in Bethel, Alaska, to a Haitian
refugee in Miami to an Irish Catholic in Boston to a Mexican-American in San
Diego to a Muslim in Kansas City. It is the thing that makes us Americans.

And it s the thing Trump burned down in his scorched earth appeal to bigotry and
resentment. Now, here comes Stein in a desperate bid to deny the electorate its
appalling choice.

Avatars of a demoralized left and a hateful right, they are alike in at least
one respect: their apparent willingness to damage what they purport to love.

So we find ourselves at a no-win crossroads. Trump s victory is a terrible
thing.

Stealing it would be even worse.

Leonard Pitts is a columnist for The Miami Herald. Readers may contact him via
e-mail at lpitts@miamiherald.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             986 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

Elections weirder than the weather

BYLINE: NC Nunn Scott; StarNews Editorial Board

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 510 words


Our elections seem to be a mess nowadays.

Here it is December and we still haven t decided races on the local, state or
national level.

And a three-judge federal court panel is now demanding a special legislative
election in 2017. It said 28 N.C. House and Senate districts were improperly
drawn by the GOP majority.

The New Hanover County Board of Elections may have violated the law by
certifying the 2016 county races prematurely.

The board dismissed   rightly   two challenges by John Christian Anderson, who
wasn t a candidate. Two board members rebuked Anderson for waiting so long to
file protests that seemed frivolous.

Then the board voted 2-1 to certify the vote against the advice of elections
staff and a county attorney. Deputy County Attorney Kemp Burpeau said the board
was supposed to wait five days after dismissing Anderson s protests. But by
Thursday afternoon the board had changed its tune and rescinded Thursday morning
s certification.

Also, two of the losing candidates have requested recounts in the tight race. A
recount upset or a successful appeal by Anderson could force the county to
unseat a commissioner who has already cast votes.

A mess, right?

The county elections board had postponed its recount to see if the State Board
of Elections orders a statewide recount.

That could come about because the governor s race between Republican incumbent
Pat McCrory and Democratic challenger Roy Cooper is still undecided.

A statewide recount appears unlikely now that Cooper s lead appears to have
stretched past the 10,000-vote threshold that would trigger it.

But the state board, voting along party lines, has ordered Durham County to do a
machine recount after 90,000 votes came in late on Election Day. Several
machines couldn t tabulate results so the machines  paper rolls had to be
counted by hand. That s why machines have paper rolls.

This after McCrory filed numerous challenges on the county level, most over a
handful of votes. They were rejected by three-person county boards that, by law,
have two representatives from the governor s party.

So we ll wait while Durham County counts again.

Meanwhile, Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein, who garnered about 1
percent of the vote, is raising millions to finance demanding recounts or audits
in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.

The remnants of Hillary Clinton s unsuccessful campaign   she won the popular
vote by more than 2 million votes but lost decisively in the Electoral College
have joined the effort.

The costly effort seems an exercise in futility. The margin in Pennsylvania was
more than 68,000 votes, and in all three states the margins are far wider than
has ever been overturned by previous recounts.

This is what happens in a 50/50 electorate. Races with slim margins are prone to
challenges.

Durham s machine woes notwithstanding, the 100 county elections boards in North
Carolina by and large conducted clean elections, responding well to late
court-mandated rule changes.

At least it seemed that way until the New Hanover board s rush to certify.

Stay tuned.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             987 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

BYLINE: NC Nunn Scott

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 562 words


20 WORDS (ABOUT). ANY TOPIC. NO NAME.

n Catherine McCall s Cape Fear Voices essay on Monday mentioned  honesty and
truth,  suggesting that was the platform the Clinton/Kaine campaign represented.
It amazes me how something can be interpreted so many different ways.

n In answer to Catherine McCall s op-ed claiming Republicans  dismiss the values
of honesty and truth    are you kidding me? And you voted for Hillary?

n Why do police engage in chases for relatively minor offenses? Recent
Pittsburgh chase for probation violation resulted in three innocent lives lost.

n Son mistakes father for deer and kills him on Thanksgiving. I m no hunter, but
thought hunters were to wear bright orange, attend safety classes and don t
shoot until you see exactly what you re shooting at!

n Please ask a Native American if the rest of us are descendants of  legal
immigrants?

n Canadian Mounties disappointed   no show on big-mouth celebrities.

n Dear Gentle Editors: If you admit the Buzz has a 200+ backlog, why not
allocate more space to something so popular?

(Editor s note: A fair point. We think the daily space it gets is about right.
Would add more opinion pages but newsprint isn t cheap. The Eds).

n Looks like Trump is busy juggling time for his businesses and preparing for
the highest office in the land. Is this the change his voters were looking for?

n Leonard Pitts is my favorite columnist. I will read him online even if you don
t publish in this paper. He s tops!

(Editor s note: The StarNews will continue to publish Leonard Pitts. As we do
with all our regular columnists, we will pick and choose which ones to use. Some
of Pitts  columns, for example, focus solely on the Miami area).

n Hillary Clinton is joining Jill Stein to contest the presidential election in
three states. She will either be humiliated or she will start our second civil
war.

n Trump won 30 states. Clinton s entire popular vote majority came from
California. Eliminate Electoral College and California elects president every
four years.

n Just when we thought things couldn t get any worse, you tell us the Right
Honorables could anoint McCrory governor!

n How about this holiday season we worry about our own hungry, homeless, and
helpless? Charity truly should begin at home.

n If the $20 trillion in U.S. debt were converted into seconds, it would equal
684,180 years. Continue to ignore it?

n So happy to find Garrison Keillor on the op-ed page!

n To those seeking majority rule, imagine what the outcome would be if N.C. put
HB2 to a referendum, or gay marriage for that matter.

n The beliefs and thoughts shared by Leonard Pitts are exactly why Hillary lost.

n Purpose of electoral college is so that NY, CA and Illinois do not select
president. I suggest that each state and territory gets one vote and that will
be assigned to whoever wins the majority in that state. Sounds fair.

n Sick of all the Hamilton glorification. Broadway play is fictitious spin on
the life of a far from perfect man who cheated in the Burr duel.

n Sunday headline:  Cubans worry what s next . Well, guess what? So do millions
of Americans ... and Trump is still living!

n To Buzzer who wants to help transport my children downtown to achieve
diversity   no thanks. They also ride the bus, all three of them   to their
neighborhood schools.

n I m so sad over the happenings of this November, I can t even read my beloved
comics.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             988 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

Region reflects political divide;
divide

BYLINE: NC Buckland Tim; StarNews Staff

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1585 words


SOUTHEASTERN N.C.   Chip Carroll has lived in a rural setting his entire life.

I guess that s been 62 years,  the Brunswick County resident said in the small
office that serves as the hub for his sand mining operation in Northwest,
population 735.

Meanwhile, Evelyn Bryant is as urban as can be. She s grown up in and continues
to live and work in downtown Wilmington, saying she enjoys being within walking
distance of work and her daughter s school.

Bryant called the southern end of Eighth Street the city s  south side  and now
lives on Campbell Street. The 49-year-old legal assistant has no plans to move,
saying she can t stand the idea of dealing with suburban sprawl or having to
drive too far for work.

And while they mostly reflected voting patterns of the typical urban and rural
divide, each said they should not be typecast in their roles.

Red and blue

The swath of Republican red and splotches of

See divide,  A10

Democratic blue over election maps shows that the three-county region has as
much of an urban-rural divide as anywhere else.

It s not a new thing,  said Aaron King, professor of political science at the
University of North Carolina Wilmington.  It s been going on for some time.

Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton claimed all of downtown
Wilmington, but managed to win just a handful of less-populated areas.

Bryant said she voted mostly Democrat, following a trend in the urban areas of
Wilmington.

I think the candidates I ve always been acquainted with on the Democratic side
... I ve been able to relate to them,  she said.

That does not mean Democrats always have her vote. She said she has voted for
Republicans.

I don t do the Republican or Democrat thing,  Bryant said.

Meanwhile, President-elect Donald Trump, a Republican, claimed nearly every
suburban and rural area of the region   including all but one precinct in
Brunswick County.

But Carroll said any attempts to pigeonhole him based on his rural setting would
be unfounded.

A lot of it is just people trying to put people in a certain class,  he said.  I
vote for the person I think will do the best job. I don t vote straight-ticket
Democrat or Republican.

And, he said, among farmers,  I don t know many of them who vote straight
ticket.

Statewide, Trump won 76 of the state s 100 counties, with Clinton claiming the
state s seven most populous counties, according to the N.C. State Board of
Elections.

New Hanover County, after Gaston, was the second-most populous county Trump won
in the state.

I think a number of hardworking men and women in the state and country voted for
Donald Trump because he represented a fresh face and a compelling case,  said
U.S. Rep. David Rouzer, R-N.C., who supported Trump s campaign.  I think the
vote for Trump was largely symbolic of the deep desire of millions of Americans
who wanted their country back.

The rural effect

Part of the divide, King said, is that rural voters are less likely to interact
directly with their local, state and federal governments, whereas people in
urban centers see government in action more often, through police, courts, fire
departments, libraries, community centers and a host of other services.

People in rural areas are more skeptical of government, not only the role of
government but whether their government cares about them,  he said. People who
felt a  rural resentment increasingly feel like politicians ... don t understand
what it s like for them.

And Trump, who promised to change Washington s ways, was able to tap into that
skepticism and resentment of the government better than Clinton, who served as
first lady, a U.S. senator and as U.S. secretary of state.

A lot of Trump supporters liked him because he is an outsider,  King said.

Carroll said he imagines that Trump was able to do well in rural areas because
of regulations that have hurt agriculture, specifically an Environmental
Protection Agency rule about surface waters. The regulation has been criticized
as an overreach by the EPA that restricts the ability of farmers to use their
land if there is standing water   including from a storm   on the land for an
extended period of time.

It s a devastating law for agriculture,  said Carroll, the president of the
Brunswick County Farm Bureau.  People feel like Trump might overturn it.

King said the biggest gain Trump and Republicans got was from whites without
college degrees. Trump s margin with that group was 14 percent higher than that
of 2012 Republican candidate Mitt Romney. A large part of rural America is
composed of these voters, he said.

I think that s a group that felt the Democratic Party was not addressing them,
King said.  This urban-rural divide could be seen in 2008 and 2012, but now we
have an even bigger divide because of that population. It s very clear where
those votes are coming from.

Not a total GOP victory

One race that saw a major Democratic victory was the apparent election win of
N.C. Attorney General Roy Cooper to unseat incumbent Republican Gov. Pat
McCrory.

Obviously, the voters of North Carolina viewed that race differently,  Rouzer
said.

Rouzer said McCrory was in the difficult position of trying to tout the state s
successes while Trump was simultaneously telling voters that the country was in
dire straits.

The messages were so stark that, during an appearance in Winston-Salem, Trump
said  jobs around here are scarce  and that unemployment figures are not
accurate and shouldn t be trusted. This was moments after McCrory told the crowd
that job growth in the state was good and unemployment was down.

Rouzer said McCrory was left with the difficult position of trying to convince
voters that things were good in North Carolina and would only get better if
Trump and McCrory were both elected to office.

You had Trump with one message ... that ran contrary to the message that Pat was
trying to articulate,  Rouzer said.  I think both candidates were right in what
they were saying, but that s a hard message (for McCrory) to convey because it s
complicated.

And McCrory may have lost support from the agriculture community, as Carroll
said he was an enthusiastic Cooper supporter, partly because Cooper grew up in
rural Nash County. McCrory is from Charlotte and served as that city s mayor
before being elected governor.

I was a hard Cooper guy,  he said.  I feel like he ll be better for eastern
North Carolina.

Delivering service

Those tasked with delivering services   either as elected officials or
government employees   said they never look at election results when asked to
provide a service.

Avril Pinder, New Hanover County s deputy county manager, said residents in
rural areas north of Interstate 140 can expect the same response as someone
living in Wilmington s Landfall neighborhood.

Do we do different services based on your zip code? No,  she said.  The answer
is we re going to be consistent in the delivery of government service.

Rouzer won nearly every precinct in his district over Democrat J. Wesley
Casteen, who ran a shoestring campaign on limited funds. But Casteen took nearly
all of downtown Wilmington from the Republican incumbent. No matter, Rouzer
said. A constituent issue coming from 10th Street in Wilmington is given the
same attention as one in rural Brunswick County.

The campaign is the campaign. But once you re in office, it s your job to
represent everybody,  he said.  I don t look at how the region votes, whether
they voted for me or not.

Hamilton, who lost all but one precinct in Brunswick County to her opponent,
Republican Gerald Benton, agreed to an extent.

All constituent service ... is treated equally,  she said.  We don t even check
(a constituent s) political party. It would never be weighted that way.

But, she said, some overarching decisions can have impacts, intentional or not,
that adversely impact one segment. An example she gave was the state s decision
to move to an apolitical formula for road construction funding based on a point
system using traffic counts and other objective factors. While it removed
politics from decision-making, its reliance on traffic counts could leave rural
areas with lesser-maintained roads.

Where it can get sticky is when you have policy decisions that benefit rural
areas over urban areas or vice versa,  she said.

Served by government

Carroll said he believes local and state officials are responsive to farmers
needs once elections are over.

We all have to work with whoever gets elected,  he said.

Bryant, though, said she doesn t believe government is as responsive to her
community. An example she gave of government failing to reach her entire
community included downtown community centers that  are mostly a gym  and
museums that feature little to no African-American culture.

Government puts you in a box and makes you feel like you can only do this ...
and there s no other way,  Bryant said.

So she said she has gotten involved, volunteering on community boards to change
things and look out for those without means to speak up for themselves.

We all have something we can offer,  Bryant said.

Reporter Tim Buckland can be reached at 910-343-2217 or
Tim.Buckland@StarNewsOnline.com

Continued from A1



Chip Carroll at his Saw Mill Sand Mine in Northwest. TIM BUCKLAND/STARNEWS



Evelyn Bryant of Wilmington works in her office in downtown. She has lived and
worked in downtown for most of her life. TIM BUCKLAND/STARNEWS



Evelyn Bryant of Wilmington at her office in downtown Wilmington. She has lived
and worked in downtown for most of her life. TIM BUCKLAND/STARNEWS

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             989 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                           December 3, 2016 Saturday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

BYLINE: NC Nunn Scott

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 583 words


College lessons

There have been four presidential elections in which the winner received fewer
votes than the loser: John Quincy Adams (1824), Benjamin Harrison (1888), George
W. Bush (2000) and Donald J. Trump (2016). The system is unfair and
anachronistic and needs to be replaced.

It is unfair because the votes of citizens of small states are worth more than
the votes of citizens in the larger states. For example, Wyoming has a
population of about 600,000 and it has three electoral votes -- 200,000 people
per electoral vote. California has a population of about 38 million and has 55
electoral votes -- about 700,000 people per electoral vote. The weight of a
Wyoming voter, therefore, is three times more than that of a California voter.

There are 10 states with a population of one million or less in the same
category of excessive electoral influence. The Electoral College was created
when the USA consisted of 13 colonies of about equal population and people
needed to own property in order to vote.

The Electoral College has outlived its usefulness and ought to be replaced with
a straight popular vote in which each vote has the same weight.

Andy Logothetis

Wilmington

Purpose of EC

I think it s time that someone remind those Republicans who are doing cartwheels
in the Buzz and Letters to the Editor that their razor-thin margin of victory
was only possible because of the Electoral College, not because the majority of
the people voted for Donald Trump.

The College, a vestigial provision of the Constitution, was created by the
founders because they felt that the job of electing a president was too
important to be left to the House of Representatives or the people, not to keep
the rich and powerful states from running roughshod over the smaller states.

A quote from my World Book encyclopedia states that  The Fathers of the
Constitution hoped this procedure would promote calm deliberations and selection
of the best-qualified man.

In any event, it is what it is, and there is minimal chance of changing it. I
mention it only to remind the Republicans that they believe in a strict
interpretation of the Constitution.

The Democrats will have to live with it and wait and see what will happen four
years from now when the factory jobs in Wisconsin and Michigan do not come back
and when the miners in Pennsylvania realize that coal is not the wave of the
future and they are not able to buy their medical insurance thru the Affordable
Care Act and when those terrified of the people mowing their lawns find out that
the new definition of Big Beautiful Wall really means small fence and they are
going to pay for it.

Then maybe they will start to wonder why they voted for a man for president that
most of them wouldn t invite to dinner in their home.

John Sabella

Supply

Don t ignore App

I think it s time your sports department started providing a bit more coverage
of Appalachian State football. A recent article in your paper from the
Fayetteville Observer compared the Football Bowl Subdivision teams in North
Carolina and ASU came out head of the class.

But you could never tell it by the coverage during the season from your paper.
UNC, NC State, Duke, and of course ECU always get the coverage, with Appalachian
s games normally relegated to the list of national scores. Rarely is there ever
an actual story printed about the Mountaineers. ...

I think it s time a little more respect should be shown to one of the most
consistent football programs in this state.

Michael Thompson

Burgaw

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             990 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

BYLINE: NC Nunn Scott

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 774 words


Just six weeks ago, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., penned an op-ed for The
Washington Post dismissing any concerns about voter fraud and election
insecurity as the whining of a soon-to-be-defeated Donald Trump.

What a difference a month makes.

Now, liberal groups, having forced a recount in Wisconsin, are rallying behind
defeated Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein s efforts to expand the
effort to Michigan and Pennsylvania, which, like Wisconsin, helped hand the
White House to President-elect Trump. Their theory: the election may have been
rigged by Russian hackers or some other troublemakers.

It s remarkable   and welcome   that the political left has finally awoken to
the reality that American elections are vulnerable to acts of fraud.
Conservatives have been saying so for years. Yet this latest move   which lacks
any supporting evidence   seems more a cynical political ploy with the
undertones of a Nigerian scam than an actual awakening to the reality of voter
fraud.

After all, consider the wildly different reactions from many on the left to
dueling claims of voter fraud by Stein and president-elect Trump. Stein has been
embraced as a crusader for, in her words, promoting a  voting system we can
trust.  But the president-elect s suggestion that he was robbed of a popular
vote victory by millions of illegally voting non-citizens was met with scorn.
Many of the same outlets that had lent weight to Stein s claims of Russian
hacking once again insisted that voter fraud simply does not exist.

There is little direct evidence that illegal ballots were cast in numbers
significant enough to deny the president-elect a lead in the popular vote. But
to deny even the possibility that this type of fraud occurs is laughable because
it is demonstrably false.

Over the last two years, scholars at The Heritage Foundation have gathered the
evidence that many insist does not exist: proof that old-fashioned voter fraud
is real. Our voter fraud database now details nearly 450 confirmed examples
(encompassing 721 actual criminal convictions), including in-person fraud,
absentee ballot fraud, duplicate voting, illegal felon voting and, yes, even
non-citizen voting.

The tales vary. In Alabama, Olivia Lee Reynolds conspired to ensure that her
boyfriend, Dothan City Commissioner Amos Newsome, won his 2013 campaign.
Reynolds filled out voters  absentee ballots for them, depriving them of their
chance to vote for another candidate. Newsome won 96 percent of the absentee
vote and carried the election by a scant 14 votes, though he lost the in-person
vote. Reynolds was convicted of 24 counts of voter fraud.

In Ohio, a poll worker named Melowese Richardson voted twice in the 2012
election. In three other elections, Richardson voted in the names of others,
including her comatose sister. She was convicted and sentenced to serve five
years in prison.

Rogelio Mejorada-Lopez, a Mexican citizen, successfully registered and voted
illegally in three elections in Alaska. He was charged with three counts of
unlawfully voting as a non-citizen, and pleaded guilty.

These cases are just a small sampling from the Heritage database, which is
itself the tip of the proverbial iceberg. Most states lack the procedural tools
needed to detect voter fraud, either before or after it occurs. Few of our
nation s overworked prosecutors devote the resources needed to prosecute these
cases, especially after elections are over. While easy to commit, most voter
fraud simply goes undetected and, therefore, unpunished.

While we cannot with any certainty quantify the scale and scope of election
fraud, evidence suggests that it has the potential to be significant. According
to a 2012 Pew study, one out of every eight voter registrations is inaccurate or
out of date, and 2.8 million people are registered to vote in more than one
state.

With these facts in mind, there are many wiser avenues, besides politically
motivated recounts, into which Americans should channel their election-integrity
energies. Pushing for voter identification laws, for states to routinely audit
their voter rolls and for officials to aggressively prosecute fraudsters would
all help to deter and prevent election fraud. And, because concerns about
hacking are not unwarranted, the country should avoid any proposals to
transition to online voting.

Elections are the fundamental, foundational core of our democracy. That
foundation is eroded every time a fraudulent ballot is cast. The problem is
serious. It deserves serious solutions, not political stunts.

Jason Snead is a policy analyst in the Meese Center for Legal and Judicial
Studies at The Heritage Foundation.



LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: jason Snead

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             991 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            December 4, 2016 Sunday
                             NC Wilmington Edition

BYLINE: NC Whitaker Cheryl

SECTION: 1,A; GateHouse Media GM9; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 453 words


U.S. HOUSE

Medical Research, Drug Approvals: The House on Nov. 30 passed, 392-26, a bill to
expand the National Institutes of Health budget for biomedical research, speed
Food and Drug Administration approvals of new drugs, combat opioid addiction and
upgrade mental-health programs. A yes vote was to send HR 34 to the Senate,
where prompt approval was expected.

Voting yes: David Rouzer

Not voting: Walter Jones

Donald Trump s Tax Returns: Voting 235-180, the House on Dec. 1 nixed a
procedural bid by Democrats to advance a requirement that presidential
candidates disclose to voters their personal tax returns for the three preceding
years. It was noted in debate that in the campaign just ended, Republican Donald
Trump refused to disclose his returns and Democratic hopeful Bernie Sanders
released only a summary of one year s return. A yes vote was to block the
Democrats  parliamentary tactic. (H Res 937)

Voting yes: Rouzer

Not voting: Jones

2017 Intelligence Budget: Voting 390-30, the House on Nov. 30 adopted the
conference report on a fiscal 2017 budget for the 16 U.S. military and civilian
intelligence agencies. Although the figure is classified, it is thought to be
more than $80 billion. A yes vote was to pass HR 6393.

Voting yes: Rouzer

Not voting: Jones

Weakened Rules for Mega Banks: The House on Dec. 1 voted, 254-161, to weaken
rules in the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that subject the largest U.S. financial
institutions to a higher level of oversight and fiscal stability. A yes vote was
to pass HR 6392, which would exempt certain mega banks from extra layers of
federal regulation that were put in place after the 2008 global financial
collapse.

Voting yes: Rouzer

Not voting: Jones

$611 Billion for U.S. Military: The House on Dec. 2 approved, 375-34, the
conference report on a $611 billion military budget for fiscal 2017. A yes vote
was to pass S 2943, which would authorize $67.8 billion for combat actions
overseas and raise pay for those in uniform by 2.1 percent.

Voting yes: Rouzer

Not voting: Jones

Fetal-Tissue Research: The House on Dec. 1 voted, 234-181, to add $800,000 to
the budget of a special House committee now investigating any nefarious links
between legal abortions and fetal-tissue research. A yes vote was to increase
spending for the Select Investigative Panel on Infant Lives.

Voting yes: Rouzer

Not voting: Jones

U.S. SENATE

Sanctions on Iran: The Senate on Dec. 1 voted, 99-0, to extend for 10 years the
legal foundation for U.S. economic sanctions on Iran. Now before President
Obama, the bill (HR 6297) also renews sanctions powers the U.S. needs to enforce
Iran s agreement to dismantle its nuclear-arms program. A yes vote was to pass
the bill.

Voting yes: Richard Burr, R; Thom Tillis, R



LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             992 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Bob Morehouse: Encourage local action like the muni

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 288 words


Following the ugliest presidential election campaign in modern history, there
are many losers. Civility tops the list. And truth. But perhaps the biggest
loser of all was the Earth. We don't know the future, but one thing is clear:
action around climate change has to happen at the local, grass-roots level.

Many people ask, "As an individual, what can I possibly do to make a difference
for climate change?" And my answer is invariably the same: The single most
effective thing we can do is encourage our civic leaders to municipalize our
electric utility. This will enable local control, increase innovation and
distributed supply, and provide a rapid pathway to renewable fossil-free
electricity.

 Building on a decade's work from a broad consensus of the community, a cleaner
energy future is in sight. A legitimate separation plan from Xcel is before the
Public Utilities Commission. The economics look promising. What is needed now is
the political will to follow through.

 Make no mistake, well-meaning but powerful corporate, libertarian, and
garden-variety anti-government forces are hoping to derail the municipalization
effort. Their tactic is to force a "settlement" with Xcel, which might inch us
closer to our renewable goals, but will inevitably leave out local control and
the vital innovation that could boost our local energy economy.

 If you care about climate change, now's the time to speak up. Tell the council
to stay the course ( council@bouldercolorado.gov) and let them know you have
their backs. Tell businesses to get involved in bringing clean energy to
Boulder. Our national leaders may put climate change on the back burner. Let's
prove that local action can make a difference.

 Bob Morehouse

 Boulder

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             993 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Sally Bell: Abolish the Electoral College

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 273 words


Now the criticisms begin of how Hillary Clinton ran her race. But Hillary has
nothing to regret and nothing that she needed to change in how she conducted her
campaign. Because she clearly won the popular vote, by 2 million votes in the
latest count. And just as clearly, Trump lost.

If it were not for the antiquated Electoral College, she would be
president-elect, and the discussions now would be about how effective her
campaign was, and how voters repudiated Trump. As it is, the votes of 2 million
Americans have been discounted. That is a travesty and verges on a tragedy.

 But even saying that, I don't support the move for the Electoral College
members to "vote their consciences" and overturn the election outcome. If that
proved successful, the angry storm we have heard from Hillary supporters would
seem like a gentle wind compared with the hurricane from Trump's outraged
supporters, and there is no possible way she could govern effectively in the
aftermath. It would also be the precedent every electoral loser in a close
campaign from now on would seize upon to disrupt the outcome.

 What we need is a constitutional amendment to repeal the Electoral College so
that every presidential election is won by the person with the most votes, just
as in every other election in this country. I urge the protesters and
"conscience" people to turn their energies in that direction so that the clear
will of the people cannot be legally denied again.

 For now, in the words of John McCain after he (legitimately) lost to Obama,
"elections have consequences," and I hope the nation is strong enough to survive
them.

 Sally Bell

 Boulder

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             994 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Richard A. Radcliffe: Keep the pressure on

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 300 words


Last week, Fox News' Sean Hannity spoke out against those exercising their
constitutional right to protest Donald Trump's impending presidency, telling
them to "grow up" and that they need to "get over themselves." Authors of
several letters to the Daily Camera have expressed similar opinions and have
pointed out that none of these types of protests took place when President Obama
was first elected. Perhaps those opposed to Obama felt their voices would go
unheeded -- an unfortunate miscalculation of the importance of peaceful dissent
-- though maybe they just didn't care or were simply complacent.

But let's be clear: there's a very good reason why so many people are speaking
out so soon against President-elect Trump. He has been the most divisive
presidential candidate, and now president-elect, in at least the last 60 years,
making statements and promises that have many minority groups and one majority
group (women) truly fearing for their standing and well-being as American
citizens, not to mention his complete lack of decency as a private citizen. In
the words of Thomas L. Friedman, "We can never be great as a country with a
president with the warped values of Donald Trump."

 The ultimate irony is that it is Republicans -- Trump's very own party -- who
fancy themselves the chief defenders of the Constitution, yet it is these same
people who feel compelled to criticize citizens who are actually practicing its
most sacred of principles, one that our president-elect would seem  happy to
dispense with. The protestors need to keep the pressure on until he absolutely
proves that he is not the repulsive man that he himself has defined over the
last 50 years, often with disdain for many of those he now represents, including
some who even voted for him.

 Richard A. Radcliffe

 Erie

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             995 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Editorial: Snapshots from the nation's press

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 678 words


Trump and conservatives


Donald Trump is notable among recent Republican presidential nominees in his
talent for alienating conservatives. Those who disowned him during the campaign
include three former chairmen of the Republican National Committee, House
members Adam Kinzinger of Illinois and Justin Amash of Michigan, and
commentators George Will, Charles Krauthammer and William Kristol.



 It's safe to say that four years ago, none of them could have imagined refusing
to vote for the 2016 GOP presidential nominee. Trump violated their sense of
what the Republican Party represents, and they and many other people on the
right couldn't accept him at the top of the ticket.

 But he won, and he will enter the White House with the Republican Party
controlling both houses of Congress. The question is how closely he and
congressional Republicans will be aligned. If Trump adopts their agenda, it will
be a happy and generally positive partnership. But if he goes his own way, they
will have to decide whether to go with him.

 Power offers opportunities, but also temptations. Trump will want to define the
Republican agenda according to his own impulses, which are neither consistent
nor predictable.

 The GOP has always been the party of conservatism, but it and its presidents
have not always upheld conservative principles. Over the next four years,
conservatives are likely to have many occasions when they can support President
Trump because he is pursuing conservative policies. But they need to be prepared
to show they won't sacrifice principles to political convenience.

 Much of what he has advocated in the campaign fits well with the goals of
limited government, judicial restraint, free markets and strong national
defense. Conservatives also should find plenty in common with Trump when it
comes to reforming the tax code, making judicial appointments in the mold of
Antonin Scalia, replacing Obamacare, eliminating onerous regulations and getting
our allies to spend more on their military forces.

 But he exhibits some tendencies that are not conservative at all. Among them:
His suspicion of free trade, his faith that tough enforcement can overcome the
failures of an irrational immigration system, his taste for expansive
presidential power and his free-spending fiscal proposals.

 Will Republicans in Congress and conservatives elsewhere have the backbone to
resist him on issues like these?

 --Chicago Tribune

 Educate our prisoners



 A new study highlights U.S. prisoners' lack of education, and the secretary of
education has taken the opportunity to issue a "Dear Colleague" letter arguing
for educating them. It's a good idea.

 According to the study from the U.S. Program for the International Assessment
of Adult Competencies, 29 percent of inmates fell below a fairly simple level of
literacy. That level, set out by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, required an individual to perform tasks such as find the "contact
us" link on a website if asked to locate the organization's phone number.

 Education Secretary John King Jr. points out that most inmates will return to
society. He says that once they're released, inmates who are educated in prison
are 58 percent more likely to find a job and 43 percent less likely to return to
crime than those who are not.

 Inmates are interested. Among those in the study, 70 percent said they'd like
to take a class or program. A quarter of those who wanted to enroll were on
waiting lists to do so. Meanwhile, just 21 percent of inmates in the study were
working on a degree or certificate.

 The report does not make clear why all the inmates who want more education
aren't pursuing degrees or certificates. One reason, however, is clear from the
waiting lists: There aren't enough opportunities available, or the opportunities
available don't meet the inmates' needs. So more seats should be opened in
prison educational programs.

 --Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

Will conservatives who opposed Donald Trump during the Republican primaries
stand up to him when his policies diverge from theirs?

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Will conservatives who opposed Donald Trump during the Republican
primaries stand up to him when his policies diverge from theirs?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             996 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

The 'rigged' election

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 880 words


Americans are accustomed to accepting the outcome of even the closest and
hardest-fought presidential elections -- even those, such as the 2000 race that
put George W. Bush in the White House, in which the winner of the electoral vote
didn't prevail in the popular vote.

Yet three weeks after the final ballots were cast in the 2016 election, the
notion that the contest was "rigged" or otherwise lacking in legitimacy is
alarmingly widespread. A YouGov poll conducted from Nov. 11-14 found that 22
percent of respondents thought the election was rigged. Among Democrats the
number was 42 percent.

 So pronounced is the disquiet that some usually serious commentators are
spinning scenarios about reversing Donald J. Trump's victory through recounts or
a revolt by members of the Electoral College. That seems highly unlikely. Even
the Clinton campaign noted that it "had not uncovered any actionable evidence of
hacking or outside attempts to alter the voting technology." As for the
Electoral College, there is no indication that a substantial number of electors
will rebel and support Clinton.

 Nevertheless, the unease is real. And whatever one thinks of the outcome of the
election -- and this page endorsed Hillary Clinton and repeatedly described
Trump as unfit -- a perception that the election was unfair is corrosive.

 To some extent, the popularity of the "rigged" theory reflects widespread
disaffection with Trump, whose often offensive campaign rhetoric has inspired
protests of "Not My President." But it also feeds on real and perceived
interference with the election -- by Russian hackers, by the director of the FBI
and by Republican officials who made it harder for Democratic-leaning citizens
to vote -- and on fear-mongering about imaginary voter fraud.

 Ironically, the chief culprit in propagating the myth of that sort of "rigging"
is Trump himself. During the campaign he sowed doubt about the integrity of the
election process, and even after his victory he has been peddling utterly
unsubstantiated claims about "millions" of illegally cast votes (in an effort to
explain away his second-place finish in the popular vote). On Sunday the
president-elect tweeted: "Serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and
California -- so why isn't the media reporting on this? Serious bias -- big
problem!" The actual big problem, as California secretary of state Alex Padilla
noted, was that Trump's allegations were unsubstantiated and absurd.

 That's not to say that there aren't real issues and problems contributing to
public disaffection that need to be acknowledged and addressed. The Electoral
College, for instance, is an anti-democratic anachronism that should be
abolished through a constitutional amendment. But its existence isn't proof that
the election was "rigged"; if Clinton had won an electoral-vote majority and
finished second in the popular vote, her supporters would happily have
congratulated her.

 The hacking of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta's emails and those of the
Democratic National Committee -- by Russian state actors, according to some U.S.
intelligence officials -- suggests that a foreign government might have utilized
technology to embarrass one candidate in a U.S. election and boost the candidate
it preferred. That sort of interference is outrageous and ought to concern
American officials regardless of their party.

 While it's impossible to prove that it cost Clinton the election, FBI Director
James Comey's announcement on Oct. 28 that he was reopening the investigation
into her use as secretary of state of a private email server -- and his
follow-up two days before the election reaffirming he would not seek charges
against her -- revived an issue that the Democratic candidate thought she had
put behind her.

 Comey's action violated the fundamental principle that the Justice Department
doesn't take unnecessary action close to Election Day that might affect the
outcome. In the future, he -- or his successors -- must refrain from such
intervention in the political process.

 Finally, there is at least some evidence that certain Republican legislatures
made it harder for Democratic-leaning voters to cast their ballots and might
have cost Clinton votes. The top election official in Milwaukee, for instance,
said that a Wisconsin law requiring photo ID for voters probably contributed to
declines in turnout in poor areas of that city.

 Laws and policies that depress the vote are objectionable and ought to be
reversed. But they aren't proof that the election was "rigged" in the sense that
votes were fixed or fraudulent or intentionally tampered with. The distinction
matters -- even if the election has produced a president who has trouble making
distinctions.

 --Los Angeles Times

In this Nov. 8 file photo, people vote at a polling place set up at the Kenter
Canyon Elementary School in Los Angeles. Tweets alone don't make it true. Donald
Trump won the presidency last month even as he lost the popular vote to Democrat
Hillary Clinton, according to The Associated Press's vote-counting operation and
election experts. Trump nonetheless tweeted on Nov. 26 that he won the popular
vote. and alleged there was "serious voter fraud" in California, New Hampshire
and Virginia. There's no evidence to back up those claims.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In this Nov. 8 file photo, people vote at a polling place set up at the
Kenter Canyon Elementary School in Los Angeles. Tweets alone don't make it true.
Donald Trump won the presidency last month even as he lost the popular vote to
Democrat Hillary Clinton, according to The Associated Press's vote-counting
operation and election experts. Trump nonetheless tweeted on Nov. 26 that he won
the popular vote. and alleged there was "serious voter fraud" in California, New
Hampshire and Virginia. There's no evidence to back up those claims.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             997 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Editorial: Recount campaign could poison democratic process

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 614 words


The tweeter-in-chief was busy last  weekend, ranting over a move by Jill Stein,
Green Party candidate for president, to challenge the votes in Michigan,
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania -- states where Donald Trump defeated Hillary Clinton
by narrow margins.

Trump tweeted that Stein's actions were a "scam" and that he not only won the
electoral vote, but would have won the popular vote on Nov. 8 were it not for
millions of "illegal" votes cast.

 He offered no proof because there is none. Clinton leads her Republican
opponent by more than 2 million votes nationwide. There is no evidence that
there were many illegal votes, let alone several million.

 Trump has complained long and loud about vote fraud and "rigged elections." But
that was before he won the presidency. If he were a normal politician, it would
seem odd that he would claim to win the popular vote when there is hard evidence
he did not. But, then, the president-elect is not a normal politician. Not a
normal man, for that matter.

 Trump is going with the flow of his party, though. Republicans have made claims
of voter fraud part of their brand. (The rule of thumb is: If the Republican
candidate wins, the system works fine; if a Democrat wins, it must be because of
fraud.)

 What's surprising is to see that Stein -- with an assist from the Clinton camp
-- has picked up that cudgel to cast doubt on the validity of the totals in
Michigan, where Trump won by 10,704 votes; Wisconsin, where his margin was
22,177 votes; and Pennsylvania, which Trump won by 71,294 votes.

 In Pennsylvania, she has gone to court asking it to force a recount of votes in
the state because of the possibility of fraud. Her problem is: There are no
allegations of fraud. She has no examples of fraudulent voting in the state.
What she has is a paper by a computer science professor who has written that
voting systems are vulnerable to attacks by hackers. (The same professor has
written that there is no evidence that hacking occurred in this election.)

 So, Stein has no evidence of fraud, by hacking or other means, but she feels it
is imperative to conduct official (and very expensive recounts) to answer doubts
she has raised about the integrity of voting system.

 For the record, Stein has said she does not believe a recount would result in a
change in the outcomes in the three states. Nor would it help her candidacy. She
got 1 percent of the popular vote nationwide on Nov. 8. She got 49,312 votes out
of 6 million cast in Pennsylvania.

 We don't know whether to laugh or cry over Stein's and Trump's allegations.
Absent any credible evidence to the contrary, losing an election is not proof
that your opponent engaged in fraud. It means he got more votes. Losing a close
election is not proof of fraud or vote tampering. It means the election was
close. The history books are filled with examples of elections in which a
candidate won by one vote, or a dozen. There have even been ties.

 Casting doubts on the results also casts doubt on the integrity of thousands of
voting officials -- Republicans and Democrats -- who work hard to make sure the
voting system functions honestly and well, often with bare-bones budgets.

 As a nation, we cannot embrace the notion that all elections are rigged and
infested with fraud, that magical and mysterious forces are fixing the outcome
in advance. Such poisonous beliefs could be fatal to the notion of democracy.

 --Philadelphia Daily News

In this Sept. 21 file photo, Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein
delivers remarks at Wilkes University in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Stein has formed an
organization to try to force recounts of the election results in Wisconsin,
Michigan and Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In this Sept. 21 file photo, Green Party presidential candidate Jill
Stein delivers remarks at Wilkes University in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Stein has
formed an organization to try to force recounts of the election results in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             998 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Barry Aaron: Green Party does it again

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 204 words


"It's deja vu all over again." -- Yogi Berra

They say that those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it. So
once again this year, the so-called "Green Party" showed that it has learned
nothing from history by endorsing a presidential candidate with absolutely no
hope of winning the election, thus helping to propel yet another
non-environmentalist, climate-change denier into the White House.



 As most of us will recall, Ralph Nader's Green Party candidacy in 2000 cost Al
Gore --a true environmentalist and author of "An Inconvenient Truth" about
global warming -- the presidential election, despite Gore's overwhelming popular
vote victory over "W." (Nader garnered over 97,000 votes in Florida, which
ultimately went to Bush by only about 500 votes, thus giving Bush the Electoral
College plurality and the win.)

 This year, Jill Stein, who had no possible chance of winning the election, may
well have cost Hillary Clinton enough votes in Michigan (where Stein drew about
50,000) and Wisconsin (31,000) to help propel Trump over the magical 270
electoral vote mark.

 How ironic that it is Jill Stein who is now demanding a recount of this year's
election results in three key swing states.

 Barry Aaron

 Boulder

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             999 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Judith Jarke: Embarrassed for my country

BYLINE: Judith Jarke

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 415 words


I am a 61-year-old, Caucasian, college-educated woman, living in the state of
Colorado. I voted for Secretary Clinton in the presidential election. While
disappointed in the election's outcome, I pulled myself together and decided to
give Mr. Trump the benefit of the doubt. He gave a basically good acceptance
speech. He went to the White House and seemed to be deferential and respectful
towards President Obama. But, then it happened. He tweeted!

In today's parlance, OMG! Does he never think before he tweets? I am tired of
Mr. Trump's staff and supporters "spinning" his behavior. He seems to have no
awareness of just how many people he has offended throughout the campaign, as
well as with that tweet shortly after the election  which denigrated the
protesters around the country.

 On one of the news stations, I heard a Trump supporter say that "they (his
supporters) didn't take his language seriously, only his platform, whereas the
rest of us took his language seriously and not his platform." Mr. Trump's people
keep saying he's a lovely, gracious man. Those of us who don't know him
personally, do not know  that. When you don't know someone, you tend to judge
them by what they tell you, and how they behave. Mr. Trump has to know, but I'm
guessing doesn't care, that he behaves like an ill-mannered child at best.

 I have been offended beyond belief by Mr. Trump. I cannot bear to think of him
as my President. I am embarrassed for my country; that he will be our
representative to the world! He is expected to act with dignity, compassion, and
decency. Recently, I heard him say he didn't regret his behavior during the
campaign because he won. At what cost? I fear for our civilized society.

 In the coming weeks before the inauguration, Mr. Trump needs a crash course in
how to speak and behave properly. And if he is truly interested in bringing the
country together, he needs to gain an understanding of why half the people of
this country are upset with the outcome of the election and then address that
issue with the people. This country is not Trump Corporation. Mr. Trump cannot
fire those of us who have issues with him as a human being. People should not be
expected to just "fall in line" and move on as if it's business as usual. What
happened throughout the campaign was anything but usual. It's one thing to be
unconventional, but to be outrageously and blatantly offensive is not acceptable
from anyone, least of all our President.

 Judith Jarke lives in Boulder.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


                             1000 of 1291 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Sharon Schryver: Electors have a moral duty

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 109 words


Alexander Hamilton contended, in Federalist No. 68, that the Electoral College
prevents influence by foreign interests in the U.S. presidential election. James
Madison argued in Federalist No. 10 that the Electoral College protects the
Republic from mischiefs of faction, citizens united by a common impulse that is
adverse to the rights of other citizens. The Electoral College was created to
protect the republic from a candidate like Donald Trump and it is time for the
electors to fulfill this duty. The electors have the constitutional right, and
the moral responsibility, to support the popular vote-winner in this election.

Sharon Schryver

 Erie

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved
