
                              1 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Justice Alito rallies conservatives in tribute to Scalia

BYLINE:  By MARK SHERMAN Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 688 words


WASHINGTON - Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito issued a rallying cry to
conservatives Thursday amid newfound strength following Donald Trump's election.

Alito told the Federalist Society conference of conservative lawyers, judges and
legal thinkers that religious freedom and gun rights are among "constitutional
fault lines," important issues at stake in the federal courts.

The conference of 1,800 of conservatism's leading lights took on a new air of
importance with Trump's victory and included a list of judges the
president-elect has named as candidates to fill the vacancy created by the death
last February of Justice Antonin Scalia.

In his remarks, Alito didn't mention the election or the vacancy, rather using
the platform to pay tribute to Scalia, a longtime colleague and conservative
ally in high court battles on hot-button social and political issues.

He said Scalia, a hero to many of the group's 40,000 members, is sorely missed
on the court. "We are left to ask ourselves WWSD," what would Scalia do, Alito
said. The lettering is a play on the phrase "WWJD," for what would Jesus do.

In the halls of the conference there was little formal talk of the election or
the fight to seat a new justice. But attendees packed a lunchtime panel
moderated by Michigan Supreme Court Justice Joan Larsen, one of 21 people on
Trump's list, and the Supreme Court vacancy was the talk of hallway chatter
among lawyers who ranged from Trump backers to those who proclaimed they would
never vote for him.

Larsen served as a Supreme Court law clerk to Scalia and said he valued his
clerks' frank assessment of his work. "It was a formidable task to stand up to
Justice Scalia and say, 'You have gone too far.' But he valued that," Larsen
said.

Later, she declined to discuss her status on Trump's list, saying she intends to
complete her state court term, which runs through 2021. "That's really where my
focus lies," she said in a brief conversation with The Associated Press.

Other sessions were moderated by Minnesota Supreme Court Justice David Stras and
federal appellate judges William Pryor and Thomas Hardiman, all on Trump's list.
Before the conference ends Saturday, nine judges on the list are expected to
appear.

The court has been operating with eight justices since Scalia's death because
Senate Republicans blocked action on President Barack Obama's nomination of
Judge Merrick Garland.

Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas also was on the schedule at the
conference, which has turned into an impromptu job fair for spots in the new
administration.

"The mood has changed. Everyone is going to be thinking, 'Maybe someone here is
going to be filling Justice Scalia's shoes,'" said Abbe Gluck, a Yale Law
professor who is not a member of the group but will participate in the
conference.

The Federalist Society got its start on college campuses when Ronald Reagan was
in the White House.

It was conceived as a way to counter what its members saw as liberal domination
of the nation's law school faculties. Its influence was pronounced during the
presidency of George W. Bush, when its leaders helped rally support for Senate
confirmation of Alito and Chief Justice John Roberts. The group was so
successful that it spawned copycat liberal organizations.

Nan Aron, the president of Alliance for Justice, said the Federalist Society
"promotes a way of looking at the law which upholds the rights of the powerful
and the wealthy." Aron said it is "regrettable that so many nominees on Trump's
list are going to attend Federalist Society events."

Yet a conservative legal scholar who has been critical of Trump said the group's
involvement in identifying candidates for judgeships and other jobs in the new
administration is not something to fear.

"In fact, if the Federalist Society does play a role in identifying the
president-elect's nominees, that could be comforting to some who have
reservations about Donald Trump's administration, because such a role would
suggest, at least in this area, continuity with long-standing, mainstream
Republican practice," University of Notre Dame law professor Richard Garnett
said in an email.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito speaks at the Federalist Society's
National Lawyers Convention in Washington, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016. (AP
Photo/Cliff Owen)  Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito speaks at the Federalist
Society's National Lawyers Convention in Washington, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016.
(AP Photo/Cliff Owen)  FILE - In this March 13, 2006, file photo, Allison Eid is
sworn in as chief justice of the Colorado Supreme Court in Denver. Two Supreme
Court justices and nine judges on President-elect Donald Trump's list of
potential high court picks are among more than 1,000 people expected at a
gathering of conservative lawyers that has suddenly turned into an impromptu job
fair for spots in the new administration. The Federalist Society's national
lawyers' convention begins Nov. 17 in Washington as a tribute to the late
Justice Antonin Scalia, an early supporter of the group and a hero to many of
its 40,000 members. (AP Photo/Linda McConnell, Pool)  FILE - In this Sept. 1,
2015, file photo, Texas Supreme Court Justice Don Willett, left, asks a question
during oral arguments at the state Supreme Court in Austin, Texas. Two Supreme
Court justices and nine judges on President-elect Donald Trump's list of
potential high court picks are among more than 1,000 people expected at a
gathering of conservative lawyers that has suddenly turned into an impromptu job
fair for spots in the new administration. The Federalist Society's national
lawyers' convention begins Nov. 17 in Washington as a tribute to the late
Justice Antonin Scalia, an early supporter of the group and a hero to many of
its 40,000 members. (AP Photo/Eric Gay, File)  In this Nov. 16, 2016, photo,
Federalist Society Executive Vice President Leonard Leo speaks to media at Trump
Tower, in New York. Two Supreme Court justices and nine judges on
President-elect Donald Trump's list of potential high court picks are among more
than 1,000 people expected at a gathering of conservative lawyers that has
suddenly turned into an impromptu job fair for spots in the new administration.
The Federalist Society's national lawyers' convention begins Nov. 17 in
Washington as a tribute to the late Justice Antonin Scalia, an early supporter
of the group and a hero to many of its 40,000 members. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)
FILE - In this Sept. 30, 2015 file photo, Joan Larsen, a University of Michigan
law professor, speaks after she was appointed to the Michigan Supreme Court by
Gov. Rick Snyder, right, in Lansing, Mich. Two Supreme Court justices and nine
judges on President-elect Donald Trump's list of potential high court picks are
among more than 1,000 people expected at a gathering of conservative lawyers
that has suddenly turned into an impromptu job fair for spots in the new
administration. The Federalist Society's national lawyers' convention begins
Nov. 17 in Washington as a tribute to the late Justice Antonin Scalia, an early
supporter of the group and a hero to many of its 40,000 members. (AP Photo/David
Eggert, File)  FILE - In this Jan. 26, 2012 file photo, Supreme Court Justice
Clarence Thomas speaks at College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass. Two
Supreme Court justices and nine judges on President-elect Donald Trump's list of
potential high court picks are among more than 1,000 people expected at a
gathering of conservative lawyers that has suddenly turned into an impromptu job
fair for spots in the new administration. The Federalist Society's national
lawyers' convention begins Nov. 17 in Washington as a tribute to the late
Justice Antonin Scalia, an early supporter of the group and a hero to many of
its 40,000 members. (AP Photo/Michael Dwyer, File)  Supreme Court Justice Samuel
Alito arrives at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, to
address the Federalist Society's National Lawyers Convention. (AP Photo/Cliff
Owen)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              2 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

US Jews grapple with election-year eruption of anti-Semitism

BYLINE:  By RACHEL ZOLL Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 728 words


NEW YORK - American Jews gathered Thursday to wrestle with how they should
confront an election-year surge in anti-Semitism, a level of bias not seen in
the U.S. for decades.

At a national meeting of the Anti-Defamation League, the Jewish civil rights
group, about 1,000 people listened to talks expressing shock at the hatred
expressed during the presidential campaign and questioned what they thought was
a high-level of acceptance by other Americans.

"I'm struggling right now in this American moment," said Yehuda Kurtzer,
president of the Shalom Hartman Institute of North America, an education and
research organization, in his talk at the event. "I wonder whether I have been -
and I think the answer is probably yes - a little bit naive."

During this past year, anti-Semitic imagery proliferated on social media, Jewish
journalists were targeted and long-standing anti-Jewish conspiracy theories got
a fresh airing. Much of the bias originated with the alt-right, or alternative
right, a loose group espousing a provocative and reactionary strain of
conservatism. It's often associated with far right efforts to preserve "white
identity," oppose multiculturalism and defend "Western values."

Reports of anti-Semitic vandalism and other attacks also have risen. Last week,
the day after the election, a Philadelphia storefront was sprayed with a
swastika and the words "Sieg Heil 2106," which means "Hail Victory," a common
Nazi chant, and the word "Trump," with a swastika replacing the "T."

These developments have stunned U.S. Jewish leaders, who in recent years had
been more focused on anti-Semitism in Europe and on addressing complaints of
anti-Jewish bias on college campuses amid the debate over the boycott,
divestment and sanctions movement against Israeli policies toward the
Palestinians.

ADL officials said donations to their organization increased 50-fold in the days
immediately after the election and a large majority of the money came from
first-time donors. Every one of their regional offices reported an uptick in
calls from people wanting to donate or volunteer, the ADL said.

"We must not be silent, we must raise our voices, we must act, and to act we
must understand what we are up against," said Jonathan Greenblatt, chief
executive of ADL, opening the meeting in Manhattan.

As the presidential race intensified, Jews started seeing their names bracketed
with a series of parentheses in harassing tweets, signaling that the person had
been identified as a Jew. The image became known as the Jewish cowbell and its
source was traced to neo-Nazis and white nationalists.

The ADL investigated the harassment and found more than 800 journalists had
suffered anti-Semitic attacks on Twitter during the election, mostly from
anonymous Twitter accounts, although some belonged to white supremacists. In a
common example of the reporters' experiences, Jane Eisner, editor-in-chief of
the Forward, an influential Jewish newspaper that extensively covered the
election, said she received an email the morning after the second presidential
debate with an image of a Nazi solder pointing a gun at her head, which was
Photoshopped onto a concentration camp uniform.

Donald Trump's campaign came under scrutiny since much of the harassment came
from accounts tied to his supporters. He drew direct criticism last July when he
tweeted an image of Hillary Clinton's face with a six-pointed star, a pile of
hundred dollar bills and the words "most corrupt candidate ever." The star was
in the shape of the Jewish Star of David and was widely condemned as
anti-Semitic. Trump's campaign said it was a sheriff's badge.

Last month, Trump gave a speech in West Palm Beach, Fla., in which he accused
Clinton of holding secret meetings with bankers in a conspiracy to undermine
U.S. sovereignty. The ADL said that whether intentional or not, Trump had
reflected a classic anti-Semitic theme of Jewish control of banks.

The president-elect's daughter Ivanka, and her husband, Jared Kushner, who is
now one of his top advisers, are Orthodox Jews. Kushner has defended Trump
against allegations of bias.

The issue erupted anew when Trump announced far-right publishing executive
Stephen Bannon as his top White House strategist. Bannon led the Breitbart
website, considered by many to be the alt-right's platform that has been widely
condemned as racist, sexist and anti-Semitic.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Wednesday, June 17, 2015 file photo, Jonathan
Greenblatt, left, incoming national director for the Anti-Defamation League,
talks with Abe Foxman, outgoing director of the ADL, in New York. On Thursday,
Nov. 17, 2016, American Jews gathered to wrestle with how they should confront
an election-year surge in anti-Semitism, a level of bias not seen in the U.S.
for decades. "We must not be silent, we must raise our voices, we must act, and
to act we must understand what we are up against," said Greenblatt. (AP
Photo/Julie Jacobson)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              3 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Yellen says she isn't going anywhere when Trump takes office

BYLINE:  By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 456 words


WASHINGTON - Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said she has no plans to step
down before her term ends, reiterated the Fed's political independence and
defended tougher bank regulations established in the wake of the financial
crisis in remarks Thursday to Congress.

Her remarks suggest that the central bank is on track to raise interest rates at
its meeting in December, one month before President-elect Donald Trump takes
office.

An improving U.S. economy has bolstered the case for raising interest rates,
Yellen told Congress' Joint Economic Committee. Economic data since Fed
policymakers gathered in early November reinforced her view that the economy is
making progress toward the Fed's goals on employment and inflation.

She said that at the meeting, she and her colleagues believed that the case for
a rate increase "had continued to strengthen and that such an increase could
well become appropriate relatively soon."

Analysts viewed Yellen's comments as an effort to put markets on notice that a
rate hike is likely to occur at the Fed's last meeting of the year on Dec.
13-14. They noted that she dismissed a suggestion that increased market
uncertainty after Trump's election might be cause for a delay.

Asked whether it might be better to push back a move until January, Yellen said
that uncertainty surrounding Trump's proposals for tax cuts and infrastructure
spending could last longer than one month.

"Yellen's testimony before Congress ... further cemented in place expectations
that the Fed will hike rates next month," said Michael Feroli, senior economist
at JPMorgan.

Asked about her own future, Yellen said it was "fully my intention" to remain as
Fed chair until her four-year term ends in late January 2018.

The Fed raised its key interest rate in December 2015 and projected that it
could raise rates as many as four times in 2016. But it deferred as the U.S.
economy went through a prolonged soft patch. The rate has remained in a range of
0.25 percent to 0.5 percent for the entire year. The rate had been at a record
low near zero for seven years.

Economists are forecasting that the Fed will raise rates by a quarter-point in
December and then will boost rates twice in 2017.

In addition to firmly stating that she has no plans of leaving the Fed before
her term as chair is complete, Yellen also made clear that her views on bank
regulation differ from Trump's.

Yellen gave a strong defense of the Dodd-Frank Act, passed by Congress in 2010
to increase financial market regulations in an effort to prevent a repeat of the
2008 financial crisis. After the country lived through a "devastating financial
crisis," Yellen said that "I would not want to see the clock turned back on all
the improvements we have made."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen testifies on Capitol Hill in
Washington, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, before the Joint Economic Committee. Yellen
sketched a picture of an improving U.S. economy and said "the case for an
increase" in interest rates has strengthened. The Fed is widely expected to
raise rates when it meets in mid-December. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)  Federal
Reserve Chair Janet Yellen smiles as she arrives to testify on Capitol Hill in
Washington, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, before the Joint Economic Committee. Yellen
sketched a picture of an improving U.S. economy and said "the case for an
increase" in interest rates has strengthened. The Fed is widely expected to
raise rates when it meets in mid-December. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)  Joint
Economic Committee Chairman Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind., right, and ranking member
Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y., left, listen as Federal Reserve Chair Janet
Yellen, center, speaks on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016.
Yellen sketched a picture of an improving U.S. economy and said "the case for an
increase" in interest rates has strengthened. The Fed is widely expected to
raise rates when it meets in mid-December. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)  Federal
Reserve Chair Janet Yellen, left, shakes hands with Joint Economic Committee
Chairman Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind. after she testified on Capitol Hill in
Washington, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, before the committee. Yellen sketched a
picture of an improving U.S. economy and said "the case for an increase" in
interest rates has strengthened. The Fed is widely expected to raise rates when
it meets in mid-December. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)  Federal Reserve Chair Janet
Yellen testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, before
the Joint Economic Committee. Yellen sketched a picture of an improving U.S.
economy and said "the case for an increase" in interest rates has strengthened.
The Fed is widely expected to raise rates when it meets in mid-December. (AP
Photo/Susan Walsh)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              4 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump election puts pressure on Merkel to take liberal lead

BYLINE:  By FRANK JORDANS Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 725 words


BERLIN - Can Germany, the country that once unleashed Nazism, lead the free
world?

The idea that the former home of militarism and nationalism could become a
beacon for human rights and peaceful international cooperation within one
lifetime may seem far-fetched.

But with outsider Donald Trump's election as U.S. president and the rising
strength of far-right and populist movements in Europe, some have suggested that
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is left as the last powerful defender of liberal
values in the West.

Since taking office in 2005, Merkel has been a fixture of the international
summit circuit, often providing the only dash of color in row upon row of gray
suits.

She has outlasted most of her contemporaries - save for Russian President
Vladimir Putin - and won plaudits for successfully steering her country through
the turmoil of the global financial crisis.

Along the way, the trained physicist has deftly maintained relations with allies
as they gained new leaders, including prime ministers and presidents whose
positions were very different from her own.

"I could not have asked for a steady and more reliable partner on the world
stage," President Barack Obama said Thursday after meeting with Merkel in Berlin
during his final foreign tour. He described the German chancellor as "a great
friend and ally" who looks out for her own country's interests while recognizing
that this also requires working with others to solve common problems.

Merkel raised eyebrows last week when she departed from the usual diplomatic
script after Trump's election by suggesting that respect for liberal values was
a precondition for Berlin's continued good relations with Washington. Many
commentators saw her remarks as a sign that the chancellor was prepared to
thrust Germany into the forefront of international politics and challenge the
new U.S. administration if necessary.

Standing beside Obama, she pledged to "do everything to work well with the new
president" but insisted that the basis for cooperation would have to be
"democracy, freedom and human rights worldwide and to strive for an open and
liberal world order."

Obama's decision to stop in Germany for two days reinforced the image of him
passing the baton to Merkel. Rather than bid farewell to Europe in Paris, the
capital of America's oldest ally, or in Britain - which prides itself on having
a "special relationship" with Washington - Obama's choice signaled a recognition
that the heart of the old continent now lies in Berlin.

The leaders of Europe's other major powers - Britain, France, Italy and Spain -
will meet Obama in the German capital Friday, a day after he confers at length
with Merkel.

"The phrase 'leader of the free world' is usually applied to the president of
the United States, and rarely without irony," Timothy Garton Ash, a historian
and professor of European studies at Oxford University, wrote Friday in
Britain's left-leaning Guardian newspaper. "I'm tempted to say that the leader
of the free world is now Angela Merkel."

Yet skeptics point out that Merkel may not be suited to rally the West.

Her decision last year to open Germany's borders to hundreds of thousands of
people fleeing war and poverty was seized upon by European nationalists and
featured prominently in Britain's debate over quitting the European Union -
which the 'leave' camp narrowly won.

European allies blame her for earlier stoking popular unrest by insisting on the
need to cut public spending during the continent's debt crisis. And in Ukraine,
Merkel's recent efforts to maintain a united European front in the face of
Russian aggression are looking increasingly fragile.

Domestically, Merkel is battling a new nationalist foe in the form of
Alternative for Germany, a party that has surged in popularity by railing
against refugees. Rather than confronting the party head-on, Merkel has instead
stuck to her measured mantra of "We will manage."

"Germany can't replace the United States as the leader of the free world," Josef
Braml, an expert on international affairs at the German Council on Foreign
Relations, said.

"At best, it can protect Europe from nationalist tendencies and remind America
that the liberal world order it established is also in the economic interests of
the United States. That's something the new businessman in the White House
should be able to understand."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  U.S. President Barack Obama, right, and German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, left, shake hands after a press conference as part of a meeting at the
chancellery in Berlin, Germany, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016. Germany is the last
European stop of Obama's final tour abroad as U.S. president. (AP Photo/Michael
Sohn)  FILE - In this Feb. 22, 2009 file photo German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
left, President of France Nicolas Sarkozy and Prime Minister of Italy Silvio
Berlusconi, right, address the media after a meeting in Berlin, Germany. The
idea that the country that unleashed Nazism should become a beacon for human
rights and peaceful international cooperation within one lifetime may seem
far-fetched, but some have suggested that Merkel may become the last powerful
defender of liberal values in the West. (AP Photo/Michael Sohn, file)  FILE - In
this July 8, 2008 file photo Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, left,
holds on to the arm of U.S. President George W. Bush, as German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, right, looks on, before posing for the official photo at the G8
summit in the lakeside resort of Toyako on Japan northern main island of
Hokkaido. The idea that the country that unleashed Nazism should become a beacon
for human rights and peaceful international cooperation within one lifetime may
seem far-fetched, but some have suggested that Merkel may become the last
powerful defender of liberal values in the West. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez
Monsivais, file)  FILE - In this June 7, 2011 file photo. U.S. President Barack
Obama, right, presents German Chancellor Angela Merkel with the Medal of Freedom
during the State Dinner in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. The
idea that the country that unleashed Nazism should become a beacon for human
rights and peaceful international cooperation within one lifetime may seem
far-fetched, but some have suggested that Merkel may become the last powerful
defender of liberal values in the West. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais,
FILE)  FILE - In this June 6, 2014 file photo, German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
left, Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, and then Ukrainian
president-elect Petro Poroshenko, center, talk as they take part in the 70th
anniversary of D-Day in Benouville in Normandy, France. The idea that the
country that unleashed Nazism should become a beacon for human rights and
peaceful international cooperation within one lifetime may seem far-fetched, but
some have suggested that Merkel may become the last powerful defender of liberal
values in the West. (Regis Duvignau/Pool Photo via AP, file)  FILE - In this
Jan. 21, 2007 file photo German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Russian President
Vladimir Putin pose for a photograph as Putin's dog Cony sits in the center,
during the meeting in Putin's residence in the Russian Black Sea resort of
Sochi. The idea that the country that unleashed Nazism should become a beacon
for human rights and peaceful international cooperation within one lifetime may
seem far-fetched, but some have suggested that Merkel may become the last
powerful defender of liberal values in the West. (AP Photo/Mikhail Metzel, file)
German Chancellor Angela Merkel walks behind President Barack Obama after their
joint news conference at the German Chancellery in Berlin, Thursday, Nov. 17,
2016. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              5 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump claims to save auto plant. But it wasn't closing.

BYLINE:  By TOM KRISHER Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 399 words


DETROIT - President-elect Donald Trump claimed Thursday that he persuaded the
chairman of Ford Motor Co. not to move an assembly plant to Mexico from
Kentucky. But Ford never intended to move the plant, just production of one of
the vehicles it makes.

Trump said in a tweet that Bill Ford, the company's executive chairman,
telephoned him with the news that a "Lincoln plant" would stay in Louisville.
Instead Ford decided to keep production of the Lincoln MKC small SUV at the
Louisville Assembly Plant. Ford had previously said it would move production of
the MKC out of the plant in order to build more Ford Escapes there.

A factory in Cuautitlan, Mexico, was likely to get the MKC. Under a contract
negotiated last year with the United Auto Workers, Ford agreed to invest $700
million in the Louisville plant in return for moving production of the MKC.
Because Escape production would increase, no Louisville jobs would be lost.

It's possible the decision to keep the MKC in Kentucky was made before the
election, because Escape sales have been falling since July and additional
production capacity in Louisville may not be needed.

On Friday, Ford would say only that the MKC decision was "recent," but
spokeswoman Christin Baker wouldn't say exactly when it was made or whether
Trump directly influenced it.

The MKC and Escape are essentially the same vehicle and are now built by the
same workers on the same assembly line. But while Ford has sold over 258,000
Escapes this year, it's sold only about 21,000 MKCs. So, moving the MKC would
have had little impact on the factory even if Escape production was not
increased.

Still, Trump claimed credit for saving a factory from moving to Mexico. "I
worked hard with Bill Ford to keep the Lincoln plant in Kentucky. I owed it to
the great State of Kentucky for their confidence in me!" Trump said in one of
two tweets on the subject. His initial tweet said: "Just got a call from my
friend Bill Ford, Chairman of Ford, who advised me that he will be keeping the
Lincoln plant in Kentucky - no Mexico."

Ford Motor Co. and Trump have engaged in a yearlong feud over the automaker's
plans to move production south of the border. The company plans to shift
small-car production from suburban Detroit to Mexico to improve profitability of
the lower-priced cars. CEO Mark Fields said Tuesday that the presidential
election didn't change the company's plan.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FiLE - In this Nov. 11, 2014 file photo, Bill Ford Jr., Ford Motor
Company Executive Chairman, speaks during news conference on the 2015 F-150
pickup truck at the Dearborn Truck Plant in Dearborn, Mich. President-elect
Donald Trump claimed Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, that he convinced the chairman of
Ford Motor Co. not to move an assembly plant from Kentucky to Mexico. But Ford
never intended to move the plant, just production of one of the vehicles it
makes.(AP Photo/Paul Sancya)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              6 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump's election triggers flood of immigration questions

BYLINE:  By SOPHIA TAREEN Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 677 words


CHICAGO - Immigration hotlines are buzzing. Legal clinics are seeing an influx
of clients. Public schools are fielding frantic questions from parents and
students.

Since the election, President-elect Donald Trump's tough talk on immigration has
stirred anxiety nationwide among immigrants regardless of legal status. They are
turning to lawyers, schools, advocacy groups and congressional offices for help.

"We're operating with a lot of unknowns, and a certain amount of fear comes with
that," said Vanessa Esparza-López, a managing attorney at the Chicago-based
National Immigrant Justice Center.

In Chicago, a hotline run by the state's largest immigrant-rights group received
more than 330 calls in the week after the election, compared with the usual 100
or so. Denver school officials sent a letter to parents in response to questions
about the election's effect on students living in the country illegally.

The New York Legal Assistance Group said it's receiving 40 to 60 daily calls
about immigration, up from 20 to 30. The Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights
of Los Angeles reported 19 walk-ins on a single day, all with citizenship
questions.

The most urgent inquiries have been from young people benefiting from a 2012
federal program started by President Barack Obama's administration that allows
immigrants brought to the country illegally as children to avoid deportation and
get work permits. About 740,000 people have participated in the Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals system.

Attorneys say the program is vulnerable because it was created by executive
order, not by law, leaving new potential applicants second-guessing whether to
sign up.

Andrea Aguilera, 20, who attends a suburban Chicago college, feels in limbo with
her DACA paperwork expiring next year.

She was brought across the Mexican border illegally at age 4 and largely kept
her immigration status secret until she was able to get a work permit through
DACA four years ago. She's since worked as a grocery store cashier and as a
finance office intern at a Chicago organization. Two of her siblings are in the
program. Another is a U.S. citizen.

"It's been hard to focus on school," Aguilera said. "I just don't know what's
going to come next for us."

During the campaign, Trump pledged to deport the estimated 11 million immigrants
living in the country illegally and to build a border wall. The Republican
president-elect has not detailed how he will proceed and recently walked back
the number of anticipated deportees.

The Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates for lower immigration
levels, explained the spike in activity as uncertainty about whether current
laws would be enforced by Trump's administration. Jon Feere, a legal analyst at
the Washington-based research organization, said those enrolled in DACA were
aware of the risks when they signed up. Others should have little concern.

"Those who are in compliance with the law have nothing to worry about," he said.

'TRUST AND UNITY'

Still, even immigrants with permanent legal status have had questions since the
election.

Attorneys and immigrant organizations said green card holders feel new urgency
to ensure that paperwork such as a renewal application is in order over fears
that laws could change under a new administration. Most immigrants can seek
citizenship three to five years after getting a green card.

Roughly 9 million green card holders are currently eligible for citizenship,
according to the most recent Department of Homeland Security statistics. Some
citizens also sought clarity about when they could sponsor family members
abroad.

"People need reassurance," said Irina Matiychenko, who leads the immigrant
protection unit at the New York Legal Assistance Group. "People need guidance."

In Phoenix, local leaders planned a weekend meeting about being an immigrant in
Arizona as an effort to "guide us on the path of trust and unity."

Staff members at the Chicago office of Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., reported an
uptick in activity with at least 60 new applications for citizenship the past
two weeks.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Andrea Aguilera sits at the Erie Neighborhood House in Chicago,
Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016. Aguilera, 20, a student at a suburban Chicago college,
said she feels uncertain since the election. She was brought to the country
illegally as a child and has been able to get a work permit and avoid
deportation through a federal program called, Deferred Action for Childhood
Arrivals. She said she doesn't know what will happen next with the program. (AP
Photo/Nam Y. Huh)  Moises Hernandez looks outside from his office on Thursday,
Nov. 17, 2016, in Chicago. Moises Hernandez, a longtime Chicago immigration
attorney, said he's seen an uptick in inquiries from clients since the election.
He said many of the questions are from young people living in the country
illegally who were granted work permits under a federal program started by
President Barack Obama's administration. He said he's also heard from those with
green cards who want to become U.S. citizens. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)  Andrea
Aguilera stands at the Erie Neighborhood House in Chicago, Thursday, Nov. 17,
2016. Aguilera, 20, a student at a suburban Chicago college, said she feels
uncertain since the election. She was brought to the country illegally as a
child and has been able to get a work permit and avoid deportation through a
federal program called, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. She said she
doesn't know what will happen next with the program. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)
Andrea Aguilera stands at the Erie Neighborhood House in Chicago, Thursday, Nov.
17, 2016. Aguilera, 20, a student at a suburban Chicago college, said she feels
uncertain since the election. She was brought to the country illegally as a
child and has been able to get a work permit and avoid deportation through a
federal program called, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. She said she
doesn't know what will happen next with the program. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)
Andrea Aguilera sits at the Erie Neighborhood House in Chicago, Thursday, Nov.
17, 2016. Aguilera, 20, a student at a suburban Chicago college, said she feels
uncertain since the election. She was brought to the country illegally as a
child and has been able to get a work permit and avoid deportation through a
federal program called, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. She said she
doesn't know what will happen next with the program. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)
Moises Hernandez sits in his office on Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, in Chicago.
Hernandez, a longtime Chicago immigration attorney, said he's seen an uptick in
inquiries from clients since the election. He said many of the questions are
from young people living in the country illegally who were granted work permits
under a federal program started by President Barack Obama's administration. He
said he's also heard from those with green cards who want to become U.S.
citizens. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)  Andrea Aguilera stands in front of the Erie
Neighborhood House in Chicago, on Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016. Aguilera, 20, a
student at a suburban Chicago college, said she feels uncertain since the
election. She was brought to the country illegally as a child and has been able
to get a work permit and avoid deportation through a federal program called,
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. She said she doesn't know what will
happen next with the program. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)  Moises Hernandez sits in
his office on Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, in Chicago. Hernandez, a longtime Chicago
immigration attorney, said he's seen an uptick in inquiries from clients since
the election. He said many of the questions are from young people living in the
country illegally who were granted work permits under a federal program started
by President Barack Obama's administration. He said he's also heard from those
with green cards who want to become U.S. citizens. (AP Photo/Nam Y. Huh)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              7 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Obama blocks new oil, gas drilling in Arctic Ocean

BYLINE:  Associated press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 219 words


WASHINGTON - The administration of President Barack Obama is blocking new oil
and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean, handing a victory to environmentalists who
say industrial activity in the icy waters will harm whales, walruses and other
wildlife and exacerbate global warming.

A five-year offshore drilling plan announced on Friday blocks the planned sale
of new oil and gas drilling rights in the Chukchi and Beaufort seas north of
Alaska. The plan allows drilling to go forward in Alaska's Cook Inlet southwest
of Anchorage.

The blueprint for drilling from 2017 to 2022 can be rewritten by President-elect
Donald Trump, in a process that could take months or years.

Besides Cook Inlet, the plan also allows drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, long
the center of U.S. offshore oil production. Ten of the 11 lease sales proposed
in the five-year plan are in the Gulf, mostly off the coasts of Mississippi,
Louisiana, Texas and Alabama.

Confirming a decision announced this spring, the five-year plan also bars
drilling in the Atlantic Ocean.

Industry representatives reacted bitterly to the announcement, calling the
decision blatantly political.

"The arrogance of the decision is unfathomable, but unfortunately not
surprising," said Randall Luthi, president of the National Ocean Industries
Association, an industry group.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this 2007 file photo, an oil transit pipeline runs across
the tundra to flow station at the Prudhoe Bay oil field on Alaska's North
Slope.The Obama administration is blocking new oil and gas drilling in the
Arctic Ocean, handing a victory to environmentalists who say industrial activity
in the icy waters will harm marine mammals and exacerbate global warming. (AP
Photo/Al Grillo, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              8 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 FIRST EDITION

People: Kanye West says if he'd voted, he would've voted for Trump

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 284 words


West would have voted for Trump

Kanye West says he didn't vote in the presidential election, but if he had, he
would have voted for Republican President-elect Donald Trump.

Fan video shows West making the comments on stage at a concert in San Jose,
Calif., on Thursday. The announcement was mostly met with boos from the crowd.
West told fans that "sometimes you might have to not get your way in order to
really understand what to do in the future to be able to get your way."

Fetching Marilyn Monroe dress fetches $5 million - Officials say a dress worn by
Marilyn Monroe as she famously sang "Happy Birthday" to President John. F.
Kennedy has sold for nearly $5 million at a Los Angeles auction.

Julien's Auctions says the iconic, form-fitting gown was sold for $4.8 million
Thursday night to Ripley's Believe It or Not.

The company says the actress wore the designer Jean Louis creation -
flesh-colored and sparkling with more than 2,500 hand-stitched crystals - on May
19, 1962, for an early 45th birthday celebration for Kennedy at New York's
Madison Square Garden.

Dylan will skip prize ceremony but give lecture - Bob Dylan, who was awarded the
2016 Nobel Prize for literature but won't be attending the prize ceremony,
likely will travel to Stockholm next year and might give his Nobel Lecture then,
the Swedish Academy said Friday. Dylan likely will give a concert in the Swedish
capital, offering "a perfect opportunity to deliver his lecture," the academy
said. The Swedish Academy awards the prize.

CELEBRITY BIRTHDAYS

Comedian Dick Smothers is 78. Broadcast journalist Judy Woodruff is 70. Musician
Joe Walsh is 69. Actress Bo Derek is 60. Actress Sean Young is 57. Country
singer Dierks Bentley is 41.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Aug. 28, 2016, file photo, Kanye West appears at the
MTV Video Music Awards at Madison Square Garden in New York. Fan video shows
West telling a crowd at his show in San Jose, Calif. Nov. 17, 2016, that he
didn't vote in the presidential election, but if he had, he would have voted for
Republican President-elect Donald Trump. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP,
File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              9 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Political risks come with control of Washington for GOP

BYLINE:  By ERICA WERNER Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 585 words


WASHINGTON - For Republicans, there will be no one left to blame.

As they prepare to take control of the White House and both chambers of Congress
next year, Republicans are celebrating the opportunity to enact a new agenda for
the country, including lowering taxes, securing the border and repealing
President Barack Obama's health care law.

But with that opportunity comes massive political risk: If President-elect
Donald Trump and congressional Republicans don't deliver, they will face a
serious reckoning with voters. That could begin with the 2018 midterm elections,
when every House member and one-third of the Senate will be up for re-election.

"The American public has clearly said that they want to go a different
direction," said Republican Rep. Ken Buck of Colorado. "And if we are not
effective in moving in that different direction, they will take the opportunity
away from us, and they will return it to the Democrats."

Said Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, speaking Friday at the Federalist Society: "It's
time to put up or shut up. There are no excuses."

That sobering reality has been sinking in for GOP members of the House and
Senate as they begin the early stages of planning an agenda for next year.

Republicans point out that although they will control a majority in the Senate
with 52 votes, that's well short of the 60-vote supermajority needed to advance
most major initiatives, including Supreme Court nominees. So although
Republicans would be able to use a legislative maneuver to send a health care
repeal to Trump's desk with just a simple majority, other major objectives,
including immigration and border enforcement, would require some degree of
cooperation from minority Democrats.

That could give Senate Democrats' new leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, veto
power over major chunks of Trump's agenda. And it has led to a call from some
House Republicans for their Senate colleagues to try to push through a rules
change to eliminate the 60-vote filibuster barrier.

"They're either going to have to modify that rule, or they're going to have to
face the wrath of the voters," said Rep. Matt Salmon, R-Ariz., who is retiring
at the end of this year.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., is an institutionalist who has
shown no enthusiasm for such a move. But Republicans fret that a shortage of
votes in the Senate is not likely to be a winning political excuse to most
voters who picked an outsider in Trump to bring wholesale change to Washington,
and now want to see that happen.

"We can talk about not having 60 in the Senate, but I think that our time to
show that we can govern is now," said GOP Rep. Tom Rooney of Florida.

The Republican role on health care seems particularly risky to some in the
party. Democrats have borne severe political consequences for pushing through
the Affordable Care Act in 2010. They lost control of the House in that year's
midterm elections, and Republicans have used the health care issue ever since to
rally their base and attack Democrats.

But if Republicans repeal it, as they are determined to do, they will be the
ones responsible for whatever comes next. And given the enormous complexity of
the U.S. health care system, which accounts for fully one-sixth of the U.S.
economy, the potential for complications looks immense. Even after six years,
Republicans have failed to unite around a single alternative to Obamacare, or a
solution to ensure that the 20 million Americans who gained health coverage
under the law don't suddenly lose it.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky., stands with fellow
Senate Republican leadership at a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington,
Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2016, following a closed-door Republican policy luncheon.
(AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)  Outgoing Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind., left, speaks with
Sen.-elect Todd Young, R-Ind., right, as they leave a Senate Republican
conference leadership election meeting on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday,
Nov. 16, 2016. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)  Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, left,
and Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-N.H. leave a Senate Republican conference leadership
election meeting on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2016, after
Senate Republicans re-elected Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky. to
be majority leader for the upcoming 115th Congress. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., left, and Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., followed by Sen.
Mark Warner, D-Va., and Sen. Richard Burr, R-N.C., walk to their caucus
organizing meeting to elect their leadership for the 115th Congress, Wednesday,
Nov. 16, 2016, on Capitol Hill in Washington. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon)  Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky., right, speaks with other Senators before
a Senate Republican conference leadership election meeting on Capitol Hill in
Washington, Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2016. Senate Republicans re-elected McConnell to
be majority leader, key legislative partner for next president Trump. (AP
Photo/Andrew Harnik)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

World leaders at APEC summit take aim at Trump over trade

BYLINE:  By JOSHUA GOODMAN and BEN FOX Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 531 words


LIMA, Peru - Several U.S. allies took aim at Donald Trump's views on global
trade, while China's president made an impassioned call against the sort of
protectionism favored by the president-elect, at a summit of Asian-Pacific
leaders on Saturday.

The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum is taking place in Peru as world
leaders are on edge over Trump's campaign pledges to protect U.S. jobs by
backing out of the not-yet-implemented Trans-Pacific Partnership and
renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement.

Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto said NAFTA helped workers and companies on
both sides of the border. He expressed concern that the U.S. could be turning
its back on a bilateral trade relationship responsible for moving $1 million
worth of goods every minute.

"In the face of Trump's positioning, we're now in a stage of favoring dialogue
as a way to build a new agenda in our bilateral relationship," Pena Nieto told
business leaders. "Mexico, like the entire world, is about to initiate a new
stage with the U.S., and in commercial terms we want to give the right value to
this strategic relationship between Mexico and the U.S."

New Zealand's Prime Minister John Key spoke more bluntly, saying the "tremendous
despair" triggered by Trump's trade views couldn't be allowed to slow down
economic integration by the rest of the world.

"Even if the United States doesn't want to engage in free trade, President Trump
needs to know other countries do," Key said.

He said it was still possible to save the 12-nation TPP negotiated by the
administration of President Barack Obama by introducing cosmetic changes making
it acceptable to Trump or carving out a less ambitious pact among TPP
signatories that leaves out the U.S.

"I personally think that President Trump will be very much like chairman of the
corporation Trump is," he said. "He's a flexible business guy. He's going to
realize he has a role to play."

Chinese President Xi Jinping delivered perhaps the most-forceful defense of free
trade, given the size of his economy. In his kickoff speech from Peru, he said
the best response to rising protectionism would be for APEC's 21 members to
negotiate a free trade area encompassing the entire Pacific Rim.

"Closed and inclusive arrangements are not the right choice," Xi said, taking a
veiled stab at the TPP, which excludes China and is widely seen as an attempt to
reassert U.S. dominance in Asia. "Building a free trade area of the Asia-Pacific
is a strategic initiative critical for long-term prosperity."

Xi's remarks came as Chinese state media blasted Trump for "trade-bashing"
rhetoric that threatens global economic stability.

"The billionaire-turned-politician needs to prove that derailing the global
economy has not been one of the reasons why he ran for U.S. president," that
state-run Xinhua news agency said Saturday.

Obama warned against a rush to judgment on Trump, saying at a town hall on the
margins of the summit that it was too early to conclude that the new
administration would wipe out trade deals and create international problems.

"Don't just assume the worst," he said. "Wait until the administration's in
place" before drawing conclusions.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  China's President Xi Jinping waves after speaking at the CEO summit
during the annual Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in Lima, Peru,
Saturday, Nov. 19, 2016. (AP Photo/Esteban Felix)  US President Barack Obama
looks over to Mexico's President Enrique Pena Nieto attends a meeting with
leaders of participating countries in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) in
Lima, Peru, Saturday, Nov. 19, 2016. Obama will close a three-nation, post-U.S.
election tour the same way he opened it: by reassuring leaders from around the
world that U.S. democracy isn't broken and that everything will be fine when
Republican Donald Trump succeeds him next year. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez
Monsivais)  US President Barack Obama leaves after taking part in a town hall
with Young Leaders of the Americas Initiative in Lima, Peru, Saturday, Nov. 19,
2016. Obama, speaking on the margins of an Asia-Pacific summit, said tensions
over trade are likely under the new Trump administration and trade pacts may be
modified. But he predicted that once the administration sees how the deals are
working, "they'll determine that it's actually good both for the United States
and our trading partners." (AP Photo/Esteban Felix)  China's President Xi
Jinping waves as he arrives to speak at the CEO summit during the annual Asia
Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in Lima, Peru, Saturday, Nov. 19,
2016. (AP Photo/Esteban Felix)  China's President Xi Jinping speaks at the CEO
summit during the annual Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in Lima,
Peru, Saturday, Nov. 19, 2016. (AP Photo/Esteban Felix)  Mark Zuckerberg,
chairman and CEO of Facebook, speaks at the CEO summit during the annual Asia
Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in Lima, Peru, Saturday, Nov. 19,
2016. (AP Photo/Esteban Felix)  Mark Zuckerberg, chairman and CEO of Facebook,
speaks at the CEO summit during the annual Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
(APEC) forum in Lima, Peru, Saturday, Nov. 19, 2016. (AP Photo/Esteban Felix)
New Zealand's Prime Minister John Key, left, and Mexico's President Enrique Pena
Nieto, patucipate in a forum about trade at the Asia Pacific Economic
Cooperation, APEC, CEO Summit, in Lima, Peru, Saturday, Nov. 19, 2016. (AP
Photo/Esteban Felix)  New Zealand's Prime Minister John Key takes part in a
forum about trade at the CEO summit during the annual Asia Pacific Economic
Cooperation (APEC) forum in Lima, Peru, Saturday, Nov. 19, 2016. (AP
Photo/Esteban Felix)  U.S. President Barack Obama greets guests after speaking
at a town hall with Young Leaders of the Americas Initiative (YLAI) in Lima,
Peru, Saturday, Nov. 19, 2016. Obama, who is in Peru to attend the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation (APEC), will close a three-nation, post-U.S. election tour
the same way he opened it: by reassuring leaders from around the world that U.S.
democracy isn't broken and that everything will be fine when Republican Donald
Trump succeed him next year. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

People

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 337 words


Trump demands apology from 'Hamilton' actor

President-elect Donald Trump demanded an apology Saturday from the "Hamilton"
cast member who gave Mike Pence an onstage earful about equality. Actor Brandon
Victor Dixon told the Republican vice president-elect after the curtain call
Friday night that the Broadway hit's multiracial and multicultural cast was
concerned about the Trump administration.

"We, sir, we are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new
administration will not protect us, our planet, our children, our parents, or
defend us and uphold our inalienable rights," said Dixon, who plays Aaron Burr,
the nation's third vice president. "We truly hope this show has inspired you to
uphold our American values and work on behalf of all of us. All of us."

Pence ducked out before Dixon finished the message but heard the full remarks
from the hallway.

Dylan may give Nobel lecture in 2017 - Bob Dylan, who was awarded the 2016 Nobel
Prize for literature but won't be attending the prize ceremony, plans to travel
to Stockholm for a concert next year and may give his Nobel lecture then, the
Swedish Academy said Friday.

Washington to lead TV academy board - Hayma "Screech" Washington will be the
next chairman and CEO of the Television Academy Board of Governors. The first
African-American to hold the job, he will succeed Bruce Rosenblum. Washington,
who produces and directs under the aegis of his own company, Screechers Pix, and
was an executive producer on "The Amazing Race," will begin his two-year term on
Jan. 1.

Monroe dress fetches $4.8 million - A dress worn by Marilyn Monroe as she
famously sang "Happy Birthday" to President John. F. Kennedy has sold for nearly
$5 million at a Los Angeles auction. Julien's Auctions says the iconic was sold
for $4.8 million Thursday night to Ripley's Believe It or Not.

CELEBRITY BIRTHDAYS

Comedian Dick Smothers is 78. Broadcast journalist Judy Woodruff is 70. Musician
Joe Walsh is 69. Actress Bo Derek is 60. Country singer Dierks Bentley is 41.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Aug. 28, 2016, file photo, Kanye West appears at the
MTV Video Music Awards at Madison Square Garden in New York. Fan video shows
West telling a crowd at his show in San Jose, Calif. Nov. 17, 2016, that he
didn't vote in the presidential election, but if he had, he would have voted for
Republican President-elect Donald Trump. (Photo by Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP,
File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump opponents try to beat him at the Electoral College

BYLINE:  By KIMBERLEE KRUESI and BILL BARROW Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 666 words


BOISE, Idaho - Grass-roots campaigns have sprung up around the country to try to
persuade members of the Electoral College to do something that has never been
done in American history: deny the presidency to the clear Election Day winner.

Activists are circulating online petitions and using social media in hopes of
influencing Republican electors to cast their ballots for someone other than
President-elect Donald Trump and deprive him of the 270 Electoral College votes
needed to become the next occupant of the White House.

"Yes, I think it's a long shot, but I also think we're living in strange times,"
said Daniel Brezenoff, who created a petition in favor of Hillary Clinton and is
asking signers to lobby electors by email or phone. "If it was ever plausible,
it's this year."

Trump has won 290 electoral votes to Clinton's 232, with Michigan undecided, but
Clinton is on pace to win the popular vote by at least 1 million ballots.
Trump's opponents are motivated by the outcome of the popular vote and by their
contention that the businessman and reality TV star is unfit to serve as
commander in chief.

Just one elector so far has wavered publicly on supporting Trump. Texas
Republican Art Sisneros says he has reservations about the president-elect.

"As a Christian, I came to the conclusion that Mr. Trump is not biblically
qualified for that office," he said.

He said he had heard from ecstatic Clinton supporters and even supportive
Republicans, but also from outraged Trump backers writing "threatening and vile
things."

Sisneros signed a state party pledge to support the GOP's standard-bearer, but
that was before Trump was the official nominee. Sisneros said one of his options
was to resign, allowing the state party to choose another elector.

Electors are chosen by party officials and are typically the party's most loyal
members. Presidential electors are not required to vote for a particular
candidate under the Constitution. Even so, the National Archives says more than
99 percent of electors have voted as pledged throughout the nation's history.

Some state laws call for fines against "faithless electors," while others open
them to potential felony charges, although the National Archives says no elector
has ever been prosecuted for failing to vote as pledged. In North Carolina, a
faithless elector's vote is canceled, and he or she must immediately resign and
be replaced.

Layne Bangerter and Melinda Smyser, two of Idaho's four Republican electors,
said they had been flooded with emails, telephone calls and Facebook messages
from strangers urging them to reconsider their vote.

"It's just not going to work," Bangerter said.

The volume and tone of the messages caught the attention of Idaho's secretary of
state, who urged the public to remain civil as electors prepare to cast their
ballots on Dec. 19 while meeting in their states.

Republican Party officials in Georgia and Michigan said their electors also had
been bombarded with messages, and Iowa reported increased public interest in
obtaining contact information for electors.

Carole Jean Jordan, a GOP elector from Florida in 2000, recalled the
"unbelievably ugly" aftermath of the recount battle between George W. Bush and
then-Vice President Al Gore, a dispute that ended with the Supreme Court's
leaving Bush's slim margin intact and handing him the presidency.

Jordan said Florida's electors had been inundated with nasty letters from people
saying they should not vote for Bush.

CABINET PROGRESS

President-elect Donald Trump met Saturday at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J.,
with an eclectic mix of potential Cabinet picks, including high-profile
Republican foe Mitt Romney, a former presidential candidate Trump is believed to
be considering for secretary of state.

Also getting face time with Trump on Saturday were Michelle Rhee, the firebrand
California education activist and nemesis of teachers unions, who is a contender
for the post of education secretary. The meetings were scheduled to continue
Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Melinda Smyser, one of Idaho's four presidential electors, poses for a
portrait in Boise, Idaho, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016. Grassroots campaigns around
the country are trying to persuade members of the Electoral College to vote
against Donald Trump and deny him the 270 votes he needs to assume the
presidency. Smyser, one of Idaho's four Republican electors, said they have been
flooded with emails, telephone calls and Facebook messages from strangers urging
them to reconsider their vote. "It's just not going to work," Bangerter (AP
Photo/Otto Kitsinger)  In a photo from Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, Oakland
University senior Michael Banerian stands on campus in Rochester, Mich.
Banerian, a Republican representative to the Electoral College has been
receiving death threats. (AP Photo/Jose Juarez)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump again slams 'Hamilton'; Pence says he wasn't offended

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 610 words


It's Drake's night to shine

Drake, who has skipped his share of awards shows in recent years, shined at the
2016 American Music Awards, winning two trophies and debuting a commercial for
Apple Music.

The rapper, the leading nominee, won favorite artist - rap/hip-hop and favorite
album - rap/hip-hop for "Views" on Sunday. He was nominated twice in the
category, and he broke Michael Jackson's record for most AMA nominations after
scoring 13 nominations.

He also debuted a funny commercial of him singing Taylor Swift's "Bad Blood"
while working out - which comes after she was in an Apple Music commercial
singing his song "Jumpman" while running on the treadmill.

Bruno Mars kicked off the AMAs with some funk: He sang his hit "24K Magic."

Men strumming their guitars while singing was one of the night's themes: One
Direction's Niall Horan slowed things down for his solo single, "This Town";
James Bay sang his single "Let It Go"; and Shawn Mendes performed his hit "Treat
You Better" and the aching "Mercy."

Twenty one pilots won favorite duo or group-pop/rock, taking home the first
award of the night.

Trump lashes out again at 'overrated' musical - President-elect Donald Trump, in
the midst of choosing his Cabinet, took time out Sunday for a second day to
criticize the cast of the Broadway musical "Hamilton" and demand an apology for
a message an actor delivered from the stage to Trump's running mate about the
need for diversity in America. But Vice President-elect Mike Pence said he
wasn't offended by the message.

Pence said on "Fox News Sunday" that he heard the boos and cheers when he walked
into the Richard Rodgers Theatre with his nephew and daughter on Friday night to
see the show. He said he told his daughter: "That's what freedom sounds like."

Trump had a different take on the message from cast member Brandon Victor Dixon,
who had expressed his concerns in a prepared speech after the curtain call about
the incoming Republican administration.

Trump tweeted Saturday that Pence had been "harassed" by the cast. On Sunday, he
repeated his call for an apology - and added a dig at the critically acclaimed
show.

"The cast and producers of Hamilton, which I hear is highly overrated, should
immediately apologize to Mike Pence for their terrible behavior," he tweeted.

When prompted by Trump for an apology, Dixon responded on Twitter that
"conversation is not harassment sir" and added that he appreciated Pence's
stopping to listen.

"Hamilton" wasn't the only show that Trump took issue with over the weekend. He
tweeted that "Saturday Night Live" is a "totally one-sided, biased show -
nothing funny at all."

West lashes out, too - at Beyoncé, Jay Z - Just days after telling fans that he
would have voted for Donald Trump, Kanye West delivered another screed Saturday,
this time about Beyoncé and Jay Z at the Sacramento, Calif., stop of his Saint
Pablo Tour.

Captured on video by concertgoers, West told the audience he heard Beyoncé
refused to perform at the MTV Video Music Awards unless she won Video of the
Year over him, and he urged her husband Jay Z to call him.

West said he was putting his life and career at risk by talking to fans "like
this."

Those in attendance said on social media that West then played only a few songs
before ending the concert.

celebrity birthdays

Actor Joseph Campanella is 92. Actor Laurence Luckinbill is 82. Actress Marlo
Thomas is 79. Actress Goldie Hawn is 71. Keyboardist Lonnie Jordan is 68.
Actress Cherry Jones is 60. Actress Nicollette Sheridan is 53. Singer Bjork is
51. Rapper Pretty Lou is 45. TV host Michael Strahan is 45. Singer Carly Rae
Jepsen is 31. Actor Sam Palladio is 29.

From news services

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  In this image made from a video provided by Hamilton LLC, actor
Brandon Victor Dixon who plays Aaron Burr, the nation's third vice president, in
"Hamilton" speaks from the stage after the curtain call in New York, Friday,
Nov. 18, 2016. Vice President-elect Mike Pence is the latest celebrity to attend
the Broadway hit "Hamilton," but the first to get a sharp message from a cast
member from the stage. (Hamilton LLC via AP)  People line-up to see the Broadway
play "Hamilton," Saturday Nov. 19, 2016, in New York. President-elect Donald
Trump demanded an apology from the cast of the hit musical a day after an actor
lectured Vice President-elect Mike Pence about equality, prompting angry
responses from liberals and conservatives. (AP Photo/Bebeto Matthews)  A
protester holds a placard as he waits for Vice President-elect Mike Pence to
leave the Richard Rodgers Theatre after a performance of "Hamilton," in New
York, Friday, Nov. 18, 2016. (AP Photo/Andres Kudacki)  Protesters shout slogans
at Vice President-elect Mike Pence as he leaves the Richard Rodgers Theatre
after a performance of "Hamilton," in New York, Friday, Nov. 18, 2016. (AP
Photo/Andres Kudacki)  Heavily armed police stand guard as a motorcade carrying
Vice President-elect Mike Pence, center, leaves the Richard Rodgers Theatre
after a performance of "Hamilton," in New York, Friday, Nov. 18, 2016. (AP
Photo/Andres Kudacki)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump children's roles blur line between transition, company

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN LEMIRE Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 951 words


NEW YORK - Nearly every morning since their father's stunning victory on
Election Day, three of Donald Trump's grown children walk through the Trump
Tower lobby and board an elevator. But are Don Jr., Ivanka and Eric going to the
campaign office on the fifth floor? Their business offices on the 25th floor?
The president-elect's penthouse on the 56th floor?

That uncertainty highlights the multiple roles the children play for their
father. For the past year, the lines were constantly blurred between political
campaign and business empire, raising questions about a potential conflict of
interest between Trump's White House and his sprawling business interests.

The children are poised to wield incredible influence over their father, even if
they don't follow him to Washington. Trump said consistently during the campaign
that if he won, those children would stay in New York and run his business. But
the three - plus Ivanka's husband, Jared Kushner - were all named to the
transition team's executive committee.

So far, they've been heavily involved in shaping the new administration. They've
sat in on meetings and taken late-night calls from their father. They advocated
for making Reince Priebus, the Republican National Committee chairman, the White
House chief of staff. They counseled against bringing back Corey Lewandowski,
Trump's first campaign manager, who was fired in June on their advice.

On Thursday, Ivanka Trump and Kushner were present for the president-elect's
meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Trump Tower.

Trump has insisted he will build a wall between his White House and his company
by placing his holdings into a blind trust, but with his children as its
trustees. Federal requirements state that independent outsiders must run such
trusts.

"We are in the process of vetting various structures with the goal of the
immediate transfer of management of The Trump Organization and its portfolio of
businesses to Donald Jr., Ivanka and Eric Trump as well as a team of highly
skilled executives," Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks said. She said the structure
"will comply with all applicable rules and regulations."

Trump's company would be the largest business portfolio to belong to a modern
sitting president. Federal ethics rules would allow Trump to run his business
interests from the White House, or, perhaps more likely, influence decisions
made by his children.

That raises concerns about conflicts of interest. For example, Trump could set
domestic policy while making deals abroad that could affect his corporation.

Kellyanne Conway, a senior adviser, disputed the idea that the Trump children's
involvement in the transition could lead to a breach of trust.

"You're presuming that they are doing certain things that they should not be
doing," Conway said. "They are his children. And they've been his business
colleagues for a long period of time. They obviously will support their father
as president."

But the potentially problematic entanglement revealed itself this past week when
Ivanka Trump's company promoted a $10,800 bracelet she wore during a "60
Minutes" interview on CBS. The spokeswoman for the company later apologized.

The children - they were not made available for interviews - are limited in what
formal role they could take in a Trump administration.

Congress passed an anti-nepotism law in 1967 that prohibits the president from
appointing a family member to work in the office or agency they oversee. The
measure was passed as a reaction to President John F. Kennedy appointing his
brother Robert as attorney general.

But the law does not appear to prevent the children - or Kushner, who is one of
Trump's closest aides and is said to be weighing a White House role - from
serving as unpaid advisers or providing informal counsel.

The three grown children - their mother is Ivana Trump, Trump's first wife -
delivered well-received speeches at this summer's Republican National Convention
in which they tried to humanize their father.

Don Jr. and Eric were staples on conservative radio and on the road, trekking to
campaign offices and small rallies across battleground states such as Ohio and
North Carolina. Ivanka Trump, meanwhile, was utilized in some of the campaign's
biggest moments, including introducing her father before his convention speech,
unveiling his family leave plan and campaigning across the crucial Philadelphia
suburbs.

Another daughter, Tiffany Trump, a recent college graduate whose mother is
Trump's second wife, Marla Maples, also made appearances on her father's behalf.
Trump's youngest child, Barron, 10, whose mother is the president-elect's
current wife, Melania, is enrolled at a private school in Manhattan. Trump said
Sunday that Melania Trump and their son would move to Washington after the
school year ended.

For the three eldest Trump children, there were bumps in the road.

Eric and Ivanka were the subject of some embarrassing headlines when it was
revealed that they were not registered to vote in time for their father in the
New York primary. An African big-game safari Eric and Don Jr. took drew
criticism from animal rights activists. And Don Jr. has received criticism for
tweeting images likening Syrian refugees to a poisoned bowl of Skittles candy
and a cartoon character appropriated by white supremacists.

But now they stand poised to be the most influential presidential children in
decades, as recent White House offspring have been far younger than the eldest
Trump children, who are all in their 30s. During the campaign, Eric Trump
insisted that the children's main focus "was the company," but "we'd always be
one phone call away" if needed, the younger Trump told the Associated Press in
May.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Eric Trump, son of President-elect Donald Trump, arrives at Trump
Tower, Thursday, Nov. 17, 2016, in New York. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  Jared
Kushner and his wife Ivanka Trump walk through the lobby of Trump Tower in New
York, Friday, Nov. 18, 2016. (AP Photo/Richard Drew)  Ivanka Trump and her
husband Jared Kushner walk past the Paley Center for Media as they leave the 21
Club after dining with President-elect Donald Trump on Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2016,
in New York. (AP Photo/Kathy Willens)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump, Pence address potential of Romney, Mattis in Cabinet

BYLINE:  By CATHERINE LUCEY and LAURIE KELLMAN Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 674 words


BEDMINSTER, N.J. - Mitt Romney is a key contender to become the nation's next
secretary of state and retired Marine Corps Gen. James Mattis was an
"impressive" prospect for defense secretary, President-elect Donald Trump and
Mike Pence, the vice president-elect, said Sunday.

"Gov. Romney is under active and serious consideration to serve as secretary of
state of the United States," said Pence, who is leading the search for Trump's
Cabinet members, in an interview on CBS's "Face the Nation."

On Sunday, the billionaire tweeted: "General James 'Mad Dog' Mattis, who is
being considered for secretary of defense, was very impressive yesterday. A true
General's General!"

The comments were indications that Trump is looking outside his immediate circle
as he works toward rounding out his foreign policy and national security teams.
On Friday, he named a loyalist, ret. Gen. Michael Flynn, as his national
security adviser. Trump told reporters Sunday that one of his most loyal and
public allies, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, was also a prospect for
secretary of state "and other things." Giuliani at one point had been considered
for attorney general, but Trump gave that job to Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions
of Alabama.

Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 GOP presidential contender,
and Trump exchanged bitter insults during the campaign, and Mattis has not been
considered a Trump confidant. The appointment of more establishment figures
could offer some reassurance to lawmakers and others concerned about Trump's
hard-line positions on immigration and national security and his lack of foreign
policy experience.

But even as Trump and his team discussed pressing issues facing the country and
how to staff the incoming administration, the president-elect's Twitter feed
suggested other issues were also on his mind.

His targets Sunday included retiring Democratic Leader Harry Reid. Trump tweeted
that incoming Senate Democratic Leader Charles Schumer, another media-savvy New
Yorker, was "far smarter" than Reid and "has the ability to get things done."

Meanwhile, Trump received more visitors to his golf club in New Jersey on
Sunday. Besides Giuliani, Trump met with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, his
former transition chairman who was replaced by Pence after the election.

Trump's transition team said GOP presidential rival Rick Perry, the former Texas
governor, was expected to meet with Trump on Monday.

The businessman and president-elect also apparently was considering prospects to
lead the Commerce Department, meeting with billionaire investor Wilbur Ross.

Trump also was making plans to transition his family. He said Sunday that his
wife, Melania, and their 10-year-old son, Barron, would move to Washington when
the school year ends.

Both Romney and Trump put on a show of smiles, a public handshake and a
thumbs-up Saturday, a shift in tone after a year in which Romney attacked Trump
as a "con man" and Trump labeled him a "loser." But the two have started to mend
fences since Trump's victory over Democrat Hillary Clinton.

Trump started filling key administration positions on Friday, picking Sessions
for attorney general and Rep. Mike Pompeo, R-Kansas, to head the CIA, signaling
a sharp rightward shift in U.S. security policy as he begins to form his
Cabinet. Trump also named retired Lt. Gen Michael Flynn as his national security
adviser.

Trump's initial decisions suggest aggressive military involvement in
counterterror strategy and a greater emphasis on Islam's role in stoking
extremism. Sessions is known for hard-line immigration views. Pompeo has said
Muslim leaders are "potentially complicit" in attacks if they do not denounce
violence done in the name of Islam.

Pompeo's nomination to lead the CIA also opens the prospect of the U.S. resuming
torture of detainees. Trump has backed interrogation techniques that President
Barack Obama and Congress have banned, saying the U.S. "should go tougher than
waterboarding."

Sessions and Pompeo would both require Senate confirmation; Flynn would not.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  President-elect Donald Trump gives the thumbs up as he arrives at the
Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse, Sunday, Nov. 20, 2016 in
Bedminster, N.J.. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  President-elect Donald Trump,
center, and Vice President-elect Mike Pence, right, pose with investor Wilbur
Ross at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse, Sunday, Nov. 20,
2016, in Bedminster, N.J.. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  President-elect Donald
Trump, left, talks to media as he and Vice President-elect Mike Pence arrive at
the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse, Sunday, Nov. 20, 2016 in
Bedminster, N.J.. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  President-elect Donald Trump and
Vice President-elect Mike Pence, right, arrive at the Trump National Golf Club
Bedminster clubhouse, Sunday, Nov. 20, 2016 in Bedminster, N.J.. (AP
Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  President-elect Donald Trump gives the thumbs-up as Mitt
Romney leaves Trump National Golf Club Bedminster in Bedminster, N.J., Saturday,
Nov. 19, 2016. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  President-elect Donald Trump and Vice
President-elect Mike Pence pause for photographs as they arrive at the Trump
National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in Bedminster, N.J., Saturday, Nov. 19,
2016. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  Investor Wilbur Ross waves as he arrives to
meet with President-elect Donald Trump at the Trump National Golf Club
Bedminster clubhouse, Sunday, Nov. 20, 2016, in Bedminster, N.J.. (AP
Photo/Carolyn Kaster)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump auditions Cabinet prospects high above Manhattan

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN LEMIRE Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 706 words


NEW YORK - Donald Trump held court high above Manhattan on Monday, receiving a
line of former rivals, longtime allies and TV executives while overseeing a
presidential transition that at times resembles a reality show not unlike the
one he once hosted.

Trump met with nearly a dozen prospective hires, all of whom were paraded in
front of the cameras set up in the Trump Tower lobby as they entered an elevator
to see the president-elect. Out of public view himself, he fell back on his TV
star roots by filming a video that touted his legislative goals once he takes
office.

Trump did not immediately announce any appointments after the meetings, which
came on the heels of a two-day whirlwind of interviews at his golf course in
Bedminster, N.J.

Unlike his predecessors, who often spoke with Cabinet candidates under a cloud
of secrecy, Trump has turned the search into a very public audition process. The
extraordinary exercise took on a routine feel on Monday: First, former
Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown stepped off the gold-plated elevator into the
marble-coated lobby after his meeting, to declare to waiting reporters that he
was "the best person" to become Veterans Affairs secretary.

Next, Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin, a candidate for Interior secretary, did much
the same, striding off the lift to say she had "a wonderful discussion" with
Trump. Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry declined to speak to reporters, but he did
take time for a photo with the Naked Cowboy, the underwear-sporting,
guitar-strumming New York institution who is normally a fixture at Times Square
but has spent recent days camped out at Trump Tower singing about the
president-elect.

Democratic Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, who resigned her post on the Democratic
National Committee after endorsing Bernie Sanders over Hillary Clinton, also met
with Trump but entered and exited out of sight. She later defended crossing
party lines to meet with Trump about U.S. involvement in Syria, saying in a
statement that she would never "play politics with American and Syrian lives."

Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a longtime Trump ally, also arrived with his
wife, Callista, for a meeting.

Senior adviser Kellyanne Conway said of the visitors, "Not all of them will be
in his Cabinet and his federal government, but they are all incredibly important
in offering their points of views, their experience and certainly their vision
of the country."

No one was saying whether Trump would announce more appointments before heading
to Florida for Thanksgiving. He was planning to leave Tuesday or Wednesday to
spend the holiday at his Mar-a-Lago estate, while Vice President-elect Mike
Pence will spend Thanksgiving in Mississippi, where his son, a Marine, is
stationed.

Trump has largely remained out of sight since winning the election, save for a
flurry of brief public appearances over the weekend, often with Pence at his
side, to flash thumbs-ups and provide quick updates on his progress in building
a government. He remained in the upper floors of his skyscraper Monday, seeking
counsel on the phone and interviewing candidates all while keeping an eye on the
cable news coverage of the day's events.

The video he made, expected to be released late Monday, continues the
president-elect's practice of trying to go over the heads of the media and take
his case directly to the American public. Since Election Day, he has twice
ditched the group of reporters designated to follow his movements and has so far
eschewed the traditional news conference held by the president-elect in the days
after winning.

Trump has not held a full-fledged news conference since July.

But the media were clearly on his mind as he met with executives and on-air
personalities from TV networks. He frequently singled out the media - declaring
them "so dishonest" - for criticism during the campaign, but it's not unusual
for presidents to hold off-the-record meetings with journalists when trying to
promote policies or programs.

Among the attendees were NBC anchor Lester Holt and "Meet the Press" host Chuck
Todd, ABC "Good Morning America" host George Stephanopoulos and anchor David
Muir, CBS "Face the Nation" host John Dickerson, CNN's Wolf Blitzer and several
executives at the networks.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich gives the thumps-up as he arrives
at Trump Tower, Monday, Nov. 21, 2016 in New York, to meet with President-elect
Donald Trump. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  Former Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown
talks with media at Trump Tower, Monday, Nov. 21, 2016 in New York. AP
Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin arrives at Trump Tower, Monday,
Nov. 21, 2016 in New York. AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  Kellyanne Conway speaks to
media as she arrives at Trump Tower, Monday, Nov. 21, 2016 in New York. AP
Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  President-elect Donald Trump, center, and Vice
President-elect Mike Pence, right, pose with investor Wilbur Ross at the Trump
National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse, Sunday, Nov. 20, 2016, in Bedminster,
N.J.. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Pence, who touts openness, tries to stop document release

BYLINE:  By BRIAN SLODYSKO Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 325 words


INDIANAPOLIS - Lawyers for Republican Mike Pence, who is Indiana governor and
the vice president-elect, argued in court Monday that the state's judicial
branch has no authority to require him to comply with Indiana's public records
law.

The civil case before Indiana's Court of Appeals was brought by Indianapolis
attorney William Groth, who sued in 2015 after the Pence administration denied a
request for unredacted records, including a document related to Republican
efforts to stop President Barack Obama's immigration executive order.

Pence has long presented himself as a champion of a free press and the First
Amendment. That's a contrast to President-elect Donald Trump, who made attacks
on reporters a hallmark of his campaign and refused to release his tax records
as other modern presidential candidates have done.

In March, Pence vetoed a bill that would have exempted private universities from
releasing some police records, calling it "a disservice to the public and an
unnecessary barrier to transparency."

And on the campaign trail he aggressively criticized Democrat Hillary Clinton
for refusing to release emails sent from a private server she maintained while
secretary of state.

But Pence's gubernatorial administration has argued against the public release
of emails and other documents that could shed light on his tenure as governor.

In some cases, his office has withheld documents, delayed responses or flatly
denied public records requests filed by the Associated Press and other news
organizations.

On Monday, Pence attorney Joseph Chapelle told the judges that the separation of
powers established under the state's constitution should prevent the court
system from forcing Pence and his immediate staff to comply with the open
records law if they are sued.

"Inquiry into the personal papers of the governor would (interfere) with the
affairs with of the governor's office," Chapelle said.

"He's different than other state agencies."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  President-elect Donald Trump, left, calls out to media as he and Vice
President-elect Mike Pence appear at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster
clubhouse, Sunday, Nov. 20, 2016, in Bedminster, N.J.. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)
President-elect Donald Trump, left, talks to media as he and Vice
President-elect Mike Pence arrive at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster
clubhouse, Sunday, Nov. 20, 2016 in Bedminster, N.J.. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For Trump and GOP, 'Obamacare' repeal is complex and risky

BYLINE:  By ALAN FRAM Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 321 words


WASHINGTON - Here's the idea: Swiftly pass a repeal of President Barack Obama's
signature Affordable Care Act health care law, perhaps soon enough for Donald
Trump to sign it the day he takes the presidential oath. Then approve
legislation restructuring the nation's huge and convoluted health care system -
despite Republican divisions, Democratic opposition and millions of jittery
constituents.

What could go wrong?

With Republicans controlling the White House and Congress in January, they're
faced with delivering on their longtime promise to repeal and replace Obamacare.
Here are hurdles they'll face:

SPEED VS. DELIBERATION

Trump and congressional Republicans will be under intense pressure from their
core conservative supporters to repeal the 2010 health care law - and fast.
After all, Congress already sent Obama a repeal bill last January, which he
vetoed.

But this process is likely to take at least months.

While the replacement effort is underway, Republicans will risk aggravating as
many as 30 million people who are covered by the law or buy policies with prices
affected by its insurance marketplace.

A SOLUTION

Nothing's been decided, but here's one likely scenario:

The new Congress, which convenes Jan. 3, tries to quickly approve legislation
repealing the law, maybe completing it by Trump's Jan. 20 inauguration or soon
after. But the repeal would not take effect until the future, perhaps a year
later, to give lawmakers time to fashion a replacement. The version Obama vetoed
had a two-year delay.

Vice President-elect Mike Pence said on "Fox News Sunday" that Trump "wants to
focus out of the gate on repealing Obamacare and beginning the process of
replacing Obamacare."

Because Republicans will control the Senate by just 52-48, Congress will first
have to approve special budget procedures to prevent Democrats from stopping
repeal legislation by filibuster. Bill-killing filibusters require 60 votes to
end.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this March 23, 2010 file photo, President Barack Obama signs
the health care bill in the East Room of the White House in Washington. Here's
the idea: Swiftly pass a repeal of President Barack Obama's health care law,
perhaps so Donald Trump can sign it the day he takes the presidential oath. Then
approve new legislation restructuring the nation's huge and convoluted health
care system despite Republican divisions, Democratic opposition and millions of
jittery constituents. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File)  FILE - In this Nov.
9, 2016 file photo, President-elect Donald Trump speaks during a rally in New
York. Here's the idea: Swiftly pass a repeal of President Barack Obama's health
care law, perhaps so Donald Trump can sign it the day he takes the presidential
oath. Then approve new legislation restructuring the nation's huge and
convoluted health care system despite Republican divisions, Democratic
opposition and millions of jittery constituents. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump victory brings 'alt-right' into full view

BYLINE:  By JAY REEVES Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 535 words


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. - Donald Trump's election is bringing to the fore a strain of
race-based politics once so far out of the mainstream few had even heard of it.

With an ideology that's a mix of racism, white nationalism and old-fashioned
populism, the "alt-right" has burst into the collective consciousness since
members showed up at the Republican National Convention to celebrate Trump's
nomination last summer.

When one of its leaders, Richard Spencer, gave a speech in Washington last
Saturday at an alt-right conference attended by a couple of hundred people, The
Atlantic magazine was there with a video camera that captured the Nazi-style
salutes of people in his audience.

"Hail Trump, hail our people, hail victory!" Spencer said to cheers that were
shown in video snippets that have since been viewed hundreds of thousands of
times online.

What does Spencer mean by "our people"? Whites.

Spencer directs the National Policy Institute, which describes itself as
"dedicated to the heritage, identity and future of people of European descent in
the United States and around the world."

It is Spencer who is widely credited with coming up with the term "alt-right,"
or "alternative-right," about eight years go.

While members of the movement are getting more attention than ever, the head of
the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism said Tuesday that there is not
much new in its message.

"The hatred and bigotry that is at the core of alt-right ideology has not
changed," center director Oren Segal said in an interview conducted by private
messaging. "What has changed is the name, their packaging and the stated belief
that they have a champion in the highest office."

On Tuesday, the president-elect distanced himself from the alt-right movement,
saying he did not want to "energize" the white supremacist and nationalist
groups.

"I disavow and condemn them," Trump said during a wide-ranging interview with
staff members of The New York Times.

Trump has faced continued criticism over his choosing Steve Bannon, who managed
the final months of the billionaire businessman's presidential campaign, as
chief White House strategist. Bannon was previously the leader of Breitbart
News, an unapologetically conservative outlet that Bannon has described as a
"platform for the alt-right."

At the Times on Tuesday, Trump said Breitbart "is just a publication" that
"covers subjects on the right" and is "certainly a much more conservative paper,
to put it mildly, than The New York Times."

Richard Cohen, president of the Alabama-based Southern Poverty Law Center, an
organization that tracks hate groups, said the alt-right is "a rebranding of
white nationalism." Cohen called it "the energy behind the avalanche of racist
and anti-Semitic harassment that plagued social media platforms for the entire
presidential campaign."

Members of the alt-right, including Spencer, are vocal in their support of
Trump.

In an interview with The Associated Press in Cleveland, where members of the
alt-right obtained credentials to attend the Republican National Convention,
Spencer painted himself and Trump as people who think alike.

"Do you think it's a coincidence that everybody like me loves Trump and supports
him?" he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  In this Nov. 18, 2016, photo, Richard Spencer attends the largest
white nationalist and Alt Right conference of the year, in Washington. CNN and
host Jake Tapper have both apologized for an on-screen banner that Tapper said
was "unacceptable" and "horrified" him when it appeared during his show on
Monday, Nov. 21, 2016. The offending phrase appeared during a discussion among
Jim Sciutto, subbing for Tapper on "The Lead," and two journalists about
President-elect Donald Trump's support from the alt-right. The segment focused
on white nationalist leader Spencer, whose anti-Semitic declarations Sciutto
characterized as "hate-filled garbage." (Linda Davidson/The Washington Post via
AP)  In this Nov. 18, 2016, photo, Richard Spencer, left, talks to the media at
an Alt Right conference hosted by the National Policy Institute in Washington.
CNN and host Jake Tapper have both apologized for an on-screen banner that
Tapper said was "unacceptable" and "horrified" him when it appeared during his
show on Monday, Nov. 21, 2016. The offending phrase appeared during a discussion
among Jim Sciutto, subbing for Tapper on "The Lead," and two journalists about
President-elect Donald Trump's support from the alt-right. The segment focused
on white nationalist leader Spencer, whose anti-Semitic declarations Sciutto
characterized as "hate-filled garbage." (Linda Davidson/The Washington Post via
AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Senate trade-off: More Obama judges, Trump gets nominees

BYLINE:  By MARY CLARE JALONICK Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 595 words


WASHINGTON - Republicans are gleeful over Democratic-engineered rule changes
that will make it easier for President-elect Donald Trump to get his Cabinet
nominees through the Senate. Yet Democrats see a lasting upside from what they
did: allowing President Barack Obama to shape the federal judiciary for years to
come.

Democrats in 2013 scaled back the power of the Senate minority to throw
roadblocks in front of a president's nominees. After that, the Senate confirmed
nearly 100 federal judges nominated by Obama, bringing to 329 the number of
judicial nominees confirmed during Obama's term in office.

The impact of those lifetime appointments will be especially felt on the federal
appeals court in Washington, often called the second-most important court after
the Supreme Court because it hears many cases on environmental and other
regulations. Judges picked by Republican presidents had dominated the court, but
now Democratic appointees hold a 7-4 advantage. Obama has put four judges there,
including three after the rules changes.

Outgoing Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid engineered the changes, dubbed the
"nuclear option" because of the intensity they could add to partisanship, after
Republicans blocked many of Obama's nominees. Even with a Republican majority in
the Senate, the Nevada Democrat says he would do it again.

"The nuclear option lets presidents show their true colors and guarantees a
nominee a fair up-or-down vote," Reid said in a statement this week. "If
Republicans want to go on record supporting radicals, that's their decision and
they will have to live with it."

Nan Aron, the president of the liberal judicial advocacy group Alliance for
Justice, says that if the rules hadn't been changed, Trump would now be filling
seats on the D.C. circuit and other courts.

"They will undoubtedly hear challenges to Trump's regulatory agenda, challenges
to executive orders," Aron said.

In November 2013, the rules changes reduced from 60 to a simple majority,
usually 51, the number of votes needed to end filibusters, or procedural
roadblocks, on nominations. Republicans are on track to hold 52 seats next year,
meaning they won't need any Democratic votes to confirm the new Cabinet - or
confirm federal judges whom Trump is expected to nominate.

At the time of the changes, Republican leader Mitch McConnell warned Democrats
that the strategy could backfire.

"I say to my friends on the other side of the aisle, you will regret this, and
you may regret it a lot sooner than you think," McConnell said on the Senate
floor.

Sen. Chuck Schumer, the New York Democrat who will replace Reid as minority
leader, says the pressure will now be on Republicans, "many of whom had serious
qualms with the (presidential) campaign that was run, to determine whether these
nominees will be fit to lead these agencies."

For Trump's nominees to run into trouble, they will have to anger fellow
Republicans. That may be the case for his nominee for CIA director, Kansas Rep.
Mike Pompeo. Pompeo has rejected accusations that U.S. intelligence and military
personnel were "torturers" for harshly interrogating terrorism suspects captured
after 9/11. He called the personnel "patriots."

Republican Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky said on CBS's "Face the Nation" last
Sunday that he wants to know more about Pompeo's views on torture and also
whether he supports expanding powers of the National Security Agency.

"He's going to have to also answer, to my liking, whether or not he's still for
torture, whether or not he's for waterboarding," Paul said. "That's important."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Nov. 16, 2016 file photo, Senate Minority Leader Harry
Reid of Nev. speaks during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington.
Republicans are gleeful over Democratic-engineered rule changes that will make
it easier for President-elect Donald Trump to get his Cabinet nominees through
the Senate. Yet Democrats offer no regrets because of one lasting upside:
Judges. Reid, who engineered the changes dubbed "the nuclear option" after
Republicans blocked many of Obama's nominees, says he would do it again. (AP
Photo/Alex Brandon)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Americans who live near border say Trump's wall is unwelcome

BYLINE:  By FRANK BAJAK Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 533 words


LOS EBANOS, Texas - Forget Donald Trump's Great Wall.

The people who live in the bustling, fertile Rio Grande Valley, where the U.S.
border meets the Gulf of Mexico, think a "virtual wall" of surveillance
technology makes a lot more sense. It's already in wide use and expanding.

Erecting a 40-foot concrete barrier across the entire 1,954-mile frontier with
Mexico, as Trump promised during the presidential campaign, collides head-on
with multiple realities: geology, fierce local resistance and the question of
who pays the bill.

People cackled at Trump's idea that Mexico would willingly deliver the billions
required. Mexican officials say they won't. So few locals were surprised when
the president-elect seemed to soften his position five days after the election,
saying the wall could include some fencing.

"The wall is not going to stop anyone," Jorge Garcia said.

Garcia expected to lose access to most of his 30-acre riverside ranch after the
U.S. Border Fence Act was enacted a decade ago under President George W. Bush.

Under the law, 652 miles of border barrier were built, mostly in Arizona. The
110 miles of fences and fortified levees that went up in Texas are broken lines,
some as much as a mile and a half from the river.

The Garcias believe they and the rest of Los Ebanos' villagers were spared
because the erosion-prone clay soil is simply too unstable.

Geology conspires against wall-building up and down the Rio Grande Valley. Its
accomplices are a boundary water treaty with Mexico and endangered-species laws.
Catwalks and tunnels had to be built into border barriers to accommodate ocelots
and jaguarundi, two species of wild cat.

The plentiful breaks in the border barrier, meanwhile, include an entire flank
of the River Bend golf club and resort in Brownsville - "gaps of privilege" for
the well-connected, according to one critic.

A poll conducted in Southwest border cities in May found 72 percent of residents
opposed to a wall. The Cronkite News-Univision-Dallas Morning News poll had a
margin of error of 2.6 percentage points.

Local politicians have found inventive ways to make wall-building palatable. A
20-mile stretch in Hidalgo County consisted of a fortified levee topped with a
fence. In 2010, that levee held back flooding. The cost was about $10 million a
mile, though.

In the Nov. 8 election, only three Texas border counties - all sparsely
populated - went for Trump. The rest are solidly Democratic and back President
Barack Obama's more lenient immigration policies.

The U.S. side of the border is quite safe, said Monica Weisberg-Stewart,
security expert for the Texas Border Coalition, a consortium of regional
leaders. "We are not in a war zone."

In fact, cross-border trade has been booming. In 2014, more than $246 billion
worth of goods and 3.7 million trucks crossed the Texas-Mexico border, according
to the coalition.

While much of the border's Mexican side has been afflicted by drug
cartel-related violence, crime in the Rio Grande Valley, home to 1.3 million
people, has been consistently lower than in other Texas cities.

Meanwhile, the number of border apprehensions is down from a peak of 1.6 million
in 2000 to 409,000 in the year ending in September.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  In this Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, photo, a bird rests on a section of
18-foot high border fence in Brownsville, Texas. The idea of a concrete wall
spanning the entire 1,954-mile southwest frontier collides head-on with multiple
realities, like a looping Rio Grande, fierce local resistance, and cost. (AP
Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Sunday, Nov. 13, 2016, photo, a young migrants girl
from Central American newly released after processing by the U.S. Customs and
Border Patrol is fitted shoes at the Sacred Heart Community Center in the Rio
Grande Valley border city of McAllen, Texas, Sunday, Nov. 13, 2016. (AP
Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Sunday, Nov. 13, 2016, photo, Central American migrants
newly released after processing by the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol look for
clothing at the Sacred Heart Community Center in the Rio Grande Valley border
city of McAllen, Texas, Sunday, Nov. 13, 2016. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this
Saturday, Nov. 12, 2016, photo, Isac Ramos fishes at a ranch on the banks of the
Rio Grande in Los Ebanos, Texas. The area would be cut of if a border wall is
build in the area. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, photo, a
tethered Aerostat is used for surveillance in La Joya, Texas. Since 2013, the
Border Patrol has also had five aerostats in the valley that the military had
used in Afghanistan. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Sunday, Nov. 13, 2016, photo,
Luis Carlos, a construction worker from Honduras who is headed to Miami with his
son, wears an ankle monitor as he sits at the Sacred Heart Community Center in
the Rio Grande Valley border city of McAllen, Texas after he was released after
processing by U.S. Customs and Border Patrol. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this
Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2016, photo, a U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agent searches
for suspected illegal immigrants passing through the area in Hidalgo, Texas. The
idea of a concrete wall spanning the entire 1,954-mile southwest frontier
collides head-on with multiple realities, like a looping Rio Grande, fierce
local resistance, and cost. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Sunday, Nov. 13, 2016,
photo, a Texas Parks and Wildlife boat patrols along the Rio Grande near
Granjeno, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2016, photo, a
U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agent walks with suspected immigrants caught
entering the country illegally along the Rio Grande in Hidalgo, Texas. (AP
Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2016, photo, a U.S. Customs and
Border Patrol agent follows the trail of suspected illegal immigrants passing
through the area near Edinburg, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Tuesday,
Nov. 15, 2016, photo, a U.S. Air and Marine Huey search for immigrants who
entered the county illegally on a ranch near Edinburg, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric
Gay)  In this Saturday, Nov. 12, 2016 photo, signs mark the entrance to a border
crossing in Los Ebanos, Texas. The idea of a concrete wall spanning the entire
1,954-mile southwest frontier collides head-on with multiple realities, like a
looping Rio Grande, fierce local resistance, and cost. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In
this Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2016, photo, a U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agent
searches for suspected illegal immigrants passing through the area in Hidalgo,
Texas. The idea of a concrete wall spanning the entire 1,954-mile southwest
frontier collides head-on with multiple realities, like a looping Rio Grande,
fierce local resistance, and cost. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Tuesday, Nov.
15, 2016, photo, a U.S. Air and Marine Huey searches for immigrants who entered
the county illegally on a ranch near Edinburg, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In
this Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2016, photo, a U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agent
works with a suspected immigrant entering the country illegally along the Rio
Grande in Hidalgo, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2016,
photo, U.S. Air and Marine prepare a Huey for a mission to search for immigrants
who entered the county illegally, in McAllen, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In
this Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2016, photo, a U.S. Customs and Border Patrol unit
follows the trail of suspected illegal immigrants passing through the area near
Edinburg, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, photo, a
tethered Aerostat is used for surveillance in La Joya, Texas. Since 2013, the
Border Patrol has also had five aerostats in the valley that the military had
used in Afghanistan. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Sunday, Nov. 13, 2016, photo,
a U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agent passes birdwatchers Rayborn and Nancy
Hill along a section of border wall in Hidalgo, Texas. The idea of a concrete
wall spanning the entire 1,954-mile southwest frontier collides head-on with
multiple realities, like a looping Rio Grande, fierce local resistance, and
cost. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2016, photo, a U.S.
Customs and Border Patrol agent drags a home-made ladder found hidden near a sec
ion of border wall near the Rio Grande in Hidalgo, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)
In this Monday, Nov. 14, 2016, photo, a carrier delivers mail along a section of
border fence in Brownsville, Texas. The idea of a concrete wall spanning the
entire 1,954-mile southwest frontier collides head-on with multiple realities,
like a looping Rio Grande, fierce local resistance, and cost. (AP Photo/Eric
Gay)  In this Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2016, photo, a U.S. Customs and Border Patrol
passes a Remote Surveillance Camera Systems tower stationed along a section of
border in Brownsville, Texas. Since tower-mounted Border Patrol video
surveillance cameras began going up in 1999 in the Brownsville area, illegal
cross-border "traffic dried up by 85-90 percent," said Johnny Meadors, the
sector's assistant chief for technology. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Sunday,
Nov. 13, 2016, photo, a U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agent drives along a
section of border wall in Hidalgo, Texas. The idea of a concrete wall spanning
the entire 1,954-mile southwest frontier collides head-on with multiple
realities, like a looping Rio Grande, fierce local resistance, and cost. (AP
Photo/Eric Gay)  In this Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2016, photo, U.S. Air and Marine
prepare a Huey for a mission to search for immigrants who entered the county
illegally, in McAllen, Texas. (AP Photo/Eric Gay)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Drill, baby, drill? Election reignites offshore-oil debate

BYLINE:  By PATRICK WHITTLE Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 457 words


The controversy over drilling for oil in the Atlantic Ocean has been reignited
by the election of Donald Trump, and environmentalists and coastal businesses
say it could be the first major fault line that divides them from the new
president.

The administration of President Barack Obama has moved to restrict access to
offshore oil drilling leases in the Atlantic, as well as off Alaska. Commercial
oil production has never happened off the East Coast - and environmentalists
consider that a major victory during Obama's tenure.

But President-elect Trump has said that he intends to use all available fuel
reserves for energy self-sufficiency - and that it's time to be opening up
offshore drilling.

While supporters say that expanded oil exploration is poised to become one of
Trump's signature accomplishments, environmentalists and other opponents see oil
drilling policy as a looming conflict. Jacqueline Savitz, vice president of the
ocean conservationist group Oceana, said she fears a return to the hard-fought
struggles environmentalists faced with the previous Republican administration.

"We're hoping we're not about to fall back into the 'drill, baby, drill' way of
thinking," she said. "Offshore drilling in the Atlantic is not a good
investment."

The American Petroleum Institute, a key voice of the oil and gas industries, has
long said more aggressive drilling is needed for the U.S. to remain a world
leader in energy production. The group accused Obama in May of lacking a
long-term "vision" for fossil fuels extraction; its leaders say that Trump's
presidency represents a new dawn and that they intend to hold him to his word
about fossil fuels.

One of Trump's favorites to lead the Environmental Protection Agency is Myron
Ebell, director of the Center for Energy and Environment at the Competitive
Enterprise Institute and a prominent rejecter of the scientific consensus on
climate change. He is a longtime ally of the petroleum industry and a critic of
the agency he would lead.

Trump's favorites for energy secretary include Oklahoma oil billionaire Harold
Hamm and drilling proponent Rep. Kevin Cramer, R-N.D.

A number of coastal business owners and residents have taken stands against
Atlantic drilling, saying it would endanger key industries, such as commercial
fishing and tourism. Frank Knapp, a South Carolina businessman who is the
co-founder of the 12,000-member Business Alliance for Protecting the Atlantic
Coast, said they'll fight any attempts to drill once Trump takes over.

"I don't know what his personal convictions are, but I do know ... a Republican
Congress wants to drill every place they can, including off the Atlantic Coast,
and we're very concerned that they will push Trump to accomplish that," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Jan. 31, 2016 file photo, Democratic U.S. Sen. Bob
Menendez addresses a large rally in Asbury Park, N.J., opposing federal plans
that would allow oil and gas drilling in the Atlantic Ocean. The Obama
administration has moved to restrict access to offshore oil drilling leases in
the Atlantic, as well as off Alaska. But President-elect Trump has said that he
intends to open up offshore drilling, and environmentalists and coastal
businesses say it could be the first major fault line that divides them from the
new president. (AP Photo/Mel Evans, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump win could give Israel freer hand with Palestinians

BYLINE:  By VIVIAN SALAMA Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A25

LENGTH: 515 words


WASHINGTON - Donald Trump's presidential victory has dimmed hopes for reviving
the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, and analysts say Israel may be given
carte blanche from his administration.

American presidents have long struck a delicate balance in the conflict,
stressing the close U.S. friendship and lavishing the Jewish state with aid. But
recent presidents also have tried to negotiate, and they have called out Israel
for actions seen as undermining peace efforts, such as expanding settlements in
the occupied West Bank.

Trump's role can't be easily predicted.

A foreign policy novice, the billionaire businessman takes pride in his
deal-making skills and says he'd love the challenge of negotiating a Mideast
agreement. He told the New York Times on Monday that it "would be such a great
achievement." He said his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, an observant Jew and a
close adviser, might help make that happen.

Last December, Trump told the Associated Press that he wanted to be "very
neutral" and try to get both sides together. But his tone became decidedly more
pro-Israel as the campaign progressed. He has spoken disparagingly of
Palestinians, saying they have been "taken over" by or are condoning militant
groups. Some of his top aides challenge the legitimacy of Palestinian demands
for a state and have claimed that the Palestinians are a made-up people.

That has cast doubt on whether he would ever question Israeli actions or even
try to serve as a neutral broker.

"Trump's administration may take a totally hands-off approach," said Yousef
Munayyer, a political analyst and executive director of the U.S. Campaign for
Palestinian Rights. "Israel would have free reign to dominate the Palestinians
forever and ever if there is no external involvement."

David Makovsky of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy said the
volatility of the Middle East and of American political parties after a grueling
campaign have made "the conclusion of a two-state solution very unlikely."

Some senior Israeli officials share that view.

Cabinet Minister Naftali Bennett, head of the pro-settler Jewish Home party,
said after Trump's Nov. 8 election that "the era of a Palestinian state are
over." Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman suggested Israel could cut a deal with
Trump allowing expanded construction in major settlements while freezing
building in isolated parts of the West Bank. That would be a sharp break from
policy under President Barack Obama.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been more cautious, congratulating Trump
but giving no indication on whether he will now change his policies.

Previous administrations have given varying amounts of leeway to Israel on the
issue of settlements but also have pushed for the two-state solution. President
Bill Clinton helped broker the Oslo Accord, attempting to establish a framework
to resolve the conflict. President George W. Bush launched a plan that endorsed
an independent Palestinian state existing peacefully alongside Israel. Both
approaches fizzled, and two rounds of peace talks during the Obama years quickly
collapsed.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this March 21, 2016 file photo, Donald Trump speaks at the
2016 American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) Policy Conference in
Washington. Trump's victory in the U.S. presidential election could set back
prospects for a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestinian conflict, with
analysts saying Israel may be given carte blanche under a Trump administration.
(AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

AP Explains: 5 Trump business ties that pose conflicts

BYLINE:  By BERNARD CONDON Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A20

LENGTH: 710 words


NEW YORK - After Ivanka Trump appeared on CBS's "60 Minutes" wearing a $10,800
bracelet from her jewelry line, someone at her company sent photos to fashion
writers to drum up publicity. Criticism erupted over the impropriety of
profiting off the presidency, and the company apologized.

If only the bracelet brouhaha were the end of it.

Experts on government ethics are warning President-elect Donald Trump that he'll
never shake suspicions of a clash between his private interests and the public
good if he doesn't sell off his vast holdings, which include roughly 500
companies in more than a dozen countries.

They say just the appearance of conflicts is likely to tie up the new
administration in investigations and lawsuits, stoked perhaps by angry tweets.

"People are itching to sue Donald Trump and stick him under oath," said Richard
Painter, chief White House ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush.

Trump's company, The Trump Organization, had no comment on the conflicts other
than a statement reiterating its plans to transfer control of the company to
three of the president-elect's adult children.

Painter doesn't think that goes far enough. In a letter to Trump last week, he
joined watchdog groups and lawyers from Democratic and Republican
administrations in predicting "inescapable" conflicts .

A look at five areas where conflicts may arise:

NEW HOTEL

For use of the government-owned Old Post Office for his new Washington hotel,
Trump agreed on annual rent to the government in a contract that was signed more
than three years ago.

In addition to base rent, the Trump agreed to annual payments based on various
financial measures of how well the hotel is doing. Steven Schooner, a professor
of government procurement law at George Washington University who has studied
the contract, said such payments typically required drawn-out negotiations each
year.

"How can anyone expect a government employee to negotiate with the Trump family
at arm's length and treat the Trump family like any other contractor?" Schooner
asks.

Schooner thinks Trump should terminate the contract because, even if the Trump
family acts honorably, the appearance of a conflict will spread doubt throughout
the contracting system. Federal rules prohibit government employees and elected
officials from striking contracting deals with the government for just this
reason, though the president is exempted.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Trump's extensive operations abroad raise the possibility that his foreign
policy could be shaped by his business interests, and vice versa. Trump has
struck real estate deals in South Korea, the Philippines, Indonesia, Uruguay,
Panama, India and Turkey, among other countries.

Kenneth Gross, of political law at the firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom, said Trump's business ties would raise suspicions that he was getting
special deals abroad because he was president and that this ran the risk of
violating the Emolument Clause. That section of the U.S. Constitution forbids
public officials from receiving gifts from foreign governments and
foreign-controlled companies without the consent of Congress.

"He can't avoid conflicts," said Gross, "unless he sells his assets."

TRUMP LENDER

One of Trump's biggest lenders is Deutsche Bank, a German giant in settlement
negotiations with the Department of Justice on its role in the mortgage blowup
that triggered the 2008 financial crisis. The hit to Deutsche could be
substantial, with the government reportedly demanding $14 billion.

Will a Justice Department under Trump go easy on the bank? Trump will nominate
the head of that agency, too.

One potential response is for Trump to make sure the Deutsche case is handled by
career civil servants at Justice and that any appointee such as the attorney
general is recused.

More than 300 positions at Justice are currently held by presidential
appointees.

TAX AUDIT

Trump has cited a long-running audit by the Internal Revenue Service in refusing
to release his tax returns. If he is under scrutiny, it's not surprising. In his
Oct. 9 debate with Hillary Clinton, Trump confirmed he used a $916 million loss
in 1995 to avoid paying federal taxes for years.

The president nominates the commissioner of the IRS who, assuming the Senate
approves, serves for five years.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Oct. 26, 2016, file photo, Republican presidential
candidate Donald Trump, accompanied by, from left, Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump,
Trump, Melania Trump, Tiffany Trump and Ivanka Trump, speaks during the grand
opening of the Trump International Hotel-Old Post Office in Washington. Experts
on government ethics are warning President-elect Donald Trump that he'll never
shake suspicions of a clash between his private interests and the public good if
he doesn't sell off his vast holdings, which include roughly 500 companies in
more than a dozen countries. They say just the appearance of conflicts is likely
to tie up the new administration in investigations, lawsuits and squabbles. (AP
Photo/ Evan Vucci, File)  FILE - This Monday, Sept. 12, 2016, file photo, shows
the exterior of the Trump International Hotel in downtown Washington. Experts on
government ethics are warning President-elect Donald Trump that he'll never
shake suspicions of a clash between his private interests and the public good if
he doesn't sell off his vast holdings, which include roughly 500 companies in
more than a dozen countries. They say just the appearance of conflicts is likely
to tie up the new administration in investigations, lawsuits and squabbles. (AP
Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais, File)  FILE - This Oct. 30, 2014, file photo
shows the Deutsche Bank headquarters in Frankfurt, Germany. Experts on
government ethics are warning President-elect Donald Trump that he'll never
shake suspicions of a clash between his private interests and the public good if
he doesn't sell off his vast holdings, which include roughly 500 companies in
more than a dozen countries. They say just the appearance of conflicts is likely
to tie up the new administration in investigations, lawsuits and squabbles. One
of Trump's biggest lenders is Deutsche Bank, a German giant in settlement
negotiations with the Department of Justice on its role in the mortgage blowup
that triggered the 2008 financial crisis. (AP Photo/Michael Probst, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

The military parade for Donald Trump has come early

BYLINE:  By ROBERT BURNS Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A15

LENGTH: 710 words


WASHINGTON - The military parade for Donald Trump has come early. Two months
before Inauguration Day festivities, an extraordinary number of recently retired
generals, including some who clashed with President Barack Obama's
administration, are marching to the president-elect's doorstep for job
interviews.

It's not unusual for an incoming administration to consider a retired general
for a top position such as CIA director. But Trump has turned to retired
officers so publicly and in such large numbers that it raises questions about
the proper balance of military and civilian advice in a White House led by a
commander in chief with no defense or foreign policy experience.

The tilt toward military officials may reflect a limited pool of civilian
options. Many officials from previous Republican administrations politically
disowned Trump during the campaign, calling him unqualified. And Trump suggested
he wouldn't want many of them, as he vowed to "drain the swamp" by running
establishment figures out of town.

Robert Goldich, a retired government defense analyst who has watched
administrations for 44 years, said Trump's focus on retired generals might be
unprecedented.

The only one announced for a top job thus far is Michael Flynn, a retired
three-star Army general. Trump appointed Flynn as his national security adviser,
a post that is central to a president's decision-making process. Flynn was
forced out as Defense Intelligence Agency director in 2014. Afterward, he
strongly criticized the Obama administration's approach to fighting the Islamic
State group and threw his support to Trump.

Among others under consideration are two retired four-star Marine generals -
James Mattis for defense secretary and John Kelly for homeland security
secretary. Other names surfacing include retired Army Gen. Jack Keane and David
Petraeus, the retired four-star general who was Obama's CIA director in 2011-12.
Petraeus resigned amid disclosure that he had an affair with his biographer and
shared highly classified information with her.

In remarks to The New York Times on Tuesday, Trump spoke about the Pentagon post
in ways that offer insight into why he is attracted to former generals such as
Mattis.

"I think it's time maybe, it's time for a general," Trump said, suggesting he
favored a military mindset. "Look what's going on. We don't win, we can't beat
anybody."

Kelly retired this year after a storied career capped by commanding the U.S.
Southern Command, where he differed with the White House over closing the
Guantanamo Bay prison and expressed doubts about the administration's moves to
open all combat jobs to women.

Bing West, a Vietnam War veteran and former assistant secretary of defense, said
Trump's outreach to retired generals was wise.

"Our country is fighting a long war. It's common sense to seek the experience of
those who have proven they know how to fight," he said in an email exchange.

The concern about undue military influence derives from a long U.S. tradition of
civilian control of the military, which is the basis for a ban on active-duty
officers' running the Pentagon. The Constitution affirms civilian control by
making the president the commander in chief and giving Congress the authority to
declare war and fund the military.

The appointment of too many generals to high civilian positions could prompt
fear that Trump is on a path to militarizing U.S. foreign policy or giving the
military too much sway in decisions about war and peace.

But that view was rejected by Richard Fontaine, president of the Center for a
New American Security, a Washington think tank. In an interview, he noted that
it was President George W. Bush's civilian advisers who pushed hardest to launch
the 2003 Iraq invasion.

"In my experience, veterans have been less likely than the civilians to advocate
for military intervention abroad," said Fontaine.

Still, some retired generals are leery of Trump stacking his national security
team with warriors.

"The biggest fear is too many generals in politics. That's not a good thing,"
said Mark Hertling, a retired three-star Army general who opposed Trump. "But
given the lack of knowledge of a president who knows nothing about diplomacy or
the military, they might provide some very good advice."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Nov. 17, 2016 file photo, Retired Lt. Gen Michael Flynn
talks to media as he arrives at Trump Tower in New York. The military parade for
Donald Trump has come early. Two months before Inauguration Day festivities, an
extraordinary number of recently retired generals, including a few who clashed
with President Barack Obama's administration, are marching to the
president-elect's doorstep for job interviews. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster, File)
FILE - In this Nov. 10, 2016 file photo, President-elect Donald Trump speaks
during his meeting with President Barack Obama in the Oval Office of the White
House in Washington. The military parade for Donald Trump has come early. Two
months before Inauguration Day festivities, an extraordinary number of recently
retired generals, including a few who clashed with President Barack Obama's
administration, are marching to the president-elect's doorstep for job
interviews. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais, File)  FILE - In this Sept. 22,
2015 file photo, David Petraeus testifies on Capitol Hill in Washington. The
military parade for Donald Trump has come early. Two months before Inauguration
Day festivities, an extraordinary number of recently retired generals, including
a few who clashed with President Barack Obama's administration, are marching to
the president-elect's doorstep for job interviews. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump taps billionaire investor Ross for commerce secretary

BYLINE:  By JOSH BOAK Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 829 words


WASHINGTON - Wilbur Ross, the billionaire investor considered the "king of
bankruptcy" for buying beaten-down companies with the potential to deliver
profits, is President-elect Donald Trump's choice for commerce secretary, a
senior transition official said.

The official isn't authorized to publicly discuss the matter and requested
anonymity.

Reputed by Forbes to be worth nearly $3 billion, Ross would represent the
interests of U.S. businesses domestically and abroad as the head at Commerce.
His department would be among those tasked with carrying out the Trump
administration's stated goal of protecting U.S. workers and challenging decades
of globalization that largely benefited multinational corporations.

A specialist in corporate turnarounds, Ross buys distressed or bankrupt
companies at steep discounts, then seeks to shave costs and generate profits.
Some of those cost reductions have come from altering pay and benefits for
workers.

With a Florida home down the road from Trump's Mar-a-Lago retreat, Ross, 78,
played a role in crafting and selling the president-elect's tax-cut and
infrastructure plans. Ross has suggested that much of America is disgruntled
because the economy has left middle-class workers behind and says Trump
represents a shift to a "less politically correct direction."

"Part of the reason why I'm supporting Trump is that I think we need a more
radical, new approach to government - at least in the U.S. - from what we've had
before," Ross told CNBC in June, referring to Trump's blunt tone and sweeping
promises to reinvigorate economic growth.

Despite his embrace of populist rhetoric, Ross has enjoyed a patrician
lifestyle. He frequently commutes between his offices in New York and home in
Palm Beach, Fla., according to Haute Living magazine. He maintains an art
collection worth more than $100 million that includes works by the Belgian
surrealist Rene Magritte. A graduate of Yale University, he pledged $10 million
to help build its management school.

For 24 years as a banker at Rothschild, Ross developed a lucrative specialty in
bankruptcy and corporate restructurings. He founded his own firm, W.L. Ross, in
2000 and earned part of his fortune from investing in troubled factories in the
industrial Midwest and in some instances generating profits by limiting worker
benefits. That region swung hard for Trump in the election on the promise of
more manufacturing jobs from renegotiated trade deals and penalties for
factories that outsourced their work abroad.

Since 2000, Ross' firm has invested in more than 178 companies.

Ross most prominently created four companies through mergers and acquisitions
that focused on steel, textiles, autos and coal. In some cases, Ross has sold
the companies he packaged to even larger globe-spanning companies. In 2005, he
sold the International Steel Group, which included the former Bethlehem Steel,
to the Indian steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal.

And while his investments appear to have proved generally lucrative, they have
also at times brought troubling publicity.

In early 2006, the Sago coal mine owned by Ross exploded, triggering a collapse
that killed a dozen miners. Federal safety inspectors in 2005 had cited the West
Virginia mine with 208 violations.

Ross said afterward that he knew about the safety violations but that the mine's
management had assured him that it was a "safe situation."

If confirmed by the Senate as commerce secretary, Ross would oversee nearly
47,000 employees and a budget of roughly $8 billion.

Among its responsibilities, the Cabinet department provides data on the economy
through the Census Bureau and monitors the environment through the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

One former commerce secretary, Donald Evans, noted that a prime responsibility
WAs opening up markets around the world for U.S. companies and workers.

"What you are is ambassador to the world from America," said Evans, who served
under President George W. Bush. "It's critically important when you go to other
countries that, first and foremost, you care about them, the citizens of their
country."

That advice clashes somewhat with the promises made by Trump, who campaigned on
the doctrine of putting "America first." The president-elect told voters that
Mexico, China and other countries had played U.S. trade negotiators for fools.

"Under a Trump administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that
their needs come second to the citizens of foreign countries," Trump said in
April.

Prayer for unity

His Cabinet beginning to take shape, Trump is offering a Thanksgiving prayer for
unity after "a long and bruising" campaign season.

"Emotions are raw and tensions just don't heal overnight," the incoming
president said in a video message released on the eve of the national holiday.
He continued, "It's my prayer that on this Thanksgiving we begin to heal our
divisions and move forward as one country strengthened by shared purpose and
very, very common resolve."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this April 17, 2007, file photo, Wilbur Ross Jr., Chairman
and CEO of WL Ross & Co., speaks at the NanoBusiness Alliance Conference in New
York. Ross, the billionaire investor considered the "king of bankruptcy" for
buying beaten-down companies with the potential to deliver profits, is
President-elect Donald Trump's choice for Commerce secretary, a senior
transition official said Wednesday, Nov. 23, 2016. The official isn't authorized
to publicly discuss the matter and requested anonymity. (AP Photo/Mark Lennihan,
File)  FILE - In this Sunday, Nov. 20, 2016, file photo, President-elect Donald
Trump, left, stands with investor Wilbur Ross after meeting at the Trump
National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in Bedminster, N.J. Trump is poised to
offer the position of commerce secretary to the head of a private-equity firm,
Wilbur Ross. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Oil pipeline: Trump's stock in company raises concern

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW DALY Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 522 words


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump holds stock in the company building
the disputed Dakota Access oil pipeline, and pipeline opponents warn that
Trump's investments could affect any decision he makes on the $3.8 billion
project as president.

Concern about Trump's possible conflicts comes amid protests that unfold daily
along the proposed pipeline route. The dispute over the route has intensified in
recent weeks, with total arrests since August rising to 528. A recent clash near
the main protest camp in North Dakota left a police officer and several
protesters injured.

Trump's 2016 federal disclosure forms show he owned between $15,000 and $50,000
in stock in Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners. That's down from between
$500,000 and $1 million a year earlier.

Trump also owns between $100,000 and $250,000 in Phillips 66, which has a
one-quarter share of Dakota Access.

While Trump's stake in the pipeline company is modest compared with his other
assets, ethics experts say it's among dozens of potential conflicts that could
be resolved by placing his investments in a blind trust, a step Trump has
resisted.

President Barack Obama's administration said this month that it wants more study
and tribal input before deciding whether to allow the partially built pipeline
to cross under a Missouri River reservoir in North Dakota.

The 1,200-mile pipeline would carry oil across four states to a shipping point
in Illinois. The project has been held up while the Army Corps of Engineers
consults with the Standing Rock Sioux, who believe the project could harm the
tribe's drinking water and Native American cultural sites.

The delay raises the likelihood that a final decision will be made by Trump, a
pipeline supporter who has vowed to "unleash" unfettered production of oil and
gas. He takes office in January.

"Trump's investments in the pipeline business threaten to undercut faith in this
process - which was already frayed - by interjecting his own financial
well-being into a much bigger decision," said Sharon Buccino, director of the
land and wildlife program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an
environmental group.

Trump holds ownership stakes in more than 500 companies worldwide. He has said
he plans to transfer control of his company to three of his adult children, but
ethics experts have said conflicts could engulf the new administration if Trump
does not liquidate his business holdings.

Rep. Raul Grijalva, D-Ariz., senior Democrat on the House Natural Resources
Committee, called Trump's investment in the pipeline company "disturbing" and
said it fits a pattern evident in Trump's transition team.

"You have climate [change] deniers, industry lobbyists and energy conglomerates
involved in that process," Grijalva said. "The pipeline companies are gleeful.
This is pay-to-play at its rawest."

Besides Trump, at least two potential candidates for energy secretary also could
benefit from the pipeline. Oil billionaire Harold Hamm could ship oil from his
company, Continental Resources, through the pipeline; and former Texas Gov. Rick
Perry serves on the board of directors of Energy Transfer Partners.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Monday, Nov. 21, 2016, file photo, protesters against
the Dakota Access oil pipeline stand on a burned-out truck near Cannon Ball,
N.D., that they removed from a long-closed bridge a day earlier on a state
highway near their camp in southern North Dakota. President-elect Donald Trump
holds stock in the company building the disputed Dakota Access oil pipeline, and
pipeline opponents warn that Trump's investments could undercut any decision he
makes on the $3.8 billion project as president. (AP Photo/James MacPherson,
File)  FILE - In this Nov. 4, 2016, file photo, Donald Trump speaks in Hershey,
Pa. President-elect Trump holds stock in the company building the disputed
Dakota Access oil pipeline, and pipeline opponents warn that Trump's investments
could undercut any decision he makes on the $3.8 billion project as president.
(AP Photo/ Evan Vucci, File)  FILE - In this Friday, Nov. 18, 2016, file photo,
Energy Transfer Partners CEO Kelcy Warren reviews documents at his office in
Dallas on the Dakota Access oil pipeline that is mired in controversy after
thousand of protestors have sought to block its expansion underneath a water
source close to the Standing Rock Sioux Indian Reservation in North Dakota.
President-elect Donald Trump holds stock in the company building the disputed
Dakota Access oil pipeline, and pipeline opponents warn that Trump's investments
could undercut any decision he makes on the $3.8 billion project as president.
(AP Photo/ John L. Mone, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For some in middle class, Trump plan would mean tax increase

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER S. RUGABER Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 730 words


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump's proposals would modestly cut income
taxes for most middle-class Americans. But for nearly 8 million families -
including a majority of single-parent households - the opposite would happen:
They'd pay more.

Most married couples with three or more children would also pay higher taxes, an
analysis by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center found. And while middle-class
families as a whole would receive tax cuts of about 2 percent, those cuts would
be dwarfed by the windfalls averaging 13.5 percent for America's richest 1
percent.

Trump's campaign rhetoric had promoted the benefits of his proposals for
middle-income Americans.

"The largest tax reductions are for the middle class," said Trump's "Contract
With the American Voter," released last month.

The tax boosts that would hit single parents and large families would result
from Trump's plan to eliminate the personal exemption and the head-of-household
filing status. These features of the tax code have enabled many Americans to
reduce their taxable income. His other proposed tax changes would benefit
middle- and lower-income Americans. But they wouldn't be enough to offset those
modifications.

"If you're a low- or moderate-income single parent, you're going to get hurt,"
said Bob Williams, a fellow at the Tax Policy Center.

During the campaign, Trump said his tax cuts - for individuals and companies -
would energize the economy by boosting business investment in factories and
equipment, while leaving consumers with more cash to spend. His proposals, he
contended, would help create 25 million jobs over the next decade.

But Lily Batchelder, a visiting fellow at the Tax Policy Center and former
deputy director of President Barack Obama's National Economic Council, estimates
that about 7.9 million families with children would pay higher taxes. About 5.8
million are led by single parents. An additional 2.1 million are married
couples.

Other analysts, including economists at the conservative Tax Foundation and
right-of-center American Enterprise Institute, have agreed with Batchelder's
conclusions.

Here's what her analysis finds:

Right now, a single parent with $75,000 in income and two children can claim a
head of household deduction of $9,300, plus three personal exemptions. Those
steps would reduce the household's taxable income by $21,450, to $53,550.

Trump's plan would more than double the standard deduction to $15,000. But that
change would be outweighed by his elimination of personal exemptions and
head-of-household status. So the family's taxable income would be $60,000, and
their tax bill would be $2,440 more than it is now.

A married couple with four children and income of $50,000 would absorb a tax
increase of $1,090 because of their loss of personal exemptions.

Still, Trump's plan will probably evolve during congressional negotiations
before it becomes law.

"This is not anywhere close to a final plan," Williams said.

Trump's advisers deny that he will raise taxes on middle-income Americans but
don't provide details. Previously, the campaign suggested that Trump would
broadly instruct Congress to avoid raising taxes on lower- and middle-income
workers.

Yet all independent analyses show most of the benefit flowing to the wealthiest
Americans. Nearly half of Trump's tax cuts would go to the top 1 percent of
earners, the Tax Policy Center found. Less than a quarter of the cuts would
benefit the bottom 80 percent.

Trump proposes to reduce the number of tax brackets to three from seven, with
rates of 12 percent, 25 percent and 33 percent. That would slash the top rate
from the current 39.6 percent. He would repeal the estate tax, which affects
only about 0.2 percent of estates - those worth above $5.45 million.

For middle-income earners as a whole, Trump's proposals would cut taxes, even
taking into account the increases on single-parent families. Those earning
nearly $50,000 to about $83,000 - the middle one-fifth - would receive an
average cut of $1,010, according to the Tax Policy Center. That would lift their
after-tax incomes 1.8 percent.

By contrast, the wealthiest 1 percent - those earning over $700,000 - would
enjoy a tax cut averaging nearly $215,000, boosting their after-tax incomes 13.5
percent. And the richest 0.1 percent - those making above $3.7 million - would
receive a bonanza: an average tax cut exceeding $1 million.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Thursday, Nov. 10, 2016, file photo, President-elect
Donald Trump speaks during his meeting with President Barack Obama in the Oval
Office of the White House in Washington. Trump promised big tax cuts for the
middle class, but for nearly 8 million families, the opposite would occur:
They'd pay more. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais, File)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: ANALYSIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

World digest

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 641 words


Russia protests planned launchings over Crimea

Russia's defense ministry has presented the Ukrainian military attaché with a
note of protest in reaction to Ukraine's plans to conduct training launchings of
missiles over Crimea next week.

Russia has been in control of the Ukrainian peninsula since it annexed it in
March 2014 after a hastily called referendum.

The note of protest said the airspace of the planned launchings, over Crimea's
west coast, "violates territorial seas of the Russian Federation."

Norway rejects request from Snowden - Norway's Supreme Court has rejected Edward
Snowden's request for a legal guarantee that would allow him to collect an award
in the Scandinavian country without risk of being extradited to the United
States.

In its ruling Friday, the Supreme Court upheld decisions by lower courts that
also refused the request.

The Norwegian chapter of the free speech and literary organization PEN had
invited Snowden to receive its Ossietzky Prize. Snowden, who is currently in
Russia, faces charges in the U.S. that could land him in prison for up to 30
years for leaking to journalists details of a secret U.S. eavesdropping program.

Turkey threatens EU over membership talks - Turkey threatened Friday to open the
migrant floodgates if the European Union halts its membership talks, as
criticism grows of Ankara's heavy-handed response to a failed military coup.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's warning - the latest in a series of heated
speeches about Europe from top Turkish officials - came a day after EU lawmakers
called for a freeze on the talks over the post-coup arrests, dismissals and
jailing of tens of thousands of people.

Erdogan's claims that his country has been "betrayed" are a sign of how Turkey's
pride has been wounded by the lack of international solidarity Ankara feels has
been shown since its political foundations were rocked by the July coup attempt.

Five men accused of plotting terrorism in France - Five men arrested this week
in two French cities were planning a terrorist attack in France as early as next
week and were receiving their orders from an Islamic State group member based in
Iraq or Syria, Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said Friday.

The five were arrested on Sunday, four of them in the eastern city of
Strasbourg, and one in the southern city of Marseille.

Molins said the five men were "given guidance remotely" from an IS member based
in Iraq or Syria.

Church condemns Luther's anti-Jewish legacy - Norway's state Lutheran Church has
condemned the anti-Jewish legacy of Martin Luther, the 16th-century German
theologian who started the Protestant Reformation.

In a statement issued Friday ahead of next year's 500-year anniversary of the
Reformation, the Church of Norway's General Synod said some of Luther's writings
were later used in anti-Semitic propaganda, including in Nazi Germany.

Noting that such propaganda was also spread in Nazi-occupied Norway during World
War II, the synod said that "in the Reformation anniversary year of 2017, we as
a church must clearly distance ourselves from the anti-Judaism that Luther left
behind."

Ontario amusement park accused of animal cruelty - Ontario's animal welfare
agency has charged Marineland amusement park in the tourist city of Niagara
Falls with five counts of animal cruelty.

The Ontario Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals said Friday that
the charges relate to peacocks, guinea hens and black bears.

Marineland faces one count of permitting a peacock to be in distress, one count
of failing to comply with the prescribed standards of care for a peacock and two
counts for failing to comply with the prescribed standards of care for guinea
hens.

The facility also faces charges related to failing to provide adequate food and
water for its bears. Marineland did not immediately respond to a request for
comment.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Rodrigo Londono, top leader of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, FARC, speaks during a roundtable with foreign journalists in Bogota,
Colombia, Friday, Nov. 25, 2016, a day after he signed a second, modified peace
accord with Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos to end the country's
half-century conflict. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)  Rodrigo Londono, top leader
of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, speaks during a roundtable
with foreign journalists in Bogota, Colombia, Friday, Nov. 25, 2016, a day after
he signed a second, modified peace accord with Colombia's President Juan Manuel
Santos to end the country's half-century conflict. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)
Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos, left, shakes hands with Rodrigo
Londono, known as Timochenko, top leader of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, FARC, after signing a revised peace pact at Colon Theater in Bogota,
Colombia, Thursday, Nov. 24, 2016. An original accord ending the half century
conflict was rejected by voters in a referendum last month. (AP Photo/Fernando
Vergara)  Rodrigo Londono, top leader of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, FARC, smiles during a roundtable with foreign journalists in Bogota,
Colombia, Friday, Nov. 25, 2016, a day after he signed a second, modified peace
accord with Colombia's President Juan Manuel Santos to end the country's
half-century conflict. (AP Photo/Fernando Vergara)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

People

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 408 words


Che takes on racial issues in special

Michael Che isn't known to shy away from controversy behind the desk of "Weekend
Update" on "Saturday Night Live." His Netflix comedy special, which begins
streaming Friday, is no different.

"Michael Che Matters," predictably, confronts discussions around the Black Lives
Matter movement - including its opponents.

"They don't tell you black lives don't matter," the comedian and former "Daily
Show" correspondent tells his audience at Brooklyn's Greenpoint Terminal
Warehouse. "That's not what they say - that's not the argument. They hit you
with that slick (expletive). Like, well, 'All lives matter.' Really, semantics?
That would be like if your wife came up to you and was like, 'Do you love me?'
And you're like, 'Baby, I love everybody, what are you talking about?'"

The one-hour special also finds Che sharing his opinion on president-elect
Donald Trump. "I actually like Donald Trump, to be honest with you," he says,
leading to a few audible boos. Che's response? "Shut up."

"I don't think he should be president," Che clarifies. "But I do think he's ...
hilarious and he should be my best friend."

Two sentenced in Danish celebrity-snooping case - When Denmark's main gossip
magazine in 2008 reported that newlywed Prince Joachim and his second wife were
in Canada on their honeymoon, the magazine credited good sourcing.

A court called it a crime.

On Thursday, Judge Mette Lyster Knudsen sentenced a former employee of a
payment-processing company for providing the magazine with information on credit
card payments of 135 Danish royals and other celebrities, enabling them to track
people.

Peter Bo Henriksen, who got information through his previous job with the Nets
company, was sentenced to 18 months. The judge said that over four years,
Henriksen "systematically and under aggravating circumstances had unlawfully
obtained information on a wide range of publicly known persons' credit card
transactions."

Henrik Qvortrup, the magazine's former chief editor, was sentenced to 15 months,
of which 12 were converted to 200 hours' community service.

CELEBRITY BIRTHDAYS

Director Kathryn Bigelow is 65. TV personality Bill Nye is 61. Jazz musician
Maria Schneider is 56. Drummer Charlie Benante is 54. Drummer Mike Bordin is 54.
Actor Fisher Stevens is 53. Actress Robin Givens is 52. Actor Michael Vartan is
48. Rapper Skoob is 46. Rapper Twista is 44. Actor Jaleel White is 40. Actress
Aubrey Peeples is 23.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Bethonie Butler

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump disavowal of white supremacists doesn't quiet concerns

BYLINE:  By BILL BARROW and JONATHAN LEMIRE Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 956 words


ATLANTA - Donald Trump's disavowal last week of white supremacists who have
cheered his election as president hasn't quieted concern about the movement's
impact on his White House or whether more acts of hate will be carried out in
his name.

Members of the self-declared "alt-right" have exulted over the Nov. 8 results
with public cries of "Hail Trump!" and reprises of the Nazi salute. The Ku Klux
Klan plans to mark Trump's victory with a parade next month in North Carolina.
Civil rights advocates have recoiled, citing an uptick in harassment and
incidents of hate crimes affecting African-Americans, Jews, Muslims, Latinos,
gays, lesbians and other minority groups since the vote.

The president-elect has drawn repeated criticism for being slow to offer his
condemnation of white supremacists. His strongest denunciation of the movement
has not come voluntarily, only when asked, and he occasionally trafficked in
retweets of racist social media posts during his campaign.

Further, Trump has named Stephen Bannon, the conservative media provocateur who
shaped the final months of Trump's campaign, as a White House chief strategist
who will work just steps from the Oval Office. Bannon's appointment has become
as a flashpoint for both sides.

Trump's detractors and his "alt-right" supporters broadly agree on one thing: It
may not even matter what Trump himself believes, or how he defines his own
ideology, because his campaign rhetoric has emboldened the white identity
politics that will help define his administration.

"Those groups clearly see something and hear something that causes them to
believe he is one who sympathizes with their voice and their view. ... Donald
Trump has to take responsibility for that," said Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md.,
who is black. He was among 169 members of Congress who signed a letter opposing
Bannon's White House appointment.

White nationalist leader Richard Spencer said he believed Trump, Bannon and the
"alt-right" were "all riding in the same lane." Spencer explained that neither
Trump nor Bannon was a movement "identitarian," Spencer's preferred term for his
racially driven politics.

But Spencer said Trump's election validated Spencer's view that America must
reject multiculturalism and "political correctness" in favor of its white,
Christian European heritage.

Spencer's group, the National Policy Institute, drew headlines for their recent
gathering where some attendees mimicked the Nazi salute as they feted Trump.
Spencer said the salutes were "ironic exuberance" that "the mainstream media
doesn't get."

But at the Anti-Defamation League, which tracks incidents of anti-Semitism, Oren
Segal said it was part of a disturbing postelection atmosphere tied to Trump's
17-month campaign.

Before, Segal said, it wasn't "surprising" for the ADL to get calls about a
swastika, the Nazi insignia, defacing public or private property. "What's
surprising now," he said, "are the references to the campaign" in the incidents.
"'Make American White Again' ... 'Go Trump' with the swastika," he said. "That
is unique."

Trump was asked about the rash of incidents during a postelection interview on
CBS' "60 Minutes." Trump said he was "saddened," and he looked into the camera
and said, "Stop it." But Trump has steadfastly defended his hiring of Bannon,
who previously led the pro-Trump website Breitbart and in July described it as a
"platform for the alt-right" - just a month before he took the job running the
Republican nominee's campaign.

Jared Taylor, editor of the white supremacist magazine American Renaissance,
said Trump bore some responsibility for his pitched rhetoric, which included
describing Mexican immigrants as "rapists" at the outset of his campaign and
proposing a ban on all Muslim immigrants. But Taylor said Trump was still
unfairly maligned as a white supremacist and racist because he "cares about
Americans already here."

But white supremacist imagery was a common sight at Trump rallies. Pepe the
frog, a cartoon character appropriated by the white supremacist movement on
social media, appeared on dozens of T-shirts and signs. The "Make America Great
Again" motto was seen by some as a call back to the nation's simpler, whiter
past. While the businessman's campaign never actively courted votes from the
movement, it did recognize the long-term fears that some whites feel about
immigration.

Taylor insisted, "There's nothing Ku Klux Klan about any of this."

But, in fact, Trump drew Klan backing.

As part of his prolific Twitter use, he has retweeted white nationalist accounts
and a famous quote of Benito Mussolini, the 20th century fascist leader of
Italy, saying, "It is better to live one day as a lion than 100 years as a
sheep." In February, Trump declined to repudiate former Klan leader David Duke
during a CNN interview. Afterward, Trump blamed the move on a faulty earpiece,
only to come back days later and offer an explicit condemnation.

He has several times fallen back on the excuse of merely retweeting when asked
about his controversial social media behavior. In February, he retweeted a
message from the account of a neo-Nazi, which came shortly after he retweeted
false crime statistics that dramatically overstated the number of whites killed
by blacks.

"Bill, am I gonna check every statistic?" he asked Fox News host Bill O'Reilly
at the time. "All it was is a retweet. It wasn't from me."

While Trump is quick to blast his foes on Twitter - in recent days that includes
The New York Times and the cast of the Broadway musical "Hamilton" - he has yet
to proactively condemn racist acts his win has inspired. His eldest son, Don
Jr., has used Twitter to liken Syrian refugees to a poisoned bowl of Skittles
candy, and he has posted images of Pepe.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Oct 7, 2016 photo, Steve Bannon, former head of
Breitbart News and campaign CEO for then Republican presidential candidate
Donald Trump, appears at a national security meeting with advisers at Trump
Tower in New York. Donald Trump's disavowal this week of white supremacists who
have cheered his election as president hasn't quieted concerns about the
movement's impact on his White House or whether more acts of hate will be
carried out in his name. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci, File)  FILE - In this Nov. 7,
2016 file photo, Donald Trump arrives to speak at a campaign rally in Sarasota,
Fla. Trump's disavowal this week of white supremacists who have cheered his
election as president hasn't quieted concerns about the movement's impact on his
White House or whether more acts of hate will be carried out in his name. (AP
Photo/ Evan Vucci, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump scorned Roberts but could need his Supreme Court vote

BYLINE:  By MARK SHERMAN - Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 680 words


WASHINGTON - It's a safe bet that when Chief Justice John Roberts and Donald
Trump meet outside the Capitol on Inauguration Day, Roberts won't ask why Trump
said terrible things about him.

"Disgraceful" and "an absolute disaster" were some of the ways Trump
characterized Roberts as he campaigned.

Come Jan. 20, Roberts will administer the oath of office, the two men will shake
hands and then Roberts will recede into the background. For now.

Roberts and the rest of the Supreme Court probably will be called on to review
Trump's major undertakings as president. Trump could need Roberts' vote on
matters ranging from immigration to health care to environmental regulations.

Will it matter that in the course of the campaign, Trump had harsh words for the
leader of the federal judiciary? The pointed criticism of a justice by name was
only one in a long list of unusual aspects of Trump's campaign for the
presidency.

"Justice Roberts really let us down," Trump told an audience in Aiken, S.C.,
last December. "What he did with Obamacare was disgraceful, and I think he did
that because he wanted to be popular inside the Beltway," he added, referring to
greater Washington.

A month later, in an interview with ABC News' George Stephanopoulos, Trump again
referred to the health care decisions when he said, "Justice Roberts turned out
to be an absolute disaster."

Roberts was savaged by several Republican presidential candidates, an unusual
spectacle given Roberts' appointment by a Republican president and his generally
conservative record. Roberts has not responded to the criticism. Among the
justices, Ruth Bader Ginsburg made plain her dislike of Trump in July, then
walked back her comments a few days later.

Trump's controversial idea about keeping Muslims out of the U.S. would certainly
face a court challenge if his administration tries to put it in place.
Environmental groups that have been fighting for Obama-era regulations would be
expected to fight Trump efforts to roll those back.

In these and other areas where the extent of the president's power is at stake,
the Supreme Court could have the final word.

As chief justice of a court that is divided between four liberal appointees of
Democratic presidents and four more conservative justices who were put on the
court by Republicans, Roberts has said he has spent even more time than usual
seeking agreement.

The potential for deadlock will disappear once Trump nominates and the Senate
confirms someone to fill the seat that has been vacant since Justice Antonin
Scalia's death in February.

But even then, Roberts might see the value in consensus, said Artemus Ward, a
political science professor at Northern Illinois University. "Does the court
want to issue divided opinions to a divided country on divisive issues?" Ward
asked.

The inauguration day meeting between Roberts and Trump may have its closest
parallel in the contentious relationship between Earl Warren and Richard Nixon,
old Republican political rivals in California.

In January 1969, Warren was the chief justice who asked Nixon to raise his right
hand and repeat the presidential oath. In that campaign, Nixon ran against the
liberal Warren Court on a law-and-order platform.

"One of the most painful moments of Warren's life had to be swearing in Nixon,"
said Jim Newton, author of the Warren biography "Justice for All."

But there is no evidence from records of the 1968 presidential race that Nixon
personally disparaged Warren, Newton said. The chief justice already had
announced that he would retire from the Supreme Court and Nixon knew he would
appoint a successor if he won.

Days before his death in 1974, Justices William Brennan and William Douglas
visited Warren in his Washington hospital room. Nixon's presidency was mired in
the Watergate scandal and it was about to receive a final blow in the form of a
Supreme Court decision ordering the president to turn over secretly recorded
audiotapes. Warren pleaded with his old colleagues to hold Nixon accountable and
not let the president be above the law.

They assured him they would, Newton wrote.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  In this photo taken Sept. 24, 2016, Chief Justice John Roberts speaks
in Washington. Roberts will administer the oath of office to a man who called
him "disgraceful" and a "disappointment" to conservatives. Then Roberts and the
rest of the Supreme Court also probably will be called on to review Donald
Trump's major undertakings as president. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais,
File)  FILE - In this Nov. 9, 2016 file photo, President-elect Donald Trump
speaks in New York. Chief Justice John Roberts will administer the oath of
office to a man who called him "disgraceful" and a "disappointment" to
conservatives. Then Roberts and the rest of the Supreme Court also probably will
be called on to review Donald Trump's major undertakings as president. (AP
Photo/ Evan Vucci, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

For now, Melania Trump plans to be long-distance first lady

BYLINE:  By CATHERINE LUCEY Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 769 words


DES MOINES, Iowa - It will be one of many unusual things about a Donald Trump
administration: a long-distance first lady.

Trump will move into the White House after the Jan. 20 inauguration. Breaking
with tradition, Melania Trump and 10-year-old son Barron plan to remain in New
York City at least until the end of the school year.

While the decision sets Melania Trump apart from other first ladies - both
Michelle Obama and Hillary Clinton moved with school-age children in tow - it
seems in character. The former model and naturalized U.S. citizen from Slovenia
was an elusive figure during the campaign and had no political experience before
her husband's campaign.

"We're in a time when all the molds are being broken," said Katherine Jellison,
head of the history department at Ohio University and an authority on first
ladies. "That may be the case where we have a redefining of a role that, after
all, isn't in the Constitution."

Trump spokesman Jason Miller cited "sensitivity" about pulling Barron from
school midyear. In an interview with US Weekly earlier this year, Melania Trump
said: "Barron is the priority for now and he needs me at this age. He needs a
parent at home, and I like to keep it as normal as possible."

Anita McBride, chief of staff to Laura Bush during her time in the White House,
noted that Michelle Obama also weighed delaying her family's move for similar
reasons, but "ultimately made a different decision and one that suited their
family."

Just how Melania Trump will tackle the White House, and how she will be received
by the public, is unclear. The first lady usually serves as the official hostess
and typically undertakes some kind of advocacy work. Michelle Obama took on
childhood obesity and other projects. But being first lady has no official
duties or any clear playbook.

Married to Donald Trump for nearly 12 years, Melania Trump is his third wife. A
U.S. citizen since 2006, she will be only the second first lady born outside the
country. Louisa Catherine Johnson Adams, wife of John Quincy Adams, was born in
London to an American father and British mother.

So far, Melania Trump's few forays into politics have been a mixed success.

Her speech at the Republican National Convention was widely panned after the
discovery of striking similarities of portions of her speech to the one
delivered by Michelle Obama at the 2008 Democratic convention. And she has had
to defend her husband against accusations of sexual assault. She has challenged
the veracity of reports that he imposed himself on women, despite his boasts in
a 2005 video about doing so.

In the couple's first postelection interview, on CBS' "60 Minutes," Melania
Trump said: "I will stay true to myself. I'm very strong and tough and
confident."

For now, McBride said, the professional staff at the White House can do much of
the event planning, with the first lady weighing in remotely and traveling down
from time to time.

McBride noted one big event looming: the Governor's Ball in February, a standing
event on the calendar.

Another possibility is that other family members, like Trump's daughter Ivanka,
could take hostess duties at times. There is plenty of historical precedent for
that, according to Jellison. When Jackie Kennedy traveled, President John F.
Kennedy's mother or sisters would fill in. If Bess Truman was home in Missouri,
her daughter, Margaret, would play hostess during Harry Truman's presidency.
Julie Nixon sometimes appeared on behalf of her mother, Pat Nixon.

However the events are organized, Doug Wead, who worked for President George
Bush and wrote a book about presidents' children, said the Trumps are experts at
event planning.

"You have this unusual situation where you have a president who doesn't have
political experience, but he has business experience. They will know how to
entertain," Wead said.

In terms of advocacy, Melania Trump has mentioned doing work that addresses
bullying - a notable choice given the president-elect's love of name-calling on
social media. It can take some time for the first lady to launch personal
projects.

Michelle Obama began her "Let's Move" initiative about a year into her husband's
first term.

If Melania Trump tries to keep some distance from Washington even after she
moves, she wouldn't be the first presidential spouse seeking space. Bess Truman
often fled Washington for her hometown of Independence, Mo. And Jackie Kennedy
liked to travel in Europe.

"I'm not saying it has always been the case that first ladies and their families
loved living in the White House," Jellison said. "There were many who spent a
great deal of time away."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Nov. 9, 2016, file photo, President-elect Donald Trump,
left, arrives to speak at an election night rally with his son Barron and wife
Melania, in New York. Breaking with tradition, Donald Trump will move into the
White House after the inauguration while wife Melania and 10-year-old son Barron
plan to remain in New York City until at least the end of the school year. (AP
Photo/Evan Vucci, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Donor pulls funding for university arts after Trump protest

BYLINE:  By CATHY BUSSEWITZ Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A36

LENGTH: 414 words


HONOLULU - A donor has pulled his support for students at the University of
Hawaii after the art department's chairwoman organized a sign-painting party at
which some people used art to protest President-elect Donald Trump.

Chairwoman Gaye Chan said she used her personal Facebook page to invite people
to paint signs together on campus.

"Regardless of who you voted for, or if at all, there will be long-term results
that will negatively impact us all," she said on her Facebook page. "People are
already experiencing misogynist and racist harassment. Let's unite by showing
solidarity by attending two events tomorrow."

Chan's post upset donor Mark Blackburn, a Trump supporter, who said he didn't
think Chan should use state property to promote a political agenda.

"I said, 'You know what, I don't think this is right, and I'm going to vote with
my checkbook on this thing,'" Blackburn said.

Chan said she had drafted the Facebook post on her own time and didn't use
university resources. The sign-painting took place on "a piece of concrete in a
public space that any member of the public can use," she said.

Chan thanked Blackburn and his wife for their past contributions, adding that
she had no animosity toward them.

University spokesman Dan Meisenzahl said that Chan didn't violate university
policies with her Facebook post and that professors regularly participated in
protests over telescopes built on mountains held sacred by Native Hawaiians,
genetically modified organisms and other issues.

"It's a university," Meisenzahl said. "It's an institution of higher education.
You're supposed to debate ideas."

Blackburn estimates he gave at least $40,000 for scholarships and programs at
the university over the past couple of years. He invested money to start a
pop-up art gallery that showcases students' work, and has spent money to fly
students and their work to galleries in Santa Fe, N.M., and New York, he said.

Meisenzahl said Blackburn's direct donations to the university were closer to
$14,000.

The difference in estimates could be due to expenses Blackburn incurred opening
an art agency outside the university that benefited students, Chan said.

"This guy is trying to limit free speech with his money," said Alan Ness, a
graduate who obtained his masters in fine arts from the university in 2008. "The
universities are already underfunded, and now this guy is just exacerbating the
problem by pulling his funds for the arts because he doesn't like what the arts
are saying."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump assails effort to recount votes; aide slams Romney

BYLINE:  By STEVE PEOPLES and CALVIN WOODWARD Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 910 words


New York - President-elect Donald Trump claimed without evidence Sunday that
"millions" voted illegally in the national election, scoffing at Hillary
Clinton's nearly 2 million edge in the popular vote and returning to his
campaign mantra of a rigged race even as he prepares to enter the White House in
less than two months.

Trump and his lieutenants assailed an effort - now joined by Clinton - to
recount votes in up to three battleground states, calling the push fraudulent,
the work of "crybabies" and, in Trump's estimation, "sad."

The president-elect himself launched a Twitter offensive that spanned more than
12 hours on Sunday, casting a shadow over the legitimacy of an election that he
won.

"I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted
illegally," he tweeted in the afternoon before alleging in an evening tweet
"serious voter fraud in Virginia, New Hampshire and California." Trump's
transition team did not respond to questions seeking evidence of unfounded
claims.

There's been no indication of widespread vote manipulation, illegal voting or
hacking that materially affected the outcome one way or the other. It's that
very lack of evidence that suggests Trump is likely to prevail in recounts.

Trump tweeted on Sunday part of Clinton's concession speech, when she told
supporters they must accept that "Donald Trump is going to be our president,"
and snippets from her debate remarks, when she denounced the Republican nominee
for refusing to say in advance that he would accept the Election Day verdict.

This came on top of his saying it was a "scam" that Green Party nominee Jill
Stein was revisiting the vote count in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.
Trump won Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, and as of Wednesday, held a lead of almost
11,000 votes in Michigan, with the results awaiting state certification Monday.
His Michigan margin was a hair's breadth 0.22 percent of the state's votes.

Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2 million votes, but Trump
won 290 electoral votes to Clinton's 232, not counting Michigan. She could
conceivably tip the electoral balance in the remote event that all flipped to
her in recounts.

Trump returned to New York Sunday evening after spending Thanksgiving weekend at
his estate in West Palm Beach, Fla. His transition team said the president-elect
had scheduled a series of meetings Monday with prospective administration hires.

Among the jobs Trump has still yet to fill is secretary of state. Internal
division over the position again spilled out into the open on Sunday as Trump
senior adviser Kellyanne Conway voiced her concern with the possibility of Mitt
Romney's landing such a significant position.

Trump supporters "feel a bit betrayed that you can get a Romney back in there
after everything he did," Conway said. "We don't even know if he voted for
Donald Trump. He and his consultants were nothing but awful to Donald Trump for
a year." She added that she was "reflecting what the grass roots are saying."

Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker are among
other prospects to serve as the country's top diplomat.

"I'm all for party unity, but I'm not sure we have to pay for that with the
secretary of state position," Conway said.

Trump's incoming chief of staff, national party Chairman Reince Priebus,
acknowledged that Romney would represent "a team-of-rivals concept."

Trump was mostly silent on the brewing recount effort until it became known that
Clinton would join it, at least in Wisconsin. On Saturday, a day after Wisconsin
officials said they would conduct the first presidential recount in the state's
history, Clinton campaign attorney Marc Elias said: "We intend to participate in
order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides."

Elias said Clinton would take the same approach in Pennsylvania and Michigan if
Stein were to follow through with recount requests in those states.

That loosened Trump's tongue.

"Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the
victory speech and after the results were in," Trump tweeted Sunday. "Nothing
will change."

He quoted from her concession speech - "We owe him an open mind and the chance
to lead" - and he concluded: "So much time and money will be spent - same
result! Sad."

On NBC's "Meet the Press," Conway said Stein, "the Hillary people" and others
supporting recounts had to decide whether they were going to back a peaceful
transition "or if they're going to be a bunch of crybabies and sore losers about
an election that they can't turn around."

Priebus, on "Fox News Sunday," called the effort a "total and complete
distraction and a fraud and something that they should drop."

Clinton's lawyer said her team had been combing through the results since the
election in search of anomalies that would suggest hacking by Russians or others
and had found "no actionable evidence" of an altered outcome. Moreover, Elias
said, Trump has a vote lead even in the closest states that well exceeds the
largest margin ever overcome in a recount.

But "we feel it is important, on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally
represented in any court proceedings and represented on the ground in order to
monitor the recount process itself," he said.

Trump beat Clinton in Wisconsin by fewer than 22,200 votes, less than 1 percent
of votes cast. He won Pennsylvania by some 70,600 votes, just more than 1
percentage point over Clinton.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Construction continues on the presidential reviewing stand on
Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, Friday, Nov. 25, 2016, looking toward the
White House and the Washington Monument. The reviewing stand is where then
President Donald Trump will view the inaugural parade on Jan. 20, 2017. (AP
Photo/Alex Brandon)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Miami Cuban celebration turns to reflection on Castro death

BYLINE:  By ADRIAN SAINZ and CURT ANDERSON Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 768 words


MIAMI - Celebration turned to somber reflection and church services Sunday as
Cuban-Americans in Miami largely stayed off the streets after a raucous daylong
party in which thousands marked the death of Fidel Castro.

One Cuban exile car dealer, however, sought to turn the revolutionary
socialist's death into a quintessential capitalist deal by offering $15,000
discounts on some models.

And on the airwaves, top aides to President-elect Donald Trump promised a hard
look at the recent thaw in U.S. relations with Cuba.

At St. Brendan Catholic Church in the Miami suburb of Westchester, a member of
the chorus read a statement by Archbishop Thomas Wenski about Castro's death
before the service. There was no overt mention of Castro during the Sunday Mass.
But during the reading of the Prayers of the Faithful, one of the two priests
celebrating the Mass prayed for "an end to communism, especially in Cuba and
Venezuela."

"Lord, hear our prayers," churchgoers responded.

Outside the church, Nelson Frau, 32, a Cuban-American whose parents fled the
island in 1962, said he wasn't surprised that Castro was not mentioned. He said
Wenski's statement reflected the role of the Catholic Church in Miami as a
mediator for peace between the Cubans in Miami and those on the island.

Frau said celebrations of Castro's death Saturday on the streets of Miami were a
"natural reaction."

"Let's not forget that this is an exile community that has suffered a lot over
50 years," Frau said. "He's an image of pain to a lot of people. It's a
celebration not of his death, but a celebration of the end of this image of pain
and suffering."

The pot-banging, car horn-honking, flag-waving throngs were much thinner in
Little Havana and other Cuban-American neighborhoods on Sunday. People quietly
sipped their morning coffee outside the Versailles restaurant - which had put up
signs in Spanish calling itself the "House of the Exiles" - where many of the
demonstrations have been centered along Calle Ocho, or Eighth Street.

Later Sunday afternoon, people gathered anew outside the restaurant, forcing
police to close the street down again as a chanting group carried a large Cuban
flag.

One group of Cuban exiles held a news conference at the Bay of Pigs museum,
which commemorates the failed CIA-backed invasion in 1961. They called for a
large rally Wednesday afternoon in Little Havana.

Castro was still on the minds of many, however, including exile Arnaldo Bomnin
of Bomnin Chevrolet. He was offering $15,000 off on Corvettes and several
sports-utility vehicle models.

Bomnin said the idea for the discount sprang from a conversation with a
marketing company about a press release discussing his Cuban heritage after
Castro's death. Bomnin said he studied medicine in Cuba, but left the island
after finding out the government was planning to place him as a doctor with a
military unit. He arrived in Miami in 1996, and worked at an avocado farm and
sold seafood before moving on to real estate and car sales.

The offer is not intended as a gimmick to sell more cars and profit from
Castro's death, he said. Instead, it's a way for him to give back to the
community and reflect the hope that Miami's Cubans now have for a democratic
government on the island.

"I don't celebrate the death of anybody," he said. "What we're celebrating is
that we're one step closer to democracy in Cuba; we're one step closer to
freedom in Cuba, to a free society in Cuba."

Cuba also was a main topic on all the Sunday news programs, particularly Trump's
plans for U.S. relations with the communist island and whether he will reverse
the thaw pushed by President Barack Obama.

Trump's campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, and his incoming chief of staff,
Reince Priebus, both said Trump wanted to ensure that Cuba was not benefiting
from unilateral decisions that didn't benefit the American people or Cubans
living on the island.

"We're not going to have a unilateral deal coming from Cuba back to the United
States without some changes in their government," Priebus said on "Fox News
Sunday."

"Repression, open markets, freedom of religion, political prisoners - these
things need to change in order to have open and free relationships, and that's
what President-elect Trump believes," he said.

The two aides would not discuss details. And Conway said on ABC's "This Week"
that Trump was not flatly opposed to a changed and thawed relationship with
Cuba.

"He is open to researching and, in fact, resetting relations with Cuba," she
said. "But his criticism of what has happened in the last couple of years is
very simple: It's that we got nothing in return."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  A member of the Cuban community celebrates the death of Fidel Castro,
Saturday, Nov. 26, 2016, in the Little Havana area in Miami. Castro, who led a
rebel army to improbable victory in Cuba, embraced Soviet-style communism and
defied the power of 10 U.S. presidents during his half century rule, died at age
90. (AP Photo/Alan Diaz)  Alexandra Villoch, president and publisher of the
Miami Herald Media Company, hands out a special edition of the Miami Herald with
the headline "Castro Dead," in front of the Versailles Restaurant in the Little
Havana neighborhood of Miami as members of the Cuban community react to the
death of Fidel Castro, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2016. Castro, who led a rebel army to
improbable victory in Cuba, embraced Soviet-style communism and defied the power
of 10 U.S. presidents during his half century rule, died at age 90. (AP
Photo/Wilfredo Lee)  People celebrate the death of Fidel Castro in Miami,
Saturday, Nov. 26, 2016. Castro, who led a rebel army to improbable victory,
embraced Soviet-style communism and defied the power of 10 U.S. presidents
during his half century rule of Cuba, died at age 90. (Michael Laughlin/South
Florida Sun-Sentinel via AP)  Members of the Cuban community react to the death
of Fidel Castro, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2016, in the Little Havana area in Miami.
Castro, who led a rebel army to improbable victory in Cuba, embraced
Soviet-style communism and defied the power of 10 U.S. presidents during his
half century rule, died at age 90. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)  Maria Garrido,
speaks to a crowd of people that gathered in Little Havana on Saturday, Nov. 26,
2016. Garrido joined the crowd of people celebrating the death of Fidel Castro.
(Randy Vazquez/South Florida Sun-Sentinel via AP)  Members of the Cuban
community wave Cuban and American flags as they react to the death of Fidel
Castro, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2016, in the Little Havana area in Miami. Castro, who
led a rebel army to improbable victory in Cuba, embraced Soviet-style communism
and defied the power of 10 U.S. presidents during his half century rule, died at
age 90. (AP Photo/Alan Diaz)  People mourn the death of Fidel Castro in a
festive way in the streets of Miami on Saturday, Nov. 26, 2016. (Randy
Vazquez/South Florida Sun-Sentinel via AP)  Banging pots and pans and waving
Cuban and American flags, members of the Cuban community react to the death of
Fidel Castro, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2016, in the Little Havana area in Miami.
Castro, who led a rebel army to improbable victory in Cuba, embraced
Soviet-style communism and defied the power of 10 U.S. presidents during his
half century rule, died at age 90. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)  Banging pots and
pans and waving Cuban and American flags, members of the Cuban community react
to the death of Fidel Castro, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2016, in the Little Havana area
in Miami. Castro, who led a rebel army to improbable victory in Cuba, embraced
Soviet-style communism and defied the power of 10 U.S. presidents during his
half century rule, died at age 90. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)  Anita Garcia, left,
and her dog Louis look on as fellow members of the Cuban community react to the
death of Fidel Castro, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2016, in the Little Havana area in
Miami. Castro, who led a rebel army to improbable victory in Cuba, embraced
Soviet-style communism and defied the power of 10 U.S. presidents during his
half century rule, died at age 90. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)  Members of the Cuban
community react to the death of Fidel Castro, Saturday, Nov. 26, 2016, in the
Little Havana area in Miami. Castro, who led a rebel army to improbable victory
in Cuba, embraced Soviet-style communism and defied the power of 10 U.S.
presidents during his half century rule, died at age 90. (AP Photo/Wilfredo Lee)
Worshipers attend Mass at the Shrine Our Lady of Charity in Coconut Grove,
Fla.,two days after the announcement of Fidel Castro's death on Sunday, Nov.27,
2016. (Carl Juste/Miami Herald via AP)  Monsignor Francisco Garcia celebrate
Mass in Coconut Grove, Fla., on the first Sunday of Advent two days after the
announcement of Fidel Castro's death on Sunday, Nov. 27, 2016. (Carl Juste/Miami
Herald via AP)  Worshipers attend Mass at the Shrine Our Lady of Charity in in
Coconut Grove, Fla., two days after the announcement of Fidel Castro's death on
Sunday, Nov. 27, 2016. (Carl Juste/Miami Herald via AP)  Octavio Alva, 87, left,
pray as he attends mass at the Shrine Our Lady of Charity in Coconut Grove,
Fla., two days after the announcement of Fidel Castro's death on Sunday, Nov.
27, 2016. (Carl Juste/Miami Herald via AP)  Monsignor Francisco Garcia
celebrates Mass in Coconut Grove, Fla., on the first Sunday of Advent two days
after the announcement of Fidel Castro's death on Sunday, Nov. 27, 2016. (Carl
Juste/Miami Herald via AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Lame-duck Congress works to set stage for President Trump

BYLINE:  By ERICA WERNER Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 831 words


WASHINGTON - The lame-duck Congress is gaveling in for its final work session of
2016, and its last under President Barack Obama, as lawmakers face a Dec. 9
deadline for spending legislation to keep the government running.

Republican leaders want to pass a short-term spending bill to extend current
funding levels into next spring, allowing a new President Donald Trump the
opportunity to play a bigger role in crafting agency budgets.

Congress is also trying to finalize legislation to address lead-tainted water in
Flint, Mich., and pass a bipartisan bill to promote medical research and
innovation. And House Democrats will be voting in a new leadership team
Wednesday after a delay sought by lawmakers angry over Democrats' poor showing
in this month's federal elections. Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of California is
expected to prevail over Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio, but she has promised some
changes meant to give newer lawmakers a bigger voice in the Democratic caucus,
which has been led for years by the same aging lawmakers and committee chairmen.

A number of other odds and ends await action as well. And throughout, GOP
leaders in the House and Senate will be working with Trump's transition teams to
craft an agenda for next year, when Republicans will control both chambers of
Congress and the White House for the first time in a decade.

"We've got a lot to do," Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Monday on the
Senate floor.

A look at the legislation awaiting action:

SPENDING

Work on 11 of the 12 annual agency spending bills has sputtered and a stopgap
spending measure is keeping the government running until Dec. 9. Republican
leaders have decided to punt the remaining measures into next year, in part
because they may have better chances of winning additional Pentagon spending
from the incoming Trump administration. Another temporary spending bill is in
the works that would keep the government open until the end of March or later.

FLINT'S WATER

A popular water projects measure - including $220 million to help Flint, Mich.,
and other cities repair aging water systems that are poisoned by lead - is in
House-Senate talks.

McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan have promised that Flint assistance will
be approved in the lame-duck session. Michigan lawmakers say they intend to
ensure that happens.

CURES ACT

The House plans to vote Wednesday on legislation beefing up brain, cancer and
other research at the National Institutes of Health and accelerating the Food
and Drug Administration's approval processes for pharmaceuticals and medical
devices. A Senate vote could come next week.

The 21st Century Cures Act would provide $6.3 billion over the next decade,
including $1 billion for state grants for programs for preventing and treating
the abuse of opioids and other addictive drugs. It would also expand government
mental health programs.

The measure is supported by pharmaceutical and other medical industry groups.
Some consumer advocates say it goes too far in relaxing testing standards for
drugs and medical devices.

DEFENSE

House and Senate negotiators hope to wrap up the defense policy bill, which
Congress has passed every year for more than five decades.

House Republicans are seeking to use the must-pass $602 billion defense policy
bill to reverse protections imposed against workplace discrimination by Pentagon
contractors based on sexual or gender orientation. Another battle is over how
much additional money to spend on weapon systems that the Pentagon didn't
request in its budget.

IRAN SANCTIONS

Congress must act to renew a decades-old law that allows the United States to
hit companies with economic sanctions for doing business with Iran. Congress
first passed the Iran Sanctions Act in 1996 and has extended it several times.
The sanctions law, which is separate from the landmark nuclear deal, is to
expire at the end of the year, and there is strong bipartisan support for
legislation that would extend it by another decade. The bill's backers say
extending the law allows the U.S. to punish Tehran should the country fail to
live up the terms of the nuclear accord.

COAL MINERS

Lawmakers are seeking to make progress on a bill to protect health care and
pension benefits for about 120,000 retired coal miners and their families. The
bill would ensure that retired miners receive more than $250 million a year in
benefits now at risk amid the coal industry's steep decline.

Several Republican incumbents - including Sens. Rob Portman of Ohio and Pat
Toomey of Pennsylvania, who both won re-election - supported the bill during the
fall campaign. But McConnell and others are wary of bailing out unionized
workers.

ENERGY BILL

The House and Senate remain far apart as they seek to approve the first major
energy bill in nearly a decade. Prospects for completion look dim as senators
push provisions opposed in the House. These include speeding exports of
liquefied natural gas and long-term authorization for a fund that promotes land
and water conservation.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Nov. 17, 2016, file photo, House Minority Leader Nancy
Pelosi of Calif. speaks on Capitol Hill in Washington. The lame-duck Congress is
gaveling in for its final work session of 2016, and its last under President
Barack Obama, as lawmakers face a Dec. 9 deadline for spending legislation to
keep the government running. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik, file)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Michigan vote certified for Trump, but more recount requests loom

BYLINE:  By NANCY BENAC Associated Press  Julie Pace and Catherine Lucey of the
Associated Press contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 844 words


WASHINGTON - Nearly three weeks after Election Day, Michigan officials certified
Monday that Donald Trump won the state by 10,704 votes out of nearly 4.8 million
to claim all of its 16 electoral votes. There's more wrangling to come, though,
on the final vote count for this contentious campaign.

Jill Stein's Green Party served notice that it would petition for a Michigan
recount even as her party pushed forward with recount efforts in Wisconsin and
Pennsylvania, where Trump won by somewhat wider but still small margins.

Should the results for Trump hold in all three states, as expected, the
president-elect would have 306 electoral votes to 232 for Democrat Hillary
Clinton. It takes 270 to be elected president.

Only if the results were overturned in all three states would Clinton have a
claim on the presidency, and that is widely considered to be out of the
question.

If it's any consolation for Clinton, however, - and it's probably mighty little
- she's is winning the national popular vote. With some votes still being
counted, she is ahead by more than 2 million, about 1.5 percent of the total
counted so far.

Trump, in a series of weekend tweets complaining about the Midwest recount
efforts, said the Green Party was engaged in a "scam to fill up their coffers"
and that "defeated & demoralized Dems" were joining in.

Trump angrily denounced the recounts and now claims without evidence that he,
not Clinton, would have won the popular vote if it hadn't been for "millions of
people who voted illegally." On Twitter, he singled out Virginia, California and
New Hampshire.

There has been no indication of widespread election tampering or voter fraud in
those states or any others, and Trump aides struggled Monday to back up their
boss's claim.

Spokesman Jason Miller said illegal voting was "an issue of concern." But the
only evidence he raised was a 2014 news report and a study on voting
irregularities conducted before the 2016 election.

PUSH CONTINUES

Stein, who won 1.4 million votes nationwide, or about 1 percent of the count,
signaled her determination to keep pushing the Midwest recount efforts, saying
that "Americans deserve a voting system we can trust." As of Monday, she had
raised $6.2 million to finance recounts, according to her campaign website.

"After a presidential election tarnished by the use of outdated and unreliable
machines and accusations of irregularities and hacks, people of all political
persuasions are asking if our election results are reliable," she said in a
statement.

There is no evidence that voter results were hacked or that electronic voting
machines were compromised.

The Clinton campaign, which declined to initiate recounts on its own, said over
the weekend that it would participate in the recounts requested by Stein "to
ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides," in the words
of campaign lawyer Marc Elias.

Stein's campaign said she would file a petition Wednesday for a Michigan
recount, after which Trump would have seven days to file objections. Trump's
margin of victory in the state was a slim 0.22 percent of the total vote.

Michigan Republican Party Chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel said a recount would
be "a waste of time and disrespectful to all Michigan voters."

Chris Thomas, director of the Michigan Bureau of Elections, said the recount
would begin as early as Friday to meet a Dec. 13 deadline. Under state policy,
the recount will be conducted by hand.

He said election officials had heard a lot this year about "so-called fraud ...
without any foundation in fact," and a recount settling that question could
provide one "silver lining."

MORE TO COME

In Wisconsin, meanwhile, the state elections commission approved on Monday a
timeline to start a recount on Thursday. Stein is pushing for a hand count of
the nearly 3 million ballots cast in the state, but the commission left it up to
local election officials to determine the best method.

Stein's Wisconsin recount request included an affidavit from University of
Michigan computer scientist J. Alex Halderman stating that a hand recount is the
only way to determine whether there could have been a cyberattack that affected
the results. He argued that records stored in electronic voting equipment could
have been manipulated in an attack.

The AP updated on Monday its election night vote count in Wisconsin to correct
the totals for both candidates in three separate counties. The updates dropped
Trump's margin over Clinton to 22,460 votes from 27,257 votes, or 0.8 percent of
the total vote. The corrections were made during the regular postelection
canvass of the election-night vote.

In Pennsylvania, where Trump edged Clinton by about 71,000 votes, or about 1
percent of the vote, Stein filed a lawsuit seeking a statewide recount, but it
wasn't clear if the courts had the authority to order one.

Secretary of State Pedro Cortes, a Democrat, said there was no evidence of
voting irregularities or cyberattacks on Pennsylvania's voting machines, 96
percent of which record votes electronically and leave no paper trail.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Wisconsin Elections Commission Chair Mark Thomsen addresses members of
the media regarding a requested recount of the state's presidential election
results following a meeting of the commission in Madison, Wis. Monday, Nov. 28,
2016. (John Hart/Wisconsin State Journal via AP)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump tapping Washington, Wall Street veterans for top jobs

BYLINE:  BY STEVE PEOPLES, JULIE PACE AND RICARDO ALONSO-ZALDIVAR Associated
Press  The Washington Post contributed to this report.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 816 words


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump is tapping a trio of nominees with
deep ties to Washington and Wall Street to fill out his Cabinet, including
former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as Treasury secretary.

On Tuesday, Trump also chose Rep. Tom Price of Georgia to oversee the nation's
health care system, picking the fierce Obamacare critic who has championed
efforts to privatize Medicare. And he selected another veteran Republican,
Elaine Chao, to lead the Department of Transportation.

Mnuchin's official announcement was expected as early as Wednesday, according to
a person familiar with the decision who insisted on anonymity in order to
confirm the pick ahead of time.

Mnuchin, 53, led Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign and
become close with the president-elect and his family. But he has no government
experience, which could prove a hurdle in navigating the tricky politics of
Washington.

Mnuchin would be the latest wealthy investor to join what is already shaping up
to be an extraordinarily well-off Cabinet. Trump also is expected to nominate
industrialist billionaire Wilbur Ross to lead the Commerce Department. Michigan
billionaire Betsy DeVos was named as Trump's pick for education secretary last
week.

Mnuchin made his fortune on Wall Street, first at the New York investment bank
Goldman Sachs and then as the head of his own private-equity fund. His close
ties to an industry he would be in charge of regulating have the potential to
complicate his confirmation and could undermine Trump's populist message.

Price, picked to lead the Department of Health and Human Services after more
than a decade in Congress, helped craft House Speaker Paul Ryan's plan to
privatize Medicare - a position Trump opposed in the campaign. Chao, who was the
first Asian-American woman to serve in a president's Cabinet - she served under
George W. Bush - is married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who said
Tuesday he would not recuse himself from her confirmation.

Price's selection raised questions about the incoming president's commitment to
Medicare, among other popular entitlement programs he repeatedly vowed to
preserve before the election. The Georgia congressman led GOP efforts on Capitol
Hill to transform Medicare into a voucher-like system, a change that if enacted,
would likely dramatically reduce government spending on the health care program
that serves an estimated 57 million people.

Trump did not address Price's position on Medicare in a statement released by
his transition team. The team did not respond to subsequent questions about it.

"Chairman Price, a renowned physician, has earned a reputation for being a
tireless problem solver and the go-to expert on health care policy, making him
the ideal choice to serve in this capacity," Trump said. "He is exceptionally
qualified to shepherd our commitment to repeal and replace Obamacare and bring
affordable and accessible health care to every American."

Trump, in a 2015 interview promoted on his campaign website, pledged not to cut
expensive entitlement programs that Republicans have fought for years to cut to
help reduce the federal deficit.

"I'm not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican. And I'm not
going to cut Medicare or Medicaid. Every other Republican's going to cut," Trump
told the Daily Signal.

He later changed his mind on Medicaid, embracing the GOP concept of turning the
program over to the states with a fixed amount of federal "block grant" funding.

Like any Cabinet official, Price would carry out the wishes of the president.
And a sweeping Medicare initiative would have to go through Congress with some
Democratic support, which would be unlikely.

Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont charged that Price "has a long history of wanting
to do exactly the opposite of what Trump campaigned on."

Trump's team also announced that Seema Verma has been chosen to be administrator
of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

CHAO'S RECORD

Like Price, Chao is well-known in Washington, having led the Department of Labor
for several years.

Chao's record suggests she'd be skeptical of new safety regulations and may
attempt to roll back existing regulations. Under Chao, the Occupational Safety
and Health Administration didn't issue a single significant new safety
regulation for four years, and mine safety inspectors were cut and inspections
reduced, said Thomas McGarity, a University of Texas law professor and author of
"Freedom to Harm," a book about the labor department that includes Chao's
tenure.

Among the pressing issues facing the next transportation secretary will be how
to boost the nation's aging infrastructure so that it can accommodate population
growth and not become a drag on the economy, modernizing the nation's air
traffic control system and ensuring that new transportation technologies are
adopted in a safe manner.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Steven Mnuchin, national finance chairman of President-elect Donald
Trump's campaign, walks to lunch at Trump Tower, Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016, in New
York. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)  FILE - In this Jan. 5, 2016, file photo, Rep. Tom
Price, R-Ga., chairman of the House Budget Committee appears before the Rules
Committee, joined at right by Rep. John Yarmuth, D-Ky., on Capitol Hill in
Washington. Republicans hope that as President-elect Donald Trump's choice to
run the Department of Health and Human Services, Price will preside over the
dismantlement of President Barack Obama's signature health care law. (AP
Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File)  In this Nov. 21, 2016 photo, former Labor
Secretary Elaine Chao arrives at Trump Tower in New York, to meet with
President-elect Donald Trump. President-elect Trump has picked Elaine Chao as
Transportation secretary. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster)  Rep. Michael McCaul,
R-Texas, talks with reporters after a meeting with President-elect Donald Trump
at Trump Tower, Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016, in New York. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
Goldman Sachs COO Gary Cohn, right, is escorted by Madeline Westerhout to a
meeting with President-elect Donald Trump at Trump Tower, Tuesday, Nov. 29,
2016, in New York. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)  Rep. Lou Barletta, R-Pa., smiles as he
talks with reporters after a meeting with President-elect Donald Trump at Trump
Tower, Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016, in New York. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Groups document more than 860 hate incidents since elections

BYLINE:  Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 223 words


WASHINGTON - Civil rights groups are calling for President-elect Donald Trump to
forcefully and publicly denounce racism and bigotry, pointing to more than 860
bias-related incidents recorded in the 10 days following his Nov. 8 victory.

After running a divisive campaign, Trump promised - after winning - to be a
president for all Americans, said representatives of the Southern Poverty Law
Center, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, the National
Council of La Raza and the American Federation of Teachers.

Trump needs to follow through on that pledge and publicly denounce the bias- and
hate-related incidents that popped up around the country, said Richard Cohen,
the Southern Poverty Law Center's president.

"One of our great, great hopes at the Southern Poverty Law Center is that Mr.
Trump mightily disappoints the white supremacists, the white nationalists who
are celebrating his victory now," Cohen said.

"A president-elect has to create a climate that keeps all Americans safe," said
Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers.

In the 10 days following the November election, SPLC said it collected 867
hate-related incidents on its website and through the media from almost every
state, with Hawaii, Wyoming, North Dakota and South Dakota the only exceptions,
most against foreign nationals.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Richard Cohen, president of the Southern Poverty Law Center, right,
speaks during a news conference at the National Press Club in Washington,
Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016. Cohen, along with, from left, Wade Henderson, President
and CEO of The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, American
Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten, Brenda Abdelall, with Muslim
Advocates, and Janet Murguia, the President and CEO of the National Council of
La Raza, called on President-elect Donald Trump to publicly denounce racism and
bigotry. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)  Janet Murguia, the President and CEO of the
National Council of La Raza, speaks during a news conference at the National
Press Club in Washington, Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016. Murguia called on
President-elect Donald Trump to publicly denounce racism and bigotry. (AP
Photo/Susan Walsh)  American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten,
right, on stage with Wade Henderson, President and CEO of The Leadership
Conference on Civil and Human Rights, left, speaks during a news conference at
the National Press Club in Washington, Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016. Weingarten and
others called on President-elect Donald Trump to publicly denounce racism and
bigotry. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)  Brenda Abdelall, with Muslim Advocates, second
from left, speaks during a news conference at the National Press Club in
Washington, Tuesday, Nov. 29, 2016. Abdelall, standing with from left, Wade
Henderson, President and CEO of The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human
Rights, Janet Murguia, the President and CEO of the National Council of La Raza,
and Richard Cohen, president of the Southern Poverty Law Center, called on
President-elect Donald Trump to publicly denounce racism and bigotry. (AP
Photo/Susan Walsh)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

World Briefs

BYLINE:  From news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 463 words


Plane that crashed was out of fuel

The pilot of the chartered plane carrying a Brazilian soccer team told air
traffic controllers he had run out of fuel and desperately pleaded for
permission to land before crashing into the Andes, killing 71 people, according
to a leaked recording of the final minutes of the doomed flight.

In the sometimes chaotic exchange with the air traffic tower, the pilot of the
British-built jet could be heard repeatedly requesting authorization to land
because of "fuel problems." A female controller explained another plane had been
diverted with mechanical problems and had priority, instructing the pilot to
wait seven minutes.

As the plane circled in a holding pattern, the pilot grew more desperate.
"Complete electrical failure, without fuel," he said in the tense final moments
before the plane set off on a four-minute death spiral that ended with it
slamming into a mountainside Monday night.

World chess champion wins third title - Two-time world chess champion Magnus
Carlsen won his third title on Wednesday, defeating Russian challenger Sergey
Karjakin after three weeks of grueling play in the World Chess Championship.

Fans greeted the Norwegian with a "happy birthday" chorus and huge cheers after
his victory. He turned 26 on the same day he beat the Russian, winning two of
four tie-breaking "rapid games."

The grandmasters started Wednesday's chessboard battle with a 6-6 tie after 12
games. They will share a prize of $1.1 million, the winner getting 60 percent.

Gambian leader warns against protests - Gambia's president of more than two
decades is warning that even peaceful protests will not be permitted after
Thursday's election, a move that comes as people are for the first time speaking
out more freely against President Yahya Jammeh's rule.

Jammeh, 51, who took control of this small West African country in 1994, raised
his hands in the air before thousands of singing and dancing supporters at his
final campaign rally late Tuesday.

Jammeh has said his victory is all but assured with divine intervention, and
warned the opposition against protesting.

Castro's ashes start 500-mile journey - Surrounded by white roses and drawn by a
green military jeep, Fidel Castro's ashes began a more than 500-mile journey on
Wednesday across the country he ruled for nearly 50 years.

Just after 7 a.m, an honor guard placed a small, flag-draped cedar coffin under
a glass dome on a trailer behind the Russian jeep. Thousands of soldiers and
state security agents saluted the 90-year-old leader's remains as they rolled
slowly out of Havana's Plaza of the Revolution.

Tens of thousands of Cubans lined the path of the funeral procession, which
retraced the path of Castro's triumphant march into Havana nearly six decades
ago. Castro died Friday.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, center, is greeted by fellow
Fatah members as he arrives during the second day of the Fatah party conference,
in the West Bank city of Ramallah, Wednesday, Nov. 30, 2016. Palestinian Fatah
movement holds its seventh conference in Ramallah with some fourteen hundred
members participating and led by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. The
conference is to elect the party's two main decision making bodies. Arabic reads
" Palestine, Ramallah, November 29, 2016." (AP Photo/Majdi Mohammed)
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas speaks during the second day of the Fatah
party conference, in the West Bank city of Ramallah, Wednesday, Nov. 30, 2016.
Palestinian Fatah movement holds its seventh conference in Ramallah with some
fourteen hundred members participating and led by Palestinian President Mahmoud
Abbas. The conference is to elect the party's two main decision making bodies.
(AP Photo/Majdi Mohammed)  Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas speaks during the
second day of the Fatah party conference, in the West Bank city of Ramallah,
Wednesday, Nov. 30, 2016. Palestinian Fatah movement holds its seventh
conference in Ramallah with some fourteen hundred members participating and led
by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. The conference is to elect the party's
two main decision making bodies. Arabic reads " Palestine, Ramallah, November
29, 2016." (AP Photo/Majdi Mohammed)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                  Home Edition

THE NATION;
Pence's high profile reassures GOP;
Vice president-elect is expected to be a key liaison between Trump and Congress.

BYLINE: Lisa Mascaro

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


Vice President-elect Mike Pence stood before a roomful of House Republicans on
Thursday and asked how many had his cellphone number.

Chuckles of laughter rippled through the private meeting in the Capitol
basement.

"A lot of you do," Pence said, according to those in attendance.

The former congressman is proving to be an effective envoy for President-elect
Donald Trump, and his Capitol Hill visit offered a preview of the crucial role
many believe the outgoing Indiana governor will play as liaison between
lawmakers and the Trump White House.

"He is the secret weapon," said Rep. David Schweikert (R-Ariz.), who was among
those fiscal conservatives initially reluctant to support the party's
presidential nominee. "There's going to be tough moments, and he's someone you
can pick up the phone and call."

Dispatching Pence to Capitol Hill was part of the Trump's team ongoing effort to
reverse the narrative of a rocky presidential transition.

High-profile visitors, many eyeing top Cabinet posts, moved in and out of Trump
Tower in New York, including Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, Wall Street executive
Steven Mnuchin, former New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and several of Trump's
children. South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley was thought to have visited, but was
not observed entering the building by reporters.

Also reportedly ready to meet with the president-elect was 2012 GOP presidential
nominee Mitt Romney, who had called Trump a "phony" and a "fraud" during the
campaign. According to numerous media reports, the pair planned to speak over
the weekend.

On Thursday evening, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was having a
face-to-face meeting with Trump that raised some eyebrows because it went beyond
the congratulatory phone call that usually occurs between a president-elect and
a world leader.

Trump advisors downplayed the session as a private, informal meeting and said
the president-elect was being briefed by advisors about proper diplomatic
protocol during this and other interactions with foreign leaders.

"We realize there is only one president of the United States," Trump spokesman
Jason Miller.

During a newly launched daily conference call to update the news media on the
transition, Miller said that by next week the team will have announced a roster
of aides who will begin contacting various federal agencies to discuss
transition matters. Delays in making those contacts have caused alarm among
some.

"I'm hearing from all these agencies that they're beginning to panic -- that
they've heard from no one on the transition team," said Sen. Claire McCaskill
(D-Mo.). "So I think it's a problem."

Miller said the first "landing team" will focus on national security, reaching
out to officials from the Pentagon, the State Department and other security
agencies. An economic team is promised by Tuesday and a domestic team by
Wednesday, Miller said. Officials said the Pentagon team could arrive Friday.

The transition team has been battling the perception of disorganization and
infighting, particularly after the departure this week of key advisors.

The shake-up purged some of the more respected figures who had been advising
Trump, notably those close to or chosen by the former transition chairman, New
Jersey Gov. Chris Christie.

It also led to speculation about the oversized influence of Trump's son-in-law,
Jared Kushner, whom some blamed for pushing Christie and his allies out. When
Christie was a U.S. attorney more than a decade ago, he successfully prosecuted
Kushner's father on tax evasion and other charges.

Sending Pence to Capitol Hill served as a reminder of one the reasons Trump
chose the even-tempered conservative for his team.

"Especially with his experience in the House and Senate, the friends he has, the
new president not having served ... I think it's going to be a different vice
presidential role," said House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Bakersfield).

Pence attended the morning huddle of House Republicans and later conferred with
Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin. He also met privately with Democratic leaders
Sen. Charles E. Schumer of New York and Rep. Nancy Pelosi of San Francisco.

Pelosi made it clear that House Democrats have "deep concerns" with the
appointment of chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon, the Breitbart News chief who
has been accused of making anti-Semitic remarks and giving a platform to white
nationalists. She asked Pence to urge Trump to reconsider the appointment,
according to Pelosi's spokesman.

In an apparent gesture of support for Bannon, Israel's ambassador to the U.S.,
Ron Dermer, told reporters at Trump Tower on Thursday that Israel looks "forward
to working with the Trump administration, with all of the members of the Trump
administration, including Steve Bannon, and making the U.S.-Israel alliance
stronger than ever." He declined to say why he singled out Bannon.

Like Republicans on Capitol Hill, Pelosi also seemed to view Pence as a figure
in the Trump administration that Democrats could work with more easily.

"You're going to be a very valued player in all of this because you know the
territory," she told Pence, adding that she meant no "disrespect for the
sensitivity and knowledge of the president-elect."

"So in that territory, we will try to find our common ground where we can," she
said. "And, of course, stand our ground when we can't."

--

lisa.mascaro@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ALABAMA Sen. Jeff Sessions, an early supporter of Donald Trump's
presidential bid, with campaign manager Kellyanne Conway at Trump Tower in New
York.  PHOTOGRAPHER:Carolyn Kaster Associated Press PHOTO: SEEKING COMMON
GROUND: Vice President-elect Mike Pence met with congressional leaders Thursday,
including Rep. Nancy Pelosi. His Capitol Hill visit offered a preview of his
role as liaison between lawmakers and the Trump White House. NATION, A6
PHOTOGRAPHER:Andrew Harnik Associated Press

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               Los Angeles Times

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Home Edition

THE NATION;
Immigration case may aid Trump;
A high court ruling on detaining immigrants could strengthen his hand in a
crackdown.

BYLINE: David G. Savage

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; National Desk; Part A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1108 words

DATELINE:  WASHINGTON


A Supreme Court dispute over the government's power to indefinitely jail
immigrants facing deportation has taken on added significance with the election
of Donald Trump, who has vowed to remove millions of foreigners in the country
illegally.

The case, to be argued Wednesday, pits civil libertarians and federal judges in
California against the Obama administration, which is defending the government's
broad power in dealing with immigration.

At issue is whether immigrants fighting deportation have a legal right to a bond
hearing and possible release if they are held more than six months while
awaiting resolution of their case. The immigrants involved include longtime
legal residents as well as some here illegally.

Civil libertarians say indefinitely holding such immigrants violates the 5th
Amendment guarantee that "no person shall be ... deprived of ... liberty ...
without due process of law." In the past, the court has said the word "person"
includes immigrants as well as citizens.

They also argue that many of these immigrants have lived and worked legally in
the United States and are being held for long periods over minor or nonviolent
offenses, including simple drug possession.

Government lawyers counter that federal law mandates that noncitizens convicted
of crimes "shall be detained."

In the past, the Supreme Court has been closely split on rights for immigrants.
In 2001, the justices said the Constitution "entitles aliens to due process of
law in deportation proceedings." By a 5-4 vote, however, they said foreigners
facing possible deportation may "be detained for the brief period" required to
decide their immigration case.

More recently, federal appeals court judges in California and New York have set
six months as the limit for what that "brief period" may constitute. The case
before the high court involves a ruling by the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of
Appeals, which upheld a judge's order in Los Angeles that required the
government to give a bond hearing to deportable immigrants who are held in jail
for more than six months.

Civil liberties advocates say that without a limit of that sort, the government
could wield the threat of indefinite detention against immigrants who might be
pressured to simply give up and return home rather than spend years behind bars
awaiting resolution.

The case has drawn greater attention since Trump's election and may well portend
some of the legal battles ahead under his administration. In his first TV
interview after the election, Trump spoke of arresting and deporting 2 million
to 3 million foreigners who have criminal records.

"What we're going to do is get the people that are criminal and have criminal
records -- gang members, drug dealers. We have a lot of these people, probably 2
million. It could be even 3 million. We are getting them out of our country," he
told CBS' "60 Minutes."

Immigration experts say that number is not limited to people who have committed
felonies or violent crimes, but includes many with lesser offenses, including
traffic violations. To carry out such deportations, federal agents would
probably prefer to have a free hand to arrest and keep these immigrants in jail.

Officials with Trump's transition team did not respond to a request for comment.

Legal experts say a Supreme Court ruling upholding the president's power to
detain immigrants indefinitely would give the new administration greater
leverage in cracking down against illegal immigration.

"I thought this case was important before, but obviously it is more important
with an administration that wants to do even more deportations," said Karen
Tumlin, legal director for the National Immigration Law Center in Los Angeles.
"You would think mandatory detention is for people with very severe crimes, but
it is not. It can be for relatively low-level charges."

Each day, more than 40,000 people are held in immigration jails because they
have a criminal conviction on their records or because they entered the country
seeking asylum, according to the American Civil Liberties Union. The court
orders do not call for "mass release," but only for "individualized hearings,"
said Ahilan Arulanantham, an ACLU attorney from Los Angeles who will argue for
the immigrants on Wednesday.

He said a significant number of the detainees are "lawful permanent residents"
who had families and worked in California, yet were jailed more than a year
before their immigration cases were heard.

The lead plaintiff, Alejandro Rodriguez, was brought to this country as an
infant and obtained lawful status, but was jailed for possible deportation
because of a drug possession and a "joyriding" conviction as a teenager. After
more than three years in jail, he won his immigration case and was released.

Arulanantham says immigrants like Rodriguez should be given a hearing before a
judge and released on bond if it is decided they are not a danger to the
community nor are likely to flee. The court order does not extend to suspected
terrorists and national security threats, he noted.

But lawyers for the Obama administration urged the high court to throw out the
9th Circuit's decision, which they said calls for a "dramatic and wholesale
revision" of immigration laws. They argued for a hands-off approach by judges.
They said the justices should affirm "the long-standing rule that the political
branches have plenary [complete] control over which aliens may physically enter
the United States and under what circumstances."

It's possible the eight justices could divide evenly on the new case. If so,
they are likely to put off a ruling until a ninth justice is confirmed.

Kevin Johnson, dean of the UC Davis Law School, said the election had put the
case in a new spotlight. "I am more concerned with immigration detention in a
Trump administration," he said. "Detention will become commonplace for
noncitizens placed in removal proceedings. And with the backlog in the
immigration courts, it can take years for removal proceedings to be completed."

In their legal briefs for Wednesday's case, government lawyers warned that
allowing these people to be released on bond could allow many of them to escape.
It would be time-consuming and costly if agents were forced to track down people
who had absconded after their release, they said.

The ACLU disagreed, saying the California court orders have been in effect for
four years and have not led to such problems.

It says more than 95% of the people released on bond showed up for their hearing
before an immigration judge.

The high court is expected to rule early next year in the case of Jennings vs.
Rodriguez.

--

david.savage@latimes.com

Twitter: @DavidGSavage

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AN IMMIGRANT detainee at the Adelanto Detention Facility. A
Supreme Court case challenges the government's power to indefinitely detain
immigrants facing deportation. An Obama administration win would give the new
president greater leverage against immigrants.  PHOTOGRAPHER:John Moore Getty
Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Los Angeles Times
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Sunday news shows

BYLINE:  Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A24

LENGTH: 87 words


MEET THE PRESS - 8 a.m., KSDK (5)

Reince Priebus, Republican National Committee chairman and chief of staff to
President-elect Donald Trump; Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y.; Sen. Bernie Sanders,
I-Vt.

STATE OF THE UNION - 8 a.m., CNN

Priebus; Reps. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, Adam Schiff, D-Calif., and Diane Black, R-Tenn.

FOX NEWS SUNDAY - 9 a.m., KTVI (2)

Vice President-elect Mike Pence; Schumer.

FACE THE NATION - 9:30 a.m., KMOV (4)

Pence; Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky.; Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minn.

THIS WEEK - 10 a.m., KDNL (30)

Priebus; Schumer.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Alaskans vow pushback if Trump targets mountain's new name

BYLINE:  By RACHEL D'ORO Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 532 words


ANCHORAGE, Alaska - Among Donald Trump's many promises on his way to the White
House was a tweeted vow to change the new name of North America's tallest
mountain back to Mount McKinley.

President Barack Obama's administration renamed the Alaska peak Denali in a
symbolic gesture to Alaska Natives ahead of the president's visit to the state
last year.

Alaskans long have informally called the mountain Denali - "the great one" in
Athabascan. But the federal government recognized the name invoking the 25th
president, William McKinley, who was born in Ohio and assassinated early in his
second term. McKinley never set foot in Alaska.

In his tweet, Trump called the name switch a "great insult to Ohio."

But if he indeed moves to undo it, Trump can expect pushback from Alaskans.

"We wanted that change for a long time, and now we finally have it, and we need
to leave it alone," said Victor Joseph, president of Tanana Chiefs Conference, a
consortium of 42 Athabascan tribes in Interior Alaska. The organization spent
years advocating for what they consider the 20,310-foot peak's original name.

"It was an insult to the first people of this land when they took away the name
and gave it to somebody else," Joseph said.

It's unclear at this early stage if Trump will take action. Changing the name
would require a presidential executive order or an act of Congress, according to
the federal board that oversees place names.

Troy Eid, chairman of the Indian Law and Order Commission and a member of the
president-elect's transition team, said in an email Tuesday he was not in a
position to comment.

The three Republicans who make up Alaska's congressional delegation either
declined to comment or did not respond to requests for comment. Sen. Lisa
Murkowski - who called for Trump to leave the Republican ticket after the
emergence of a recording of Trump making lewd comments about women - long
advocated for the mountain's Alaska Native name and thanked Obama for embracing
it.

Republican Ohio Rep. Bob Gibbs slammed the name swap as Obama's "constitutional
overreach" and said he would look at trying to prevent it. This week, his
spokesman Dallas Gerber said Gibbs hadn't decided what legislation he'd
introduce in the next Congress.

Alaska had a standing request with the federal government to rename the mountain
dating to 1975, when a state board adopted the Denali name.

Ohio Rep. Ralph Regula, a Republican, then began the tradition of filing
legislation to keep the Mount McKinley name.

Active legislation over the years blocked the federal U.S. Board on Geographic
Names from taking up the issue.

The change came about when Interior Secretary Sally Jewell issued an order
citing a 1947 law that allows her agency to replace names unilaterally when the
board fails to act within a reasonable time.

Legislation seeking to maintain the Denali moniker theoretically could again
stall the process, according to Lou Yost, the board's executive secretary.

Added Interior Department spokeswoman Amanda DeGroff in an email to the
Associated Press: "It would be a mistake to undo something that Alaska and
Alaska Natives have wanted for decades and the President and the Secretary are
proud to have supported."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Governments, elected leaders respond to uptick in hate crime

BYLINE:  Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 259 words


HARTFORD, Conn. - Amid reports of hate crimes and hate speech after the election
of Republican Donald Trump as president, there have been calls from some
governments and elected officials for stronger anti-hate crime laws, a crackdown
on offenders and hotlines for people to report harassment .

Here are some of the steps taken across the U.S.

BIAS HOTLINES

A hotline created by Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey's office last
week to report incidents of harassment or intimidation of minority groups in the
state already has logged hundreds of calls.

Healey, a Democrat, said her office set up the hotline in response to
bias-motivated threats around the country.

Meanwhile, Delaware Attorney General Matt Denn, a Democrat, has urged residents
of his state who believe they are victims of threats based on their personal
characteristics to call the state's Department of Justice.

Hotlines to report hate crimes also have been established in recent days in San
Francisco and Maryland.

LAW CHANGES

Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., has called for tougher federal legislation
against hate crimes. He announced Monday that he planned to submit legislation
that would increase penalties for those convicted of hate crimes and allow those
who report hate crimes to do so anonymously, among other things.

INVESTIGATIONS

In New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo has directed state police to create a special
unit to investigate reports of hate crimes. Cuomo, a Democrat, announced the
initiative Sunday, saying it's in response to what he called "ugly political
discourse."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trump drives teens to demonstrate though they can't vote

BYLINE:  By AMY TAXIN Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 651 words


Yaocihuatl Reyes, a high school senior, didn't pay much attention to the
presidential race until she found her teacher sobbing and her east Los Angeles
classmates terrified that the election of Donald Trump would lead to the
deportation of their families.

At that moment, Reyes, 17, the daughter of a nurse and security guard, with
little political upbringing, was driven to act.

She and a friend asked students from nearby high schools in the predominantly
Latino neighborhood to meet at a park, where they decided to lead a walkout.

They made signs, wrote chants and mapped routes for the march to City Hall days
later. Hundreds took part.

"We just wanted to go and tell our community that we're here for them, we're
scared, too, but we're not going to give up," said Reyes, whose family is in the
U.S. legally. "This walkout was kind of for unity, to unify each other."

Though too young to vote, thousands of high school students from Seattle to
Silver Spring, Md., have taken to the streets since Trump's election to protest
his proposed crackdown on illegal immigration and his rude comments about women.

It is an unusual show of political involvement on the part of young people. And
experts say that kind of engagement can lead to increased activism when they are
adults.

"The election has really promoted a feeling on the part of many people that just
staying silent is being complicit, and so we're seeing a huge uptick in
engagement," said Jennifer Earl, a professor of sociology at the University of
Arizona who researches the internet and social movements.

On the other side of the political divide, students have also rallied in support
of Trump, though in smaller numbers.

The so-called millennial generation - the youngest adult generation - is the
most racially and ethnically diverse in the country now, according to the
Washington-based Pew Research Center.

Nearly half of millennials identify themselves as political independents, more
than in prior generations, according to Pew.

Young people who are politically active and concerned about issues are more
likely to vote once they turn 18, said Joseph Kahne, professor of educational
policy and politics at the University of California, Riverside.

Many teens are using social media to spread the word about demonstrations. The
best predictor of whether a young person attends a protest is whether he or she
is asked to go, Kahne said.

Reyes said she had never even attended a political event until this year, when
she asked her mother to take her to a rally for Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., who
was running as a Democratic presidential candidate.

Oregon teen Cole Sandlin said he, too, had never attended a political rally
before organizing one at his high school. He and a friend ordered flags online
to support Trump, affixed them to their trucks and gathered in the parking lot
before class on Election Day. The rally drew about 30 students.

"We thought, this is basically our first election that we're involved in, that
we ought to do something to show our political views," said Sandlin, who turned
18 shortly after the election and likes Trump's promises to revamp health care
and trade.

Sandlin said he had long been interested in politics and grew up watching the
news with his father, a farmer in Silverton, Ore. He said he planned to work on
the farm after graduation but would keep up on political issues.

"If there was something I felt compelled to share my opinion, I wouldn't have a
problem doing that," he said.

Nor would Reyes, who plans to attend college next year and major in political
science, inspired by Sanders' campaign. She said she also wanted to organize a
community rally in east Los Angeles with speakers on topics such as criminal
justice reform.

"It was kind of bizarre. I didn't think people would come," she said of the
walkout. "I just kept telling my friends, 'Wow, we actually did this. People
actually came. It worked.' "

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Thursday, Nov. 10, 2016, file photo, high school
students protest in opposition of Donald Trump's presidential election victory
in San Francisco. Thousands of high school students have taken to the streets in
cities across the country since Donald Trump's election to protest his proposed
crackdown on illegal immigration and his vulgar comments about women. It's an
unusual show of political involvement on the part of young people who can't even
vote yet. And experts say it can lead to increased activism when they are
adults. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg, File)  FILE - In this Nov. 14, 2016 file photo,
high school students look on during a walkout from classes in Seattle to protest
the election of Donald Trump as president. Though too young to vote, thousands
of high school students from Seattle to Silver Spring, Md., have taken to the
streets since Trump's election to protest his proposed crackdown on illegal
immigration and his rude comments about women. (AP Photo/Elaine Thompson, File)
FILE - In this Nov. 14, 2016 file photo, students from Garfield High School
march to rally with other students who walked out to protest the election of
Donald Trump as president in Seattle. Though too young to vote, thousands of
high school students from Seattle to Silver Spring, Md., have taken to the
streets since Trump's election to protest his proposed crackdown on illegal
immigration and his rude comments about women. (AP Photo/Elaine Thompson, File)
FILE - In this Nov. 20, 2016 file photo, President-elect Donald Trump waves as
he arrives at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in Bedminster,
N.J. Thousands of high school students from Seattle to Silver Spring, Md., have
taken to the streets since Trump's election to protest his proposed crackdown on
illegal immigration and his rude comments about women. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster,
File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Federal Reserve minutes raise expectations for December hike

BYLINE:  Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 348 words


WASHINGTON - Federal Reserve officials believed earlier this month that it would
be appropriate to raise a key interest rate "relatively soon," with some arguing
for a boost at the Fed's next meeting in December in order to preserve the Fed's
credibility.

Minutes of the Nov. 1-2 meeting released Wednesday show that Fed officials were
moving closer to raising rates for the first time in nearly a year. Some
officials argued that if the Fed did not raise rates at its December meeting, it
ran the risk of harming the central bank's credibility given the many signals it
had sent about an impending hike.

Private economists who widely expect the Fed would boost its benchmark rate by a
quarter-point at its Dec. 13-14 meeting said there was nothing in the minutes to
change their forecast.

"The Fed meeting minutes say that the case for a rate hike keeps on getting
stronger and stronger," said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG
Union Bank in New York.

"A rate hike is coming in December."

Rupkey and other analysts said the open question is how many further increases
will occur in 2017. Many analysts said they were still looking for just two
hikes next year. But others said the Fed might make three hikes if
President-elect Donald Trump succeeds in pushing a big tax cut package and
infrastructure bill through Congress.

"Fiscal stimulus under the Trump administration could lead to stronger growth in
output and prices, prompting the Fed to tighten policy more rapidly going
forward," said Sara Johnson, an economist with Global Insight.

At the November meeting, the central bank left its benchmark rate unchanged in a
range of 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent, where it has been all year. There had been
little expectation of a rate hike then.

Economists believed that the Fed would not want to risk destabilizing financial
markets with a rate increase just before voters went to the polls.

The decision was approved on an 8-2 vote. Federal Reserve bank presidents Esther
George of Kansas City and Loretta Mester of Cleveland dissented because they
favored an immediate rate increase.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The Federal Reserve Building on Constitution Avenue in Washington.
(Associated Press file photo)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                 FINAL EDITION

StoryCorps urges conversations on election this Thanksgiving

BYLINE:  By MATT SEDENSKY Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 512 words


NEW YORK - That electoral elephant in the room threatening political tension
this Thanksgiving? StoryCorps believes it could be a unifying main course.

The oral history project's "Great Thanksgiving Listen 2016" is urging Americans,
particularly teens, to use the holiday weekend to record a conversation with a
grandparent or another elder on their feelings about the election, their hopes
and fears for the country and their thoughts on how to bring people together in
a time of division.

Dave Isay, StoryCorps' founder and president, said the project could strengthen
ties across the country when the chasm is deep.

"We're living in a moment where the divide is just so massive," and the
discussions will give people a chance to reflect on what happened in the last
two weeks, he said. "I can't think of anything more important right now than
listening to each other and finding a way forward."

StoryCorps debuted the Thanksgiving project last year, prompting
intergenerational conversations, though without the election theme. The result
was staggering: more than 50,000 recordings, as many as StoryCorps amassed in
its first decade of operation combined.

The "Great Thanksgiving Listen" is partnering with organizations including the
American Federation of Teachers and the National Education Association, as well
as school districts and educators in all 50 states, many of whom will assign a
conversation to students. The hope is to meet or exceed the volume of recordings
from 2015.

Anyone at least 13 years old is invited to take part in the "Great Thanksgiving
Listen" by downloading the StoryCorps app and inviting someone to take part.
Isay said throughout StoryCorps' history, people have delved into the most
personal and tense moments of their lives: "We've never seen one of these
conversations go wrong."

Stories have popped up around the country of people dreading a Thanksgiving
spent with relatives with different political leanings than their own, and of
the fraught political divide prompting some to skip the holiday altogether.
StoryCorps conversations aren't aimed at diving into the particulars of the
political debate, but simply listening to the feelings of another. Because of
that, and because the conversation is generally between two people who love and
respect each other, Isay said there's little risk of acrimony.

"They're not talking about political issues," he said, "they're talking about
the people they care about."

StoryCorps was founded in 2003, and for most of its existence, participants went
to a recording booth to share their story. After winning a TED Prize last year,
though, StoryCorps launched an app that allows people to record and upload their
conversations from anywhere, with the files being preserved by the Library of
Congress.

Isay says his 13 years working on his brainchild have left him more hopeful than
ever, and that this week's conversations could be an example across the country.
"It's time that the bubbles start to break and we start to listen to each other
again and recognize how much we have in common," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILE - In this Nov. 12, 2015 file photo, teacher Carol Mowen, right,
works with student Kirsten Delauney preparing to participate in the oral history
project StoryCorps at Washington County Technical High School in Hagerstown, Md.
The oral history project's "Great Thanksgiving Listen 2016" is charging
Americans, particularly teens, to use the holiday weekend to record a
conversation with a grandparent or another elder on their feelings about the
election, their hopes and fears for the country and their thoughts on how to
bring people together in a time of division. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky, File)
FILE - In a March 25, 2015 file photo, StoryCorps founder Dave Isay demonstrates
how to record a story using a smartphone app in the Brooklyn borough of New
York. The oral history project's "Great Thanksgiving Listen 2016" is charging
Americans, particularly teens, to use the holiday weekend to record a
conversation with a grandparent or another elder on their feelings about the
election, their hopes and fears for the country and their thoughts on how to
bring people together in a time of division. Isay said the project could
strengthen ties across the country when the chasm is deep.(AP Photo/Mark
Lennihan, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Guest lineups for the Sunday news shows

BYLINE:  Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A35

LENGTH: 135 words


MEET THE PRES 8 a.m., KSDK (5) Kellyanne Conway, adviser to President-elect
Donald Trump; Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky.; Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio.

STATE OF THE UNION 8 a.m., CNN Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt.; Conway

FOX NEWS SUNDAY 9 a.m., KTVI (2) Ryan; Reince Priebus, Republican National
Committee chairman and chief of staff to Trump.

FACE THE NATION 9:30 a.m., KMOV (4) Marc Edwards, an environmental engineering
expert at Virginia Tech who helped uncover the lead scandal in the water system
in Flint, Mich.; Jahana Hayes, the Connecticut teacher chosen as National
Teacher of the Year; retired Los Angeles Dodgers broadcaster Vin Scully; John
Shinholser and Honesty Liller of the McShin Foundation, which fights substance
abuse; Bryan Stevenson of the Equal Justice Initiative.

THIS WEEK 10 a.m., KDNL (30) Sanders; Conway.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                 bondbuyer.com

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Transportation Bankers Seeking Details in Trump's Plan

BYLINE: Jim Watts

SECTION: INFRASTRUCTURE Vol. 1 No. 1

LENGTH: 631  words


DALLAS -- Transportation finance professionals are taking a wait-and-see but
optimistic attitude to the election of Donald Trump as the 45th president of the
U.S.

Many of the presenters at The Bond Buyer's Transportation Finance/P3 Conference
in Dallas were skeptical of the tax credits that Trump proposed to jump-start $1
trillion of infrastructure spending but grateful for a renewed interest in road
and transit funding.

"There have been some very intriguing developments for transportation at the
national level," said David Narefsky, a partner at Mayer Brown LLP and
co-chairman of the conference. "This industry needs to come to an agreement on
how we can help shape this infrastructure policy that seems somewhat unformed at
this time."

The outlines of the Trump infrastructure policy are not clear, other than a
policy paper released by the campaign in October, Narefsky said.

"There are a lot of ideas in there but no details yet," he said. "There are a
lot of unknowns but all the information we do know about Mr. Trump's policy on
tax reform indicates there could be more investment dollars available for
transportation."

Trump's election will focus more attention on the nation's infrastructure needs,
said Tim Keith, chief executive officer at Texas Central Partners, which wants
to build a privately financed high-speed rail line between Dallas and Houston.

"Mr. Trump's election has reinvigorated the national conversation about
infrastructure," Keith said. "It is paradigm shift from a leadership
perspective."

Trump is a different type of politician, said Karen Hedlund, director of P3s for
Parsons Brinkerhoff.

"When was the last time you heard a Republican say we needed more money for
infrastructure?" she said. "Democrats don't want to put money into a public
project that makes money for private investors, and Republicans don't want to
put public money into anything."

The good news is that both presidential candidates focused on how transportation
infrastructure construction and maintenance can create high-paying jobs, said
Ron Davis, managing director at Hilltop Securities.

"We're in a new era," Davis said. "The issue of the tax credits is something
that we are still trying to quantify. Republicans and Democrats agree that
transportation is a must, but the question is how we get there."

P3 proponents are looking for more flexibility from the Trump administration on
methods that could open more projects up to private investors and speed the
procurement process, said Ted Hamer, managing director at KPMG Corporate Finance
LLC.

"Everybody is trying to interpret what the Trump plan means," he said. "We're
looking for more flexibility, like giving all states the authority to toll their
existing interstate capacity and getting federal loans into the financing plan
quicker than it happens now."

David Leininger, chief financial officer of Dallas Area Rapid Transit, said the
next few years could be interesting for transit agencies.

"It will be challenging," he said. "Some of the names being floated for
secretary of transportation don't give me much comfort."

The linchpin of Trump's 10-year, $1 trillion "American Infrastructure First"
would be $137 billion of tax credits to be authorized by Congress.

The tax credits would be available only to investors in revenue-producing
projects, such as toll roads, toll bridges, and airports, said Trump economics
advisor Peter Navarro, a business professor at the University of California at
Irvine.

Companies could bring their overseas earnings into the U.S. at a reduced income
tax rate of 10% rather than the current 35%. The tax credits would allow
companies to avoid any tax liability by investing $122 million of the
repatriated profits into tolls roads, toll bridges, and other revenue-producing
projects, Navarro said.

URL: http://www.bondbuyer.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Muni Market Survey Sees Muted Trump Effect

BYLINE: Chip Barnett

SECTION: MARKET NEWS Vol. 1 No. F392

LENGTH: 541  words


DALLAS - A Trump presidency will bring a reduction in the attractiveness of the
municipal bond tax exemption, according to the majority of respondents to a
market survey at The Bond Buyer's Transportation / P3 conference in Dallas.

When asked how attractive the municipal bond tax-exemption would be to investors
given some of President-elect Trump's proposed changes to the tax code, 53% said
it would be reduced though still somewhat attractive, 33% said it would be
broadly the same, and 14% said it would be significantly reduced. No one thought
it would have no effect.

Respondents to the Fitch Live Market Survey, conducted during a panel
discussion, didn't see much change in U.S. economic performance in Trump's first
year. Thirty-seven percent said the economy would see tepid growth while 35%
said growth would be about the same as this year. Only 10% saw an economic
contraction while 18% expected strong growth.

Members of the panel discussion included moderator David Wylie, director at John
Laing; Saavan Gatfield, senior director at Fitch; Ted Hamer, managing director
at KPMG, James Preusch, chief financial officer of the Alameda Corridor
Transportation Authority; and Nicholas Sourbis, managing director at National
Public Finance Guarantee Corp.

Several questions focused in on the uncertainty regarding economic policy
following the U.S. presidential election. Hamer said he expected little change
to be felt in the market.

"As we look ahead to 2017 as to what the new administration may or may not do,
it's anyone's guess right now," he said. "By and large, 'the status quo will
prevail' is probably a safe assumption."

Respondents were evenly split when asked how confident they were that Trump
would honor his promises on infrastructure investment in the U.S. over the next
few years. Thirty-two percent said they were somewhat confident while 32% said
they were not very confident; 23% were very confident and 12% said they were not
confident at all.

Preusch said he came down on the side of being somewhat confident.

"I really see infrastructure as an area where it's far easier to keep the
campaign commitments as to opposed to some of the other ideas that we have heard
touted," he said. "This is one that for the most part is seen as a positive; it
would be helpful to the economy, would be helpful to the employment and would
produce benefits that are ongoing. We are still living with many benefits based
on infrastructure from the Eisenhower Administration and it's time to revitalize
some of that as well."

When asked which sector would be affected most positively by the new
administration, 59% picked roads followed by 17% who said airports and ports;
this was followed at 8% each by those who named transit and rail, water and
social infrastructure.

An overwhelming 76% of the survey respondents said they expect the Federal
Reserve policy makers to raise interest rates at their December meeting. Only
20% said the Fed would keep rates unchanged while 3% said the it would cut
rates.

When asked how municipal bond issuance in the transportation sector will compare
in 2017 with this year, 43% expected it to increase, 34% saw it falling below
the 2016 level, and 16% said it would be about the same; 7% said they didn't
know.

URL: http://www.bondbuyer.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Transportation Bankers Seeking Details in Trump's Plan

BYLINE: Jim Watts

SECTION: INFRASTRUCTURE Vol. 1 No. 34615

LENGTH: 631  words


DALLAS -- Transportation finance professionals are taking a wait-and-see but
optimistic attitude to the election of Donald Trump as the 45th president of the
U.S.

Many of the presenters at The Bond Buyer's Transportation Finance/P3 Conference
in Dallas were skeptical of the tax credits that Trump proposed to jump-start $1
trillion of infrastructure spending but grateful for a renewed interest in road
and transit funding.

"There have been some very intriguing developments for transportation at the
national level," said David Narefsky, a partner at Mayer Brown LLP and
co-chairman of the conference. "This industry needs to come to an agreement on
how we can help shape this infrastructure policy that seems somewhat unformed at
this time."

The outlines of the Trump infrastructure policy are not clear, other than a
policy paper released by the campaign in October, Narefsky said.

"There are a lot of ideas in there but no details yet," he said. "There are a
lot of unknowns but all the information we do know about Mr. Trump's policy on
tax reform indicates there could be more investment dollars available for
transportation."

Trump's election will focus more attention on the nation's infrastructure needs,
said Tim Keith, chief executive officer at Texas Central Partners, which wants
to build a privately financed high-speed rail line between Dallas and Houston.

"Mr. Trump's election has reinvigorated the national conversation about
infrastructure," Keith said. "It is paradigm shift from a leadership
perspective."

Trump is a different type of politician, said Karen Hedlund, director of P3s for
Parsons Brinkerhoff.

"When was the last time you heard a Republican say we needed more money for
infrastructure?" she said. "Democrats don't want to put money into a public
project that makes money for private investors, and Republicans don't want to
put public money into anything."

The good news is that both presidential candidates focused on how transportation
infrastructure construction and maintenance can create high-paying jobs, said
Ron Davis, managing director at Hilltop Securities.

"We're in a new era," Davis said. "The issue of the tax credits is something
that we are still trying to quantify. Republicans and Democrats agree that
transportation is a must, but the question is how we get there."

P3 proponents are looking for more flexibility from the Trump administration on
methods that could open more projects up to private investors and speed the
procurement process, said Ted Hamer, managing director at KPMG Corporate Finance
LLC.

"Everybody is trying to interpret what the Trump plan means," he said. "We're
looking for more flexibility, like giving all states the authority to toll their
existing interstate capacity and getting federal loans into the financing plan
quicker than it happens now."

David Leininger, chief financial officer of Dallas Area Rapid Transit, said the
next few years could be interesting for transit agencies.

"It will be challenging," he said. "Some of the names being floated for
secretary of transportation don't give me much comfort."

The linchpin of Trump's 10-year, $1 trillion "American Infrastructure First"
would be $137 billion of tax credits to be authorized by Congress.

The tax credits would be available only to investors in revenue-producing
projects, such as toll roads, toll bridges, and airports, said Trump economics
advisor Peter Navarro, a business professor at the University of California at
Irvine.

Companies could bring their overseas earnings into the U.S. at a reduced income
tax rate of 10% rather than the current 35%. The tax credits would allow
companies to avoid any tax liability by investing $122 million of the
repatriated profits into tolls roads, toll bridges, and other revenue-producing
projects, Navarro said.

URL: http://www.bondbuyer.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                American Banker

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

How Trump's Tax Plan Could Favor Some Banks Over Others

BYLINE: Kristin Broughton

SECTION: NATIONAL/REGIONAL Vol. 1 No. 227

LENGTH: 939  words


The Republican sweep in the elections has put corporate tax reform within reach
for the first time in decades, but some banks stand to benefit far more than
others.

There are a number of reasons tax savings could vary widely among banks, with
tax-planning strategies first among them, analysts say. Smaller regional banks -
such as the $43 billion-asset Silicon Valley Bank or the $21 billion-asset
PacWest - could see the biggest upside to earnings. That is because they
currently pay high effective rates, and have fewer strategies in place to lower
their total tax bill.

Bigger banks, however, could find themselves in a bind. Many have invested in
municipal securities that provide federal tax benefits, or have made heavy use
of tax-saving tools such as special credits and bank-owned life insurance.
Whether those benefits will remain intact or hold the same value as lawmakers
begin tinkering with the tax code is an open question.

"If all of those things are eliminated, what does it do to our banks?" said John
Kinsella, vice president of tax policy at the American Bankers Association. "I
think the key thing it comes down to is: If those go away " there would be some
implications."

The debate could push large regionals, in particular, to look at whether
tax-advantaged lines of business will continue to drive profits higher over
time.

"There is definitely a law of unintended consequences," said Chris Marinac, an
analyst with FIG Partners. He said he will be listening closely to investor
presentations in the coming weeks, looking for details on how bank executives
are thinking about looming tax changes.

To be sure, it's too soon to tell how tax reform will play out in Washington,
though Republicans have signaled it will be a priority in the coming year.
President-elect Donald Trump made tax cuts a cornerstone of his campaign; he has
proposed to lower the corporate tax rate to 15% from the current 35% and to
eliminate many deductions.

In some ways, House Republicans got a head start on the effort this summer, when
they introduced a blueprint for overhauling the tax code. The proposal differs
slightly from the Trump tax plan, including by calling for a 20% corporate rate.
It would also eliminate special credits and deductions.

Projections about legislative details are difficult.

Deductions for business-interest expenses could be on the chopping block. There
is also the possibility that progressive lawmakers propose penalties on big
banks, such as the tax on Wall Street trading that Democratic presidential
candidate Hillary Clinton proposed during her campaign.

Still, investors are riding a wave of optimism, hoping that policymakers will
hammer out the details in the coming year and that lower corporate rates will
take effect in 2018.

"The market is way ahead of this," Marinac said, noting that investors haven't
yet accounted for the slow and uncertain nature of legislative action. "It's a
little concerning because people are so excited."

The Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Bank Index this week hit its highest point since
before the 2008 financial crisis, led in part by a sharp rise in the shares of
regional banks. The index has risen about 15% since the Nov. 8 election.

Analysts say that across-the-board tax cuts could be a significant boon for
smaller regional banks. Many have chosen to maximize profits in recent years by
simply focusing on asset growth, rather than investing in ways to lower their
tax bill. As a result, they currently pay a higher effective rate than their
larger peers.

If the corporate tax rate is lowered to 20% in 2018, midsize banks - such as
Silicon Valley or the $59 billion-asset Zions Bancorp. - could see their
earnings per share jump more than 25% during the calendar year from previous
estimates, according to a recent report from Evercore. That assumes all other
factors are held equal.

Larger regionals - such as the $433 billion-asset U.S. Bancorp - could also
receive a smaller but still significant boost to earnings of 18.6%.

"Corporate tax reform is going to be a significant benefit," said John Pancari,
an analyst with Evercore, in a Nov. 21 video message to investors. "Banks that
may not have been using their securities portfolio, through municipal bond
investments, to lower their tax rate will see some incremental relief to a
greater degree."

Investors may of course be overly optimistic. Plans for a splashy tax overhaul
could be tempered by a range of other factors, including the impact of lower tax
revenue on the deficit.

But even if lawmakers settle on a smaller corporate tax cut, or if a large cut
is phased in slowly over time, the banking industry will still come out ahead.

For instance, lowering the corporate rate to 30% in 2018 would increase earnings
at small regional banks by about 8% from prior estimates, according to a recent
report from FIG. The report included banks such as the $21 billion-asset TCF
Financial.

A KBW report issued Wednesday, which presumed a 25% corporate rate in its
estimates, said small banks would enjoy the biggest jump in earnings. Yet big
banks could feel a pinch from reductions in the value deferred tax assets, the
report said.

No matter how you slice it, banks across the industry face major changes in the
coming years in the way they manage their tax bills, observers said.

"I think, at a minimum, it will change the financial calculation when
determining what a rate of return is to the shareholders," Kinsella said.

Whether the market remains as enthusiastic about tax reform in the coming
months, as lawmakers begin the messy process of negotiations, is another
mystery.

"The devil is in the details," Marinac said.

URL: http://www.americanbanker.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                  Property Casualty 360 - National Underwriter

                               November 18, 2016

AIMU keynote: William R. Berkley on current events and marine insurance

BYLINE: By Rosalie L. Donlon, PropertyCasualty360.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 771  words


"We've survived worse things in the past, and we'll survive this too."

That's the way William R. Berkley, founder and executive chairman of Greenwich,
Conn.-based insurer W.R. Berkley Corp., opened his keynote speech Thursday at
the 118th annual meeting of the American Institute of Marine Underwriters. "But
it's still an exciting time to be in the insurance business."

Reviewing the global economy, Berkley noted that the U.S. election and Brexit
are just the beginning of a global trend with the rest of Europe not too far
behind. "The population is unhappy with the status quo and the social system,"
he added, also pointing out Nigeria's proposal to make owning U.S. dollars
illegal, and India's action in withdrawing large currency notes from
circulation.

"China is in turmoil because it's not growing fast enough to support its
population," Berkley said, "especially the increasing numbers of retired
military and their pensions. The continuing problem in the Middle East is likely
to increase pressure to build the Dakota Access Pipeline as a way to reduce
dependency on foreign oil, and all of Africa is in turmoil."

All these factors are likely to increase risk for marine insurance, which is
currently dealing with the challenges of larger container ships with more cargo,
larger cruise ships with many more passengers and crew, as well as a slower
economy that means fewer goods being transported around the world.

Berkley was asked for his opinion of the effect of Brexit on London financial
markets and the insurance industry. "If you're in London, where can you move
to?" he said. "And people really don't want to relocate, as we found out when we
considered moving employees from Delaware to Des Moines."

London was a strong center for financial services for hundreds of years before
there was a Common Market and a European Union, and it's likely to remain so,
Berkley said.

Election concerns

Addressing the topic of the 2016 presidential election, Berkley said that Trump
wants to be known as a great president, even if he isn't really sure what that
means yet. His life is now dramatically different, but he hasn't yet fully
grasped the limitations the office of the president of the United States will
impose. Every minute of his life is now scheduled, and that will be a challenge
for him, he added.

For the next 12 to 18 months, Berkley predicted, the economy will get better.
Trump will make deals with Congress to pass a budget and begin infrastructure
repairs. He pointed out that in business Trump has always had smart advisers,
and he's likely to do so in the White House. "Will he listen to them? Who
knows?" he said.

Related: What does a Trump presidency mean for the P&C industry?

On the subject of immigration, there are likely to be some changes, but not as
dramatic as Trump has talked about, Berkley said. Most people agree that there
is a problem with some illegal immigrants who are also criminals or who have
committed serious crimes in the United States, and those are the immigrants that
Berkley believes Trump will target, not every immigrant. "He's a pragmatic man,"
Berkley pointed out. "Don't confuse his rhetoric with reality."

Effect of outside capital

Outside capital is coming into insurance in the form of investments from pension
funds and hedge funds, Berkley said, earning investment income and underwriting
profit. But they're operating under the fallacy that underwriting profit is
automatic when it's not. Success in the insurance industry comes back to
underwriting skill and expertise, he added. Capital and expertise are both
needed, but in different ways.

If interest rates go up, alternative capital won't leave the insurance industry,
Berkley predicted. But a catastrophic loss - something like a new asbestos
problem or multiple hurricanes - will make them leave. "If you don't have a long
enough view, you'll be driven out," he said.

Insurance is a long-term business in a short-term world that moves at the pace
of text messages, Berkley observed, but results don't happen that quickly, which
makes pricing effectively a challenge. "The most exciting parts of this business
require the most expertise," he said, referring to the opportunity to insure
risks that are one-off or unusual.

Berkley believes that artificial intelligence and emerging insurance technology
will provide better data to make better underwriting judgments. As an example,
he described investigators using artificial intelligence to detect art forgeries
with 99 percent accuracy. "AI is exciting but frightening because we're all
going to have to change the way we do things and change is hard," he concluded.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 The National Underwriter Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


             National Underwriter Life & Health/Financial Services

                                December 1, 2016

What the Trump election results mean

BYLINE: By Allison Bell

SECTION: ISSUES December 1, 2016

LENGTH: 721  words


I think the 2016 U.S. presidential elections resulted showed that Donald Trump
is a better public speaker than Hillary Clinton; that people are tired of Obama
administration officials talking to us as if we're cranky 5-year-olds who object
to eating our peas; and that Clinton had a hard time responding in a credible
way to criticisms of her emails and performance as a secretary of state.

Related: 5 Trump-era health policy losers, and 5 possible winners

I think the results also showed that government policies are changing the
country's economic framework in ways that are squeezing wealth out of people in
the traditional, non-tech economy.

On the surface, the national economy looks stronger than it was in 2009. Real
estate prices have firmed up. Banks look solvent. Unemployment has come down.

In many small towns and rural areas, and even in parts of thriving big cities,
the picture looks different. Places where businesses use cash from the stock
market to bring in imports or to sell high-tech products and services look rich.
Other places look poor. In many of the poor places, just about the only
surviving businesses are a bank branch, a few restaurants, a hair salon, a
doctors' office, a ragged discount store that's trying to compete with Walmart,
a Walmart that's struggling to compete with Amazon.com, and an insurance agency
office that's expected to sponsor every Little League baseball league within 40
miles.

Even in the rich places, publicly traded companies focus, mainly, on putting in
outposts of the same supermarket chains, drug store chains, fast food
restaurants and cell phone shops. The storefronts are telling us that , even in
the rich places, people have little time or money to do much other than eat, get
medical care, and play with their phones.

People selling life and health products see the effects of the hollowing out of
traditional-economy places every day.

Ordinary people working in the traditional, private-sector economy have no time
to think about the future and little confidence in the stability of their jobs.
They may have $5 for coffee today, but they can't promise they'll be able to pay
$5 per day for life insurance, disability insurance or long-term care insurance
next year.

Sudden, government-driven framework changes are imposing an obvious economic tax
on people like you. Some new Affordable Care Act, Dodd-Frank or fiduciary
standard regulation has been turning your life upside down every other month.

In other sectors, central bankers have set interest rates low to prop up home
prices and stock prices. Federal agencies have imposed tough labor,
environmental, bank loan and securities rules to protect workers, the
environment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and investors. Trade
negotiators have eased trade rules, because of a firm belief among economists
that free trade helps everyone, by creating manufacturing jobs in poor
countries, and lowering product costs and creating professional services jobs in
rich countries.

The government uses tax money from all workers, including traditional-economy
workers, to provide incentives for researchers and companies to push technology
forward. Many of those technology advances further squeeze the employers in the
traditional economy.

All of those government-driven economic framework moves tend to favor
new-economy employers over traditional-economy employers. Many of those moves
might be necessary. We all like breathing clean air. None of us want to see con
artists swindling investors. And any government efforts to compensate people for
economic framework changes may be too complicated, too expensive or too
ineffective to be of any practical use. It's not clear, for example, how much
official efforts to protect workers displaced by free trade agreements have
helped.

But the traditional-economy voters screamed on Nov. 8 that they want
policymakers to do something about the new-economy squeeze, not just put out
press releases talking about how, overall, everything looks good. Those voters
don't live in overall. They live in a place with a boarded up strip mall and a
factory that's had a for-rent sign in the window for 10 years.

Related:

All state insurance commissioners win re-election

Dems rule commissioner races, split on governors

Have you followed us on Facebook

Are you following us on Facebook

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 The National Underwriter Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


             National Underwriter Life & Health/Financial Services

                                December 1, 2016

Leonard Cohen and the ACA

BYLINE: By David A. Saltzman

SECTION: ISSUES December 1, 2016

LENGTH: 708  words


Poet and musician Leonard Cohen passed away Nov. 7. Inarguably one of the most
influential voices in popular culture, with a career that spanned nearly six
decades, he captured very large concepts and constructs with a powerful economy
of language. Watching the presidential election the following day, I couldn't
help but recall some of his more pointed lyrics - especially as applies to
health care reform, version 2.0.

In a volume of selected poems he wrote, "Ring the bells that still can ring.
Forget your perfect offering. There is a crack in everything. That's how the
light gets in." Until the election, the health care "crack" wasn't large enough
to accommodate any efforts at reforming the ACA. Post-election, it is fair to
say that the crack is now a chasm. Still, the question remains: What light - and
how much of it - will actually get in?

Related: Disconnected connectors

President-elect Trump has put forward a seven-point plan as his administration's
starting point. Paul Ryan and the U.S. House of Representatives' Republicans
have "A Better Way" (that is the actual name of their plan). Both begin with
repealing the existing law. Politico reports that, "... leading advocacy groups
[are] ready to wage 'total war' to defend President Barack Obama's universal
health care program and his domestic legacy."

So, what does this all mean? Just days after the election, the president-elect
opined that keeping the provisions prohibiting exclusions for preexisting
conditions and for allowing those up to age 26 to remain on their parent's plans
should remain in place. As Mr. Cohen noted, "Even damnation is poisoned with
rainbows." Rather than accept that some existing ACA provisions might make it
into a new design, the punditocracy pounced, pointing to a broken campaign
promise to repeal and replace.

At this early stage of the discussion, if we strip away the partisan trappings,
what is actually being proposed? Mr. Trump suggests that we must eliminate the
individual mandate, modify existing laws to permit sales across state lines,
allow individuals to fully deduct health insurance premiums, allow for wider
adoption of HSAs, require price transparency from all health care providers and
facilities, turn Medicaid into a block grant for the states and remove barriers
to entry into free markets for drug providers.

Mr. Ryan and the House Republican's plan calls for more choices, lower costs and
greater flexibility while protecting patients with preexisting conditions. "A
Better Way" also calls for rejecting the PPACA's approach of forcing people into
Medicaid, which it calls, "... a broken insurance program that has historically
failed lower-income families." They want to streamline the process for getting
new procedures and drugs into the mainstream faster than the 14-year time period
it currently takes. They also dance around the unsustainability of Medicare with
some broadly-worded statements unencumbered by a great deal of specificity,
calling for protecting the program for today's seniors and strengthening it for
future generations. One presumes that some portion of the privatization argument
will appear as details emerge - a suggestion that lights up most democrats
brighter than the White House Christmas tree.

Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a staunch proponent of the ACA
says, "We've got the battle of our lifetime ahead of us." Sen. Schumer and
Democrats in the senate say that they will, "... fight tooth and nail against
any attempt to repeal it.' Others see the battle as a way to preserve the
president's legacy, but looking pragmatically at the reality that is today's ACA
with its attendant failed and distressed components, it is difficult to find
much to love.

Yes, the overall rate of uninsured Americans has decreased, and that is a good
thing. But a quarter of the reported 20 million with new insurance were already
eligible for Medicaid and we have spent $45 billion to get there. Costs are
through the roof and personal responsibility amounts are breathtaking.

If we are fortunate, those in D.C. will ring the bells that still can ring so
that some light can, at last, get in.

Related:

Friends without benefits

When the preferable is not available

Are you following us on Facebook

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 The National Underwriter Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                  BenefitsPro

                                 December 2016

2016 Industry Timeline

BYLINE: By Erin Moriarty-Siler

SECTION: ISSUES December 2016

LENGTH: 1248  words


January

Early in 2016, President Obama blocked a Republican-led measure that would have
repealed the Affordable Care Act. Just a month later, the House failed to
override the president's veto. Speaker Paul Ryan still called the effort a
success, saying, "We have now shown there is a clear path to full repeal without
60 votes in the Senate."

Bernie Sanders, vying for the Democrat presidential nomination, revealed his
"Medicare for all" plan, which would have built on the ACA to distribute a
single-payer health system across the country. The call for single payer echoed
throughout 2016, with Colorado adding a ballot measure to its November election,
hopeful its passage would encourage other states to follow suit; however,
Amendment 69 was defeated during the Nov. 8 elections.


February

Associate Justice Antonin Scalia died unexpectedly on February 13. President
Obama nominated Merrick Garland for the open position in March, but Garland
still hasn't received a confirmation hearing, with GOP leaders continually
blocking attempts to fill the ninth position. The future of the Supreme Court
will be up in the air, presumably, until Donald Trump takes the White House in
January 2017, and even then, nothing is certain.

In an effort to assuage Bernie Sanders supporters, Hillary Clinton said she
would push for a state public option that would give states the ability to
pursue a single-payer health system.

The Zenefits drama continued in 2016. CEO Parker Conrad was ousted,  David Sacks
took over, and California regulators began investigating. Despite attempts to
right the ship, Zenefits struggled to recover fully, cutting its valuation in
July to $2 billion, more than half of its previous $4.5 billion value. In
October, reports surfaced of flailing revenue goals - only $60 million, despite
projections of $450 million.

March

Donald Trump kicked off March by unveiling his seven-point health care plan,
with the first point being "Completely repeal Obamacare." Shortly thereafter,
the bipartisan group Committee for a Responsible Budget estimated 21 million
people would lose health coverage under Trump's plan. In September, the
Commonwealth Fund upped that estimate to 25 million Americans.

The CDC said opioids should be a "last resort." The spotlight on opioid
addiction continued throughout the year, with many government leaders, insurers,
and Americans calling for solutions.

Etsy and Fidelity jumped on the growing bandwagon of companies offering paid
parental leave. In April, San Francisco and the state of New York passed
parental leave laws. Barclays expanded its parental leave benefits in June by
offering six weeks to non-primary caregivers and 16 weeks to primary caregivers.
In October, Chobani began offering six weeks of paid leave to parents.

April

Insurance companies offering coverage through the ACA began penalizing agents
for low-performing plan sales.

The Department of Labor finalized the fiduciary rule, requiring financial
advisors to be fiduciaries. This was done by expanding the "investment advice
fiduciary" definition under ERISA. The response was swift, with many financial
advisors arguing the rule would create significant challenges for their firms.

UnitedHealth began its ACA exit, starting a domino effect of other insurers
leaving the marketplaces. Humana reduced its sales in May, while Aetna exited
state exchanges that same month, and then quit most of its remaining markets in
August. In November, Anthem threatened to leave the ACA in 2018 if financial
returns didn't get better. On the other hand, in July, Cigna indicated interest
in expanding to more ACA marketplaces.

May

Worry surrounding the Zika virus built as the Olympics approached; however,
there were zero reports of any Zika infections in Rio. Still, WHO and CDC issued
travel warnings and advised pregnancy delays. The virus eventually made its
American debut in Florida, but no widespread occurrence has occurred. Currently,
no viable vaccine is available.

Another ACA co-op failed, leaving only 10. This number continued to fall,
reaching seven by August.

The state of Missouri denied the Aetna-Humana merger in some of its markets,
with the state department of insurance saying the merger would hurt sales of
individual, small group, and group Medicare Advantage. In June, the state of
California called for the federal government to stop the Anthem-Cigna merger.
Perhaps an inkling of things to come for insurance megamergers?

June

President Obama vetoed resolutions passed by the House and Senate to kill the
fiduciary rule, much to the chagrin of Rep. Phil Roe, R-Tenn., who said the veto
"threatens the retirement security of millions of working families."

After much anticipation, House Republicans revealed their own plan for health
care reform. Some of the plan's highlights include: removing the ACA insurance
mandate for individuals and businesses, transforming Medicaid into a block grant
program, creating high-risk insurance pools, and raising the Medicare
eligibility age from 65 to 67.

Despite exit polls indicating the opposite, the United Kingdom voted to withdraw
from the European Union. Not only did Brexit draw parallels to America's own
presidential election, it also stirred debate about U.S. financial markets and
trade.


July

Both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton picked running mates - Mike Pence and Tim
Kaine, respectively - and confirmed their party's nomination at the RNC and DNC.

Hillary Clinton showed off her new health plan, chock full of ideas to sway
Bernie supporters to her side. It included proposals to allow the over-55 crowd
to opt into Medicare early and for a federally-run public option insurance
program. In a show of support, Bernie Sanders encouraged his staunch followers
to trust Clinton on health care.

The Department of Justice sued to block the Aetna-Humana and Anthem-Cigna
megamerger deals. The fight continued between the insurers and the feds, with
Aetna CEO Mark Bertolini threatening to abandon ACA marketplaces in response to
the DOJ's antitrust case in August.

August

The Obama administration issued guidance on Affordable Care Act improvements for
the next president. The suggestions largely focused on the stability of ACA
private insurance exchanges, and were critical of special enrollment abuse.

September

The uninsured rate dropped to an unprecedented 8.6 percent, a historic low.
However, a report written by House Republicans claimed 12 state-run ACA
exchanges were poised for collapse, saying Oregon, Hawaii, New Mexico, and
Nevada have already given up on running their own exchanges due to financial
problems.

October

The ACA took center stage, beginning with former president Bill Clinton calling
Obamacare "the craziest thing in the world." Days later, news surfaced that ACA
enrollment would slow significantly in 2017. Then, the big hit: Rising ACA
premiums were confirmed at a 25 percent hike, opening an opportunity for
repeal-and-replace proponents to pounce on the failures of the ACA.

November

In a stunning upset, Donald Trump won the general election to become the 45th
President of the United States.

December

With a Donald Trump presidency around the corner, America pondered a future
without the ACA, a staple claim of Trump's campaign. While some outside of his
inner circle have said a total repeal-and-replace strategy is unlikely, Trump
advisors and members of GOP leadership indicated the ACA's repeal would be a
priority within the President-elect's first 100 days. Its replacement has
remained unclear.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                Copyright 2016 The National Underwriter Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Thanksgiving primer: How to survive talking politics while eating turkey

BYLINE: By Matt Canham The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 781 words


The highly divisive presidential race, complete with its unexpected outcome,
unleashed emotions ranging from fear and sadness to relief and elation.

First came the Facebook spats among relatives. Next up: Thanksgiving.

That turkey-fueled holiday in which family members, many who don't see one
another regularly, are in the same home for hours at a time. For some, it will
be irresistible to talk about President-elect Donald Trump's plans or Hillary
Clinton's defeat.

That's stressing out Amber Sorensen, of Orem. Come Thursday, the 26-year-old
Democrat and her husband will drive over to her parents' Provo home. About 25
relatives will be there, and she's already clashed with some of them online.

"I am very worried and I have no idea how to handle it," she said. "Mostly I'm
just working on a graceful way to say, 'I don't want to talk about this right
now.' "

Julie Pugmire, of West Valley City, will host about 15 family members on
Thanksgiving. She's an enthusiastic Trump backer, but among her guests will be
people who voted for Clinton, independent Evan McMullin and Libertarian Gary
Johnson. She fully expects presidential politics to come up, but that doesn't
mean there should be any arguments.

"We don't all share the same views," he said, "but we don't have to to be able
to get along."

If she is mistaken and her guests start to jab at one another, she plans to
"tell everyone to grow up and get over it and act like adults."

Laurel and Mike Hansen have had enough slaps from Republican family members
about President Barack Obama. The thought of what might come now that Trump
surpassed Clinton is too much to bear.

The Murray couple are skipping the standard 30-person family meal. Instead, they
are joining two friends for dinner at the Grand America Hotel.

"It is difficult that you can't even go to a family dinner without hearing all
of these horrible things about the candidate you voted for," Laurel Hansen said.
"I'm just sick of it."

Thanksgiving tensions are real and likely exacerbated by the recent election,
which was "poisonous" and "prolonged," said David Schramm, an assistant
professor at Utah State University who focuses on parenting, marriages and
family relations.

He offers a few suggestions on how to handle this holiday, starting with
recognizing why everyone gets together in the first place.

"It is not as much what occurs at the White House that makes a difference in our
daily lives, it matters what happens in our homes," he said. "We could be
grateful for what we do have and what we do enjoy."

He acknowledges that isn't always easy to do.

"Our brains are wired to focus on threats, to focus on negativity and it tends
to get stuck in our brain longer," he said. "It takes more work to focus on the
positive, to find common ground."

And when an argument begins, heart rates go up. Once it reaches about 100 beats
a minute, most people lose control of the part of their brain that provides
empathy and compassion and the argument can turn into a fight.

Schramm says in those moments it is best to take a few deep breaths and go for a
walk. If necessary, leave.

If a clash is expected, he says, setting ground rules can be helpful, adding
that politics either won't be discussed or would be discussed in one room,
giving others a chance to migrate to another space if they don't want to
participate.

If possible, try to make a joke, so long as it doesn't devolve into sarcasm,
which could worsen the situation.

Above all, Thanksgiving "should be a safe place where everyone feels welcome and
appreciated."

For Fran Pruyn, of Salt Lake City, her Thanksgiving will be smaller than normal.
She's traveling to a town outside of Boulder, Colo., where she normally
celebrates with a sister, who is in her 60s, and Pruyn's nephews' families.

One of Pruyn's nephews isn't invited this year, fallout from a post-election
blowup. The nephew is a Trump supporter, while Pruyn's sister backed Clinton.

"It's the holidays,' she said, a nod to the stereotypical family bickering that
can take place this time of year. And yet, she believes the election makes this
different.

"It is raw and the [emotional] investments on both sides were so incredibly
deep. The left feels betrayed, and I don't know what the right feels because I'm
not on that side," she said. "We are all raw. It would be better if Thanksgiving
was six months off."

So is her plan to avoid talk of Trump and the election with the family that does
gather Thursday? No way, she said.

"We are going to talk about nothing but it."

ccc This story was informed by sources in the Utah Public Insight Network. To
become a news source for The Salt Lake Tribune, go to www.sltrib.com/upin.

mcanham@sltrib.com

Twitter: @mattcanham

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Trump aides: Meeting with Mitt Romney a chance to hear advice

BYLINE: By Thomas Burr And Lee Davidson The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 551 words


Washington - President-elect Donald Trump's meeting with one-time foe Mitt
Romney is aimed more at hearing Romney's thoughts on world affairs and less
about offering a job in the administration, Trump aides say.

Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who now lives in Utah, harshly
criticized Trump as unfit for office in March and in subsequent comments. He is
expected to sit down with Trump at his golf course in Bedminster, N.J.,
Saturday.

Sean Spicer, the top Republican National Committee strategist helping with
Trump's transition to the White House, told reporters that Trump wants to hear
ideas from everyone, including rivals.

"What that meeting suggests, and the meetings you've seen over past couple of
days, is the president-elect wants the best and brightest people to put this
country forward: people who supported him, people who didn't support him,"
Spicer said, likening the conversation with Romney to one Trump had with former
Secretary of State Henry Kissinger.

The Romney meeting, Spicer said, is "just an opportunity to hear his ideas and
his thoughts."

Trump is considering a role for Romney in the administration, according to news
reports, including for him to serve as secretary of state.

Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch told reporters in Salt Lake City on Friday that he talked
to Trump the previous day, in part, about Romney.

"He is very high on Mitt," Hatch said. "Anybody would want to have Mitt on their
team. I just hope they can get together because they have had a real split over
the years."

Hatch added that Trump "feels badly about some of the dialogue they had together
where he was kind of tough on Mitt." Also, "He wants to have a friendship there,
so Mitt is coming back all the way from Hawaii to be with him."

Hatch said, "I hope they can get together because these are two giants in the
Republican Party and two giants in politics, and they can help each other."

The president-elect is also meeting this weekend with the former chancellor of
schools in the District of Columbia, an education activist, a retired Marine
Corps general, the head of the Carl's Jr. franchise and the co-owner of the
Chicago Cubs, Todd Ricketts.

Trump spokesman Jason Miller said that the meetings are not only about filling
specific roles in his administration but also hearing from the "best, brightest
and most-qualified people."

Romney awkwardly accepted Trump's endorsement of his 2012 presidential bid but
staunchly opposed Trump during the Republican primaries this year, going as far
as to call him a "phony" and a "fraud."

Trump responded by noting that he has a lot of friends but "Mitt Romney isn't
one of them," and then questioning if Romney was really a Mormon. He is. Trump
also referred to Romney as a "choke artist" and a "loser."

After Trump's upset victory, Romney did extend best wishes to the
president-elect.

Trump's meetings since the election have been held in private and reporters have
been kept away from even seeing the president-elect beyond his victory speech.
Romney's meeting with Trump in New Jersey is likely to be in private as well,
with reporters temporarily holding court in a "drainage ditch," according to a
pool report, as Trump's aides initially did not allow journalists into the
private golf course. The media eventually was allowed on the property.

tburr@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Letter: Electoral College keeps voter turnout low

SECTION: PUBLIC FORUM; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 90 words


Following the presidential election, there has been much discussion of the
inequities associated with the Electoral College system. However, one issue
seems to have been largely ignored: its negative effect on voter turnout.

My son said he couldn't be bothered to vote because Utah is heavily Republican
and all its Electoral College votes would go to Trump whether he voted or not.
The reverse situation must apply to Democratic states.

Another example of voter suppression and reason to eliminate the Electoral
College.

John Fox

Salt Lake City

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Orrin Hatch is cheerleader for Trump's early moves

BYLINE: By Lee Davidson The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 463 words


Sen. Orrin Hatch cheered Donald Trump's initial moves as president-elect, using
a Utah speech Friday to praise him for reaching out to opponents and softening
some extreme stances ccbut still shaking up Washington.

Hatch lauded Trump specifically for reaching out to Mitt Romney, who loudly
criticized him as unfit during the campaign, and the Utah senator hoped aloud
that the 2012 GOP presidential nominee will join Trump's Cabinet. Hatch also
defended Trump's controversial selection of Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., as
attorney general.

"It's good that we've had a shake-up in Washington like I haven't seen in my 40
years in the U.S. Senate," Hatch told a luncheon of the U.S. Global Leadership
Coalition at the Grand America Hotel.

"Don't sell Donald Trump short," he told the group. "He didn't become a
visionary by luck."

Hatch also defended Sessions, a longtime Republican colleague in the Senate,
against quick opposition by Latino groups for his past anti-immigration stances
and by some civil-rights groups for his attacks on them in the past.

"Give me a break. Jeff's a fine fellow," Hatch said. "Naturally being from the
South, the far left constantly tries to make all of them less than what they
are. But he's a very intelligent attorney. He's been a mainstay on the Judiciary
Committee. ... I hope the Democrats don't make a fuss about it."

He told the Global Leadership Coalition ccc which supports trade and strategic
investment to build diplomacy ccc that his conversations with Trump lead him to
believe he may soften campaign stances against some trade agreements, contending
they would hurt U.S. workers.

"I've had chats with the president-elect. I think he's softening a bit on some
of the things he did say," Hatch said. "Our economic and security interests are
closely tied to our ability to open markets and expand opportunities. ... We
have some work to do to make that case, including it seems with some in the
incoming administration."

Hatch added that many in Washington are nervous because Trump owes nothing to
the longtime establishment, and they worry about whom he may appoint to his
administration.

"It'll be very interesting to see who he picks," he said. "It's going to be an
interesting time."

Hatch added he is sure Trump will pick good judges, as shown by a list he
released of people he said he will consider for the U.S. Supreme Court (which
included Utah Sen. Mike Lee and his brother, Utah Supreme Court Associate Chief
Justice Thomas Lee).

"I can guarantee you that Trump is going to appoint people who believe in the
Constitution," he said.

For those who still may be worried, Hatch quipped, "Our county can survive
anything, and it will survive whoever is president." He added he "would be
saying that about Hillary [Clinton] as well" had she won.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Francis Wilkinson: California becomes the capital of liberal America

BYLINE: By Francis Wilkinson Bloomberg View

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 891 words


Now more than ever, California is the capital of liberal America. It will be a
kind of Democratic government-in-exile starting in January, when a popular
liberal president is succeeded by a 70-year-old who built his campaign on
resentment of two of the Golden State's most ornate pillars: the creative class
and multicultural ideals.

Gov. Jerry Brown, D, who signed into law a graduated $15 minimum wage (by 2021)
earlier this year, has tried to advance progressive policy with pragmatism.
According to the state Legislature's nonpartisan fiscal analysis, California now
has sufficient budget reserves to "weather a mild recession without cutting
spending or raising taxes through 2020-21."

California's liberal instincts are nonetheless unmistakable.

On Nov. 8, the state voted in favor of new regulations on guns, including
mandatory background checks on ammunition purchases. Voters supported legalized
recreational marijuana, extended a state tax surcharge on the wealthy, imposed a
$2-per-pack tax on cigarettes and adopted local housing and transportation
measures along with local tax increases and bond proposals. (The vast majority
of tax and bond proposals on California ballots were approved.)

While they were at it, Californians returned large Democratic majorities to the
Legislature in Sacramento, where representatives work alongside the exclusively
Democratic statewide elected officials, including the governor. For good measure
they sent Democrat Kamala Harris, part Asian, part black, all Californian, to
the U.S. Senate.

If Hillary Clinton is looking for a burst of sunshine amid the storm clouds, she
knows where to find it. In preferring her over Trump by a 2-to-1 margin, with
votes still coming in, Californians gave Clinton a buffer of three million votes
ccc accounting for all of her national popular vote margin over Trump and then
some.

Trump, said Democratic consultant Bill Carrick, "never got any traction here."

The president-elect has work to do if he wants to make the terrain less
inhospitable. The state's marquee industries, Hollywood and Silicon Valley, have
little interest in his 1950s manufacturing fantasies, and each has much to lose
if a clumsy misstep on trade complicates global film distribution or tech supply
chains. Both industries were founded with heavy contributions from immigrants.

In the governor's race to succeed Brown in 2018 (he is 78 and term-limited),
Trump will likely be assigned the role Obama played in the 2016 GOP presidential
race: piccata. "Every California politician who has dreams of being president
will make their national image by standing up to Trump," said Thad Kousser, a
political scientist at the University of California, San Diego. "That's good
politics in California, and good politics in the Democratic primary for
president."

Conflict could come sooner than 2018 if Trump pursues policies he championed in
the campaign. After Trump's "60 Minutes" appearance Sunday, in which he vowed to
deport two million to three million undocumented immigrants, California Senate
Leader Kevin de Leon mobilized. "We will protect our people and prosperity," he
said in a statement short on political ambiguity. Los Angeles Police Chief
Charlie Beck added that his officers don't enforce laws "based on somebody's
immigration status."

The state won't prove any more eager to abandon its aggressive environmental
standards, or the more than 12 million Californians who get their health care
through the state's partnership with Medicaid. But Trump and a Republican
Congress could squeeze the state on both counts, increasing the relative costs
of being green and the absolute costs of delivering health care.

Predictably, given its polar distance from Washington's reactionary fervor,
there are stirrings of secession. You can quibble with the state's incessant
bragging about its rank among world economies ccc sixth place seems to be the
current claim ccc but no other state comes close. California's population is now
more than 39 million, up more than 5 percent since 2010. That's enormous
compared with sparsely populated conservative states ccc Wyoming has fewer than
600,000 people ccc that routinely blunt California's power in the U.S. Senate.

If California continues growing, and its federal influence doesn't, eventually
something's gotta give.

One quarter of California blacks and more than one in five Hispanics are poor.
If the state becomes a magnet for undocumented immigrants fleeing a federal
crackdown, its problems will surely grow. California's dynamic industries, and
universities, contribute to inequality, although progressive taxation of wealth
generated in Silicon Valley and Hollywood also helps to mitigate it.

The contrast with Washington, already pronounced, will grow starker if
Republicans succeed in delivering huge tax cuts to the wealthy and spending cuts
to the poor, which is Speaker Paul Ryan's agenda.

Given total Republican control in Washington, Ryan's plan can be enacted without
Democratic votes, as can much of the gutting of Obamacare. Both decisions
contain enormous political risk, given the certainty that millions would suffer.
If Republicans go off the deep end in Washington, either through ideology,
incompetence or the political wormhole that is Trump himself, California will
beckon as a liberal antidote. The state seems ready for a fight.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday

Paul Rolly: Clinton won the popular vote and lost the election, so Utah won't
change a thing

BYLINE: By Paul Rolly The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 645 words


One positive outcome of the 2016 presidential election is that the Utah
Legislature will have one less bill to consider during its 45-day session
starting in January.

That means fewer debates, fewer committee hearings, fewer opportunities for
legislators to bluster and ccc best of all ccc fewer lobbyists.

It's settled.

The way the election turned out, there now will be no bill introduced to have
Utah join the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact.

The NPVIC is a concept that started about 10 years ago and now has 10 states on
board, along with the District of Columbia.

Those NPVIC members ccc Maryland, New Jersey, Illinois, Hawaii, Washington,
Massachusetts, Vermont, California, Rhode Island, New York and Washington, D.C.
ccc have all passed legislation committing them to the compact, which doesn't
become effective until enough states have joined to represent 270 electoral
votes, the number needed to win the presidency in the Electoral College.

The commitment is that the members pledge all their electoral votes to the
candidate who wins the popular vote.

The argument against the Electoral College vote determining the president has
gone on for nearly two centuries and it has ramped up every time the winner
popular vote did not get the presidency.

It has happened five times: In 1824, Andrew Jackson won the popular vote but
received less than half of the electoral votes. He lost out to John Quincy
Adams.

A few decades later, in 1876, Democrat Samuel Tilden won the popular vote but
lost the election by one electoral vote to Republican Rutherford B. Hayes. In
1888, Democrat Grover Cleveland also clinched the most popular votes in the
country but lost to Republican Benjamin Harrison in the electoral college,
233-168.

In 2000, Democrat Al Gore won the popular vote but lost the electoral vote to
Republican George W. Bush in a race so close it was decided by the U.S. Supreme
Court.

And it has happened again. Democrat Hillary Clinton won the popular vote but,
because of the electoral vote, Republican Donald Trump is the president-elect.

Here are some ramifications of the Electoral College winner trumping the popular
vote winner.

Adams was an unpopular president and lost to Jackson in a rematch four years
later. Hayes was also a one-term president who, because of a back room deal
between the Democrats and Republicans to end the contention and award the
Republican the presidency, the Democrats got their way in the South and gave us
Jim Crow for the next 80 years. Harrison was defeated by Cleveland in a rematch
four years later. Bush won re-election in 2004, but left office with an
extremely low approval rating after years of war in Iraq and an economy in a
deep recession.

Perhaps because in all the elections in which the electoral vote trumped the
popular vote the Democrat was on the losing end, only states controlled by
Democrats have signed on to the NPVIC.

But Utah was poised to become the first Republican state to join the compact
until the election happened. And that changed everything.

Rep. Steve Eliason, R-Sandy, was preparing a bill to have Utah join the compact.
Sen. Howard Stephenson, R-Draper, was looking to do the same thing in the
Senate. Sen. Curt Bramble, R-Provo, who just completed a term as president of
the National Conference of State Legislatures, was going to be the Senate
sponsor of Eliason's bill.

The argument was that if the president was elected by popular vote and the
Electoral College no longer mattered, Utah as well as other non-swing states
would become a player in national elections because every vote would count.

But if the NPVIC had been in place this year, Utah would have been compelled to
give its six electoral votes to Hillary Clinton.

How would that have gone over?

Checking in with sources the last few days, I've learned that the NPVIC is dead
on arrival in the Beehive State.

Better luck next time.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday

Trump praises 'great' meeting with Romney but no word of a job offer

BYLINE: By Thomas Burr The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 371 words


Washington - President-elect Donald Trump praised a "great" meeting with Mitt
Romney on Saturday, though there was no word on whether the one-time
presidential candidate-turned-Trump critic had been offered a job in the
incoming administration.

Trump, who is reportedly considering Romney for secretary of state, said the sit
down with Romney "went great," though he didn't elaborate.

Romney, the 2012 GOP nominee whose official residence is in Utah, where he lead
the 2002 Winter Olympics, and who had harshly slammed Trump during the
Republican primaries as a "phony" and "fraud," said Saturday he appreciated the
meeting and looks forward to the "coming administration and the things that it's
going to be doing."

"We had a far reaching conversation with regards to the various theaters in the
world where there are interests of the United States of real significance,"
Romney told reporters at Trump's golf course in Bedminster, N.J. "We discussed
those areas, and exchanged our views on those topics ccc a very thorough and
in-depth discussion in the time we had."

Romney did not answer any questions before jumping into a waiting SUV.

Romney has not said whether he voted for Trump in the general election but had
urged Republicans to vote for other candidates in the GOP primaries. Romney also
said a Trump presidency would bring about "trickle down racism," while Trump
called Romney a "loser" and a "disaster" who choked in 2012.

The pair were all smiles in New Jersey on Saturday, though.

Kevin Madden, a former top aide to Romney, told CNN on Friday that Romney wants
Trump to be successful for the country.

"One of the things that drives Gov. Romney is a sense of duty and I think that
sense of duty is what's driving him to help President-elect Trump in any way he
can as he puts together a government," Madden said on CNN's "New Day." "I think
he recognizes that there is that type of outreach going on with
President-elect's transition team."

Trump also visited with former chancellor of the District of Columbia schools,
Michelle Rhee, and the former commandant of the Marine Corps, James Mattis. Rhee
has been rumored as a possible secretary of the Education Department and Mattis
as defense secretary.

tburr@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday

Letter: I am ready for a noble fight

SECTION: PUBLIC FORUM; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 216 words


I stood paralyzed at the Sheraton Hotel watching the presidential election
returns. When North Carolina went to the Republican candidate, I realized the
election was not going the way I had excitedly anticipated. I could not sleep
that night. The nightmare was all too vivid, unsettling and, as events unfolded,
terribly real.

In the coming days, I was shaky. I had trouble eating. I broke out in hives. I
know personally the effects of trauma. It's visceral. It's tumbling into
darkness without the benefit of a ledge to hold onto.

But there's also climbing back up, and the sooner that happens, the sooner I
move forward. And forward is fighting for core values I find lacking in the
individual elected and the administration he is assembling. It means continuing
the fight for environmental protections, and safeguarding dignity for all
individuals. It means sheltering communities the new administration threatens to
purge.

This election goes much deeper than Democrats and Republicans fighting for
election. This election is about principles I am not willing to compromise. I
will not fall into line. I will not lay down my beliefs. I will step to the tune
of my drummer and to the tune of the values I hold close. I'm ready for the
noble fight. Hives are not forever.

Christine Fraizer

Salt Lake City

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Albert Hunt: Trump needs to earn mandate from wary public

BYLINE: By Albert Hunt Bloomberg View

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 846 words


The tens of thousands of nonviolent protesters taking to the streets against
Donald Trump are exercising their constitutional rights. But they are wrong to
declare that Trump is not their president: He won legitimately and, support him
or not, he will be president of all Americans.

That's not sufficient for his chief cheerleaders. Republican National Committee
Chairman Reince Priebus, Trump's designated White House chief of staff, asserted
that the president-elect won a "historic landslide" and Kellyanne Conway, his
campaign manager, claimed he won a "mandate" from the voters.

Trump did win the Electoral College, making his elevation to the presidency
beyond dispute.

That's it. David Wasserman, analyst at the Cook Political Report, estimates
Hillary Clinton will win the popular vote by more than 2 million, four times the
margin achieved in 2000 by Al Gore, who also lost the Electoral College.

In the history of U.S. presidential elections, no president-elect has ever lost
the popular vote by as much as Trump. This is not the stuff of a mandate.

If his slim margin in Michigan holds, Trump probably won 306 electoral votes.
That is far fewer than the number of electors captured by George H.W. Bush, Bill
Clinton and Barack Obama. This is not the stuff of landslides.

Unfortunately, little that Trump has done since Nov. 8 has reassured skeptics or
helped close the wounds, most of which he opened. The transition is chaotic,
reflecting a leader who has given little thought to the responsibilities and
requirements of leading a great nation.

The appointment of the alt-right provocateur Steve Bannon to top White House
counselor, and of Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala. ccc who was rejected for a federal
judgeship in the 1980s after allegations that he had made racist comments ccc as
attorney general, further rattled already unnerved racial and religious
minorities. Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, whose marriage to the
president-elect's daughter is his chief qualification, is playing a major role
in assembling the new administration. Reports suggest he was responsible for
dumping the transition chief, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who
successfully prosecuted Kushner's father for tax evasion and jury tampering a
decade ago.

This doesn't engender confidence. Neither does the range of people under
consideration for top cabinet posts. Rudy Giuliani for secretary of state?

It's not unusual for a president-elect to shade or adjust campaign promises and
policies to reflect realities. But no one has seemed to wing it the way Trump
is.

He could be backtracking on a huge effort to deport undocumented immigrants: He
now says he may only go after criminals, which the Obama administration already
is doing, though Trump estimates the number of those who could be rounded up at
2 million to 3 million, possibly 10 times the actual level. He's pulling back on
repealing all of Obamacare, but may be open to breaking his campaign vow not to
cut back on Medicare. Let's not even get into the crossed signals on national
security.

Even the tough anti-lobbying restrictions, which the transition team says bars
lobbyists from participating, contain a giant loophole: Candidates need only
deregister as lobbyists to qualify to be appointed to oversee the area they
lobbied.

Some Trump supporters rationalize the protests by drawing an analogy to the
concerns expressed after Ronald Reagan was elected in 1980.

That's a false parallel. Then, many Democrats worried about the Republican
president-elect's campaign pronouncements and positions. But he had served eight
years as governor of California, which he led with common-sense conservatism,
and he wasn't a hater and had surrounded himself with experienced adults such
James Baker.

Apart from policy concerns, Trump is coming into office after hurling insults at
women, blacks, Hispanics, Muslims and people with disabilities. There is no one
around him who remotely resembles Jim Baker.

Conway charged that the protests "degrade the office of the presidency." Someone
should tell her about the First Amendment. Trump initially blamed "professional
protesters, incited by the media." But the reactions and protests were
spontaneous. Sixth- and seventh-graders at an inner-city charter school in
Washington were in tears the morning after the election. There has been a surge
of racist attacks on social media and even on elite university campuses. The
worry is that Trump's behavior has given greater license to this ugliness.

Only by his words, actions, appointments and something almost unheard of for
him, a few apologies, can he start to mitigate the damage.

Post-election public opinion surveys capture the situation. The
president-elect's favorable ratings have risen a bit, to 42 percent, according
to the latest Gallup poll, but 55 percent of the public still has an unfavorable
view, the highest negative for an incoming president in modern history. In a
Washington Post poll, only three of 10 respondents said Trump had a mandate for
his agenda.

He has to earn confidence and trust; he's not off to an auspicious start.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Rolly: What Mitt, Mia, Jackie, Jason, Orrin and others should be thankful for

BYLINE: By Paul Rolly The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 552 words


Happy Thanksgiving. I hope you have a good day Thursday and enjoy a wonderful
start to this year's holiday season.

In honor of the day, here is a list of things for which certain prominent folks
in our midst could be thankful:

- Mitt Romney ccc That he might have a possible position in the Cabinet of the
politician he called a "con man" and a "phony." Everyone deserves a second
chance. Right?

- Gov. Gary Herbert ccccccc That he has espoused enough alternative public
positions on Donald Trump that he can point to whichever one makes him look
best, depending on how Trump does as president.

- Rep. Mia Love ccc That she finally can be bipartisan and magnanimous now that
the Republicans control everything and the Democrats have no say.

- Rep. Rob Bishop: Drill, baby, drill.

- House Speaker Greg Hughes ccc That he was the first prominent Utah politician
to endorse Trump. You may now kiss his ring.

- Salt Lake City Mayor Jackie Biskupski ccc That she has three years to make
voters forget her first year in office before she has to run for re-election.

- The Patrick Henry Caucus ccc That nobody remembers who you are or that you
named your group after a patriot who opposed the U.S. Constitution.

- Utah football coach Kyle Whittingham ccc That there is always next year.

- Rep. Jason Chaffetz ccc Having Hillary Clinton to kick around for another four
years. (Pay no attention to that man behind the curtain in the White House.)

- David Duke ccc Finally! A president who understands.

- Sen. Jim Dabakis ccc Being the only Democrat in the Senate who doesn't have to
worry about leadership responsibilities.

- Rust Belt voters ccc That Trump will clear out the immigrants and open up all
those jobs they took at McDonald's, Wendy's and Burger King.

- Rep. Chris Stewart ccc Mussolini.

- The Koch brothers ccc It's payback time.

- Utah Democratic Chairman Peter Corroon ccc No partisan elections for two
years.

- Utah Republican Chairman James Evans ccc Gerrymandering.

- Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson ccc No more Aleppo questions.

- Presidential candidate Evan McMullin ccc Newfound name recognition in Utah.

- Attorney General Sean Reyes ccc Having predecessors like John Swallow and Mark
Shurtleff.

- Sen. Howard Stephenson ccc His very own state school board.

- Salt Lake County Mayor Ben McAdams ccc Somebody has to be the token Democrat.

- Newly elected Rep. Mike Winder ccc No more Richard Burwash.

- Utah Athletic Director Chris Hill ccc Rescheduled basketball games with BYU to
get the Legislature off his back.

- BYU basketball coach Dave Rose ccc That sucker punches are not mentioned in
the honor code.

- Sen. Mike Lee ccc Democratic candidate recruiters.

- Sen. Orrin Hatch ccc Immortality (But what's the trade-off?).

- Rep. LaVar Christensen ccc That his come-from-behind victory gives him two
more years to have a captive audience in the House for his two-hour morality
lectures.

- Fox News executives ccc That Trump's election means they won't have to worry
about him forming a competing Trump Network.

- Davillier law firm ccc That Trump's election will give Utah lawmakers new hope
they can win a lawsuit to transfer federally controlled land to the state, so
the checks will keep rolling in.

- State Auditor John Dougall ccc Having so much working material.

- Me ccc Having so much working material.

prolly@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Thanksgiving primer: How to survive talking politics while eating turkey

BYLINE: By Matt Canham The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 781 words


The highly divisive presidential race, complete with its unexpected outcome,
unleashed emotions ranging from fear and sadness to relief and elation.

First came the Facebook spats among relatives. Next up: Thanksgiving.

That turkey-fueled holiday in which family members, many who don't see one
another regularly, are in the same home for hours at a time. For some, it will
be irresistible to talk about President-elect Donald Trump's plans or Hillary
Clinton's defeat.

That's stressing out Amber Sorensen, of Orem. Come Thursday, the 26-year-old
Democrat and her husband will drive over to her parents' Provo home. About 25
relatives will be there, and she's already clashed with some of them online.

"I am very worried and I have no idea how to handle it," she said. "Mostly I'm
just working on a graceful way to say, 'I don't want to talk about this right
now.' "

Julie Pugmire, of West Valley City, will host about 15 family members on
Thanksgiving. She's an enthusiastic Trump backer, but among her guests will be
people who voted for Clinton, independent Evan McMullin and Libertarian Gary
Johnson. She fully expects presidential politics to come up, but that doesn't
mean there should be any arguments.

"We don't all share the same views," he said, "but we don't have to to be able
to get along."

If she is mistaken and her guests start to jab at one another, she plans to
"tell everyone to grow up and get over it and act like adults."

Laurel and Mike Hansen have had enough slaps from Republican family members
about President Barack Obama. The thought of what might come now that Trump
surpassed Clinton is too much to bear.

The Murray couple are skipping the standard 30-person family meal. Instead, they
are joining two friends for dinner at the Grand America Hotel.

"It is difficult that you can't even go to a family dinner without hearing all
of these horrible things about the candidate you voted for," Laurel Hansen said.
"I'm just sick of it."

Thanksgiving tensions are real and likely exacerbated by the recent election,
which was "poisonous" and "prolonged," said David Schramm, an assistant
professor at Utah State University who focuses on parenting, marriages and
family relations.

He offers a few suggestions on how to handle this holiday, starting with
recognizing why everyone gets together in the first place.

"It is not as much what occurs at the White House that makes a difference in our
daily lives, it matters what happens in our homes," he said. "We could be
grateful for what we do have and what we do enjoy."

He acknowledges that isn't always easy to do.

"Our brains are wired to focus on threats, to focus on negativity and it tends
to get stuck in our brain longer," he said. "It takes more work to focus on the
positive, to find common ground."

And when an argument begins, heart rates go up. Once it reaches about 100 beats
a minute, most people lose control of the part of their brain that provides
empathy and compassion and the argument can turn into a fight.

Schramm says in those moments it is best to take a few deep breaths and go for a
walk. If necessary, leave.

If a clash is expected, he says, setting ground rules can be helpful, adding
that politics either won't be discussed or would be discussed in one room,
giving others a chance to migrate to another space if they don't want to
participate.

If possible, try to make a joke, so long as it doesn't devolve into sarcasm,
which could worsen the situation.

Above all, Thanksgiving "should be a safe place where everyone feels welcome and
appreciated."

For Fran Pruyn, of Salt Lake City, her Thanksgiving will be smaller than normal.
She's traveling to a town outside of Boulder, Colo., where she normally
celebrates with a sister, who is in her 60s, and Pruyn's nephews' families.

One of Pruyn's nephews isn't invited this year, fallout from a post-election
blowup. The nephew is a Trump supporter, while Pruyn's sister backed Clinton.

"It's the holidays,' she said, a nod to the stereotypical family bickering that
can take place this time of year. And yet, she believes the election makes this
different.

"It is raw and the [emotional] investments on both sides were so incredibly
deep. The left feels betrayed, and I don't know what the right feels because I'm
not on that side," she said. "We are all raw. It would be better if Thanksgiving
was six months off."

So is her plan to avoid talk of Trump and the election with the family that does
gather Thursday? No way, she said.

"We are going to talk about nothing but it."

ccc This story was informed by sources in the Utah Public Insight Network. To
become a news source for The Salt Lake Tribune, go to www.sltrib.com/upin.

mcanham@sltrib.com

Twitter: @mattcanham

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Letter: You must admit, Trump got the job done

SECTION: PUBLIC FORUM; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 213 words


Whether you are a Republican or Democrat you are forced to acknowledge the
masterful job done by Donald Trump in being elected president of the United
States.

Using campaign rhetoric and actions that some of us deemed repugnant or
off-putting, the Donald knew exactly what to say and do in order to mobilize his
base constituency, convincing them along the way of numerous "facts" of
questionable veracity, such as the election being rigged, the future
construction of a Great Wall paid for by Mexico, President Barack Obama not
being born in the United States, etc. Many of these things are still considered
to be true by that constituency.

Jamming his candidacy down the throats of the Republican hierarchy was a thing
of beauty and even more impressive was his ability to get many Christian
religious organizations to prostitute themselves under the rationalization that
the "end justifies the means."

Perhaps the biggest accomplishment, however, was the exquisite timing of the
hacked Democratic party emails and the last minute, on again/off again
investigation of Hillary Clinton by the FBI. Those actions sounded the death
knell for Clinton's presidential aspirations, and made Tricky Dick and Watergate
pale in comparison.

Bravo, Mr. Trump. Well played.

Robert J. Gosik

St. George

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Letter: This hypocrisy is sickening

SECTION: PUBLIC FORUM; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 167 words


Former presidential candidate Mitt Romney appears to be nothing less than
another run-of-the-mill politician, who will say anything to further his own
political aspirations. His prior demeaning remarks about Donald Trump were
nothing less than vicious, condemning and denigrating, leaving no doubt as to
his ill feelings toward the presidential nominee. He blatantly characterized
Trump as "a fraud," "a phony," "a con man," and "a fake," "who has to be
stopped," because he would "bring the country to a point of collapse!" He had
nothing good to say about this man who he said was "playing the American public
for suckers!"

Well, things have changed since Trump won the election. Romney, who is being
considered for a presidential cabinet position (secretary of state), has wished
the president-elect "well," and has nothing but good things to say about the man
he said lacked character, and did not have what it takes to be president.

The political flip-flopping hypocrisy is sickening!

Joseph Evans

Magna

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Washington Post Editorial: Trump is right not to go after Clinton. But it's not
his decision to make.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 466 words


The nation ought to be relieved that President-elect Donald Trump has decided
not to press his campaign pledge to criminally investigate rival Hillary Clinton
for her handling of email while secretary of state and for the activities of the
Clinton Foundation. A drawn-out probe, fueled by Trump from the White House,
would invariably become a political circus, take on the overtones of vendetta
and deepen the wounds of the election. It would represent a continuation of the
reckless "lock her up" chants by Trump's campaign crowds, a mantra that
suggested a Trump administration would run roughshod over the rule of law.

It would also fly in the face of the conclusion already drawn by FBI Director
James Comey after a thorough investigation of Clinton's use of a private email
server while secretary of state. Mr. Comey said that no reasonable prosecutor
would bring a case against Clinton based on the available evidence.

With the presidential campaign ended, Trump seems to have concluded that the
legal pursuit of Clinton or former president Bill Clinton would be a legal and
political loser. "It would be very, very divisive for the country," he told the
New York Timeson Tuesday. "My inclination," he said, "would be, for whatever
power I have on the matter, is to say let's go forward. This has been looked at
for so long, ad nauseam."

But even in his welcome rethinking, it was not clear that Trump understands the
principle of justice insulated from political control. His statement contained
only a glimmer of recognition that, as president, it should not be for him to
decide whether criminal prosecutions are undertaken. The law enforcement system
and the U.S. attorneys who investigate and prosecute federal crimes are supposed
to be independent, free from interference by the White House or anyone else. The
president's role is to appoint an attorney general and set broad political
priorities.

In the case of Clinton's emails, Comey has already made a determination; Trump's
statement suggested he will not, improperly, seek to reverse it once in office.
Separately, there may be ongoing investigations into the Clinton Foundation. If
so, they should be left to the professionals at the FBI and career prosecutors
at the Justice Department.

In his career as a brassy and pugilistic tycoon, Trump often gave the impression
he saw the law as just another tool for advancing his personal interests or
retaliating against his foes. Once he sits in the Oval Office, he must behave
ccc and think ccc differently. His apparent decision not to pursue Clinton is a
step in the right direction. But given his past behavior and campaign
statements, it remains incumbent on Trump to show that he fully accepts the U.S.
constitutional mandate of impartial justice and a political system ruled by law.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

George Pyle: Every vote counts. Except when it doesn't

BYLINE: By George Pyle The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 782 words


The lesson of the election of 2016: Every vote counts. Except when it doesn't.

In Utah, the race for House District 32 seat was won by incumbent Republican
LaVar Christensen by three ccc count 'em, three ccc votes over Democratic
challenger Suzanne Harrison.

So anyone who might have wished that Christensen, one of the Legislature's most
outspokenly conservative members, had been set aside for the more centrist
doctor, and yet did not bother to vote, might understandably be kicking
themselves today. If only you had mailed in your ballot on time, or come to the
polling place with a couple of friends, it all might have turned out
differently.

On the other hand, the same Democrats who might have voted for Harrison, if they
had bothered to vote at all, have a different bad feeling about the presidential
election.

As the counts keep coming in ccc Utah is not the only state where the idea of
knowing the results of an election that night is a relic of the past ccc it
becomes more and more clear that at least 2 million more people voted for
Hillary Clinton than voted for Donald Trump. But so many of Clinton's extra
votes were in California, a state she had locked up all along, that she still
fell short in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, states she needed to win the
Electoral College count.

So, because of that odd system, once the Democrat got to 50 percent plus one in
California, New York and other states where she did well, all the other ballots
cast might as well not exist.

If that strikes you as unfair, you may want to join the call to eliminate the
Electoral College and just go by the national popular vote. Better solutions ccc
not requiring a constitutional amendment ccc might be a Democratic National
Committee campaign that doesn't take the Rust Belt for granted and a full
restoration of the Voting Rights Act, so that successful efforts to
disenfranchise minority communities in North Carolina, Wisconsin and Texas
wouldn't have perhaps tipped the balance in those key states.

About Wisconsin. That's where a federal court ruled the other day ccc after, of
course, it was too late to do anything about this year's election ccc that the
state's legislative districts were so clearly drawn to give the advantage to
Republicans over Democrats that it amounted to an unconstitutional level of
unfairness. As explained by Harvard Law Professor Noah Feldman, the court
decided that a system where Republicans got 48 percent of the vote statewide but
60 percent of the seats in the Legislature was too far off kilter to be
explained as anything other than deliberate disenfranchisement.

In Utah, the population of likely Democrat voters is so firmly concentrated in
Salt Lake City, West Valley City and Park City that applying the Wisconsin
ruling might not help the balance in the Legislature. But it could help with the
obvious assault on fairness that is clear in the way our congressional districts
are drawn.

Again this year, the most lopsided example is the 2nd Congressional District,
which sneaks Salt Lake City's more urban, liberal Avenues neighborhood and
University area into a geographically huge district that is overwhelmingly
Republican. That means that, in each of his three elections, Rep. Chris Stewart
has won the district by considerable margins, but was pounded in Salt Lake
County by margins of roughly 28 percentage points to successive rivals Jay
Seegmiller, Luz Robles and Charlene Albarran.

In 2014, Democrat Doug Owens beat Republican Mia Love in Salt Lake County, but
lost the district as a whole ccc very narrowly ccc when the downstate returns
came in. This year, Love beat Owens again, by a larger margin, managing a narrow
plurality in Salt Lake County. Which makes one wonder if Misty Snow, the
Democratic candidate for U.S. Senate, wasn't right to complain that Owens'
problem was that he was too meek to embrace his Democratic label.

In Summit County, 1st District Democratic candidate Peter Clemens outpolled the
otherwise invincible Rep. Rob Bishop by almost 10 percentage points.

Clearly, the Utah Legislature has designed the state's four congressional
districts to make sure that Democrats, and those who might vote Democrat from
time to time, have their voices squelched. Which makes the whole electoral
process dull and unattractive to voters and potential candidates alike. There
are two ways to fix that. Get the federal courts to apply the Wisconsin case to
Utah. Or elect more Democrats to the Utah Legislature.

Which means showing up, so that, once in a while, a Democrat wins by three
votes.

George Pyle, a Tribune editorial writer, remembers staying up all night to see
who won the elections of 1976 and 2000. No more. gpyle@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Op-ed: Make college affordable to make democracy work

BYLINE: By Jason L. Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 808 words


In January 2015, I wrote an op-ed for The Tribune in response to President
Obama's free community college proposal. The free college movement has since
evolved and was championed by the Democratic presidential candidates, but the
election of Donald Trump warrants a reassessment of the free college movement
and a reprioritization of the democratic purpose of public higher education.

So what is the future of free college, and why does it matter? I want to make
two critical points. First, the election outcome suggests that a federal policy
on free college is very unlikely, elevating the importance and role of state and
local polices to improve college affordability. Second, the crude and
uncivilized presidential campaign rhetoric and behavior, coupled with the dismal
voter turnout rate of approximately 55 percent, are an assault to our civic
duties and social contract; they are a failure of our postsecondary education
system, and we can and must do better as a nation and a democracy. Let me expand
on both points.

For the average American, the price of college is simply out of reach, and the
disinvestment of state funds in public higher education has directly contributed
to this. In 1990, states paid about 75 percent of the cost of public college
while students and families kicked in the other 25 percent in tuition and fees.
By 2015, the state proportion decreased to 50 percent and students and families
now pay the other 50 percent in tuition and fees. This disproportionately
affects low-income families, as evidenced by the 30 percent gap in college
enrollment between the highest and lowest income groups. Decades of research
shows that the price of college is a significant barrier to college entry, and
despite the vast availability of student loans, low-income students are
extremely loan averse.

Local and state "Promise" programs are expanding across the country and
represent an opportunity for states, cities, and communities to reinvest in
public higher education and help close the income gap in college enrollment.
Tennessee, Oregon, Salt Lake Community College and hundreds of colleges are
investing in students to improve college affordability and equalize opportunity.

Why does college affordability matter? Because our democracy depends on it. The
economic value of a college degree is well-documented, but college has benefits
that extend well beyond individual economic returns. A primary function of
postsecondary education is to develop our citizens, prepare them to participate
in democratic processes, engender a sense of social responsibility, and develop
an appreciation and respect for difference across cultures and peoples.

In the aftermath of World War II and during one of the darkest moments in world
history, President Harry Truman appointed a Commission on Higher Education, the
first of its kind in the United States. In an influential report titled, "Higher
Education for American Democracy," the commission unequivocally advocated for a
robust postsecondary education system that would lead to "a fuller realization
of democracy in every phase of living." The report argued that education should
"insure equal liberty and equal opportunity to differing individuals and groups,
and to enable citizens to understand, appraise, and redirect forces, men [sic],
and events as these tend to strengthen or to weaken their liberties." The report
prompted decades of federal and state expansion and public investments in higher
education, and it expanded college access from the elites to the masses.

The recent election process and outcome are evidence of a partial failure of
this democratic vision for higher education. Although many citizens and leaders
upheld civil and moral principles during the campaign and many exercised their
right to vote, many citizens did not. Many did not because their access to
college has been constrained by state disinvestment in public higher education,
and because colleges have not adequately designed curricula and experiences to
ensure all graduates and future leaders are prepared to be good citizens,
participate in democracy, and be socially conscious and responsible.

This is a call to action for the Utah Legislature and education leaders in Utah.
Let's restore access to college for all Utah citizens by reinvesting funding in
public higher education and making college affordable to low-income students.
Let's elevate the noneconomic and social benefits of higher education and expand
our college curricula and experiences to promote the values and goals of higher
education espoused in the Truman Commission Report.

Jason L. Taylor is an assistant professor of higher education in the department
of Educational Leadership and Policy at the University of Utah. He is a
first-generation college graduate and studies college access, equity,
affordability and success.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Letter: Lack of political reform is shameful

SECTION: PUBLIC FORUM; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 267 words


Those pesky protesters. Some didn't even vote. "If you didn't vote, you cannot
complain," say "vote-shamers" in the Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump peanut
gallery.

Yeah. If every one of the 1,000 or so protesters who showed up at the Capitol
last week had voted for Clinton, she would've lost Utah by only about 177,000
votes.

Fact is, except for a handful of races in Salt Lake County, judicial retentions
and bond initiatives, casting a vote in Utah was mostly redundant; winners and
losers were a safe bet. My votes for president, governor, state Legislature,
U.S. House and U.S. Senate ccc the most prominent and possibly most important
races ccc had symbolic meaning only.

Perhaps some of the protesters were angry in a generic sense, realizing that
nothing they could've done ccc voting or any other level of participation this
side of armed revolution ccc would've changed the outcome of the presidential
election. Trump won despite a clear majority for Clinton thanks to an arcane
18th-century invention, the Electoral College, created for probably good reasons
then but only stifling democracy now.

We can expect more vote-shaming and unfocused protests until major democratic
reform efforts targeting gerrymandering, voter suppression, campaign financing,
influence of narrow-interest lobbying, political party operations, the role of
news media and more are taken seriously.

Six years ago, two Utah nonpartisan groups, Utahns for Ethical Government and
Fair Boundaries, began conversations regarding several of these structural
problems. It's time to start talking again.

Bill Keshlear

Salt Lake City

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Noah Feldman: Put your faith in Constitution, not 'democracy'

BYLINE: By Noah Feldman Bloomberg View

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 814 words


When Harvard law professor Lawrence Lessig argued at Medium that members of the
Electoral College should break faith and vote for Hillary Clinton instead of
Donald Trump, I chalked it up to the brilliantly contrarian Larry being
brilliant and contrarian -- even if wrong. But when, over the holiday weekend,
The Washington Post published his op-ed making the same argument, it made me
think serious people might take his argument seriously -- which would be
dangerous for democracy and bad for the republic. So with great respect for
Larry's ideals and values, here's why faithless electors would subvert, not
sustain, the democratic values that underlie the U.S. presidential election
system.

Start with a thought experiment: What if Donald Trump had won the popular vote
and lost in the Electoral College? How would Democrats respond if prominent
scholars and public figures argued that Clinton's electors should break their
pledges and elect Trump?

I'll tell you how: Democrats would see it as an attempted coup d'etat. And
they'd be right. The vote in the Electoral College has always been a formality.
Its purpose is simply to effectuate the results of the electoral system we have,
with all its imperfections.

Faithless electors have never determined the outcome of a presidential election,
and for good reason. To do so would be to change the rules of the game in the
game's closing minutes. It would distort fairness and the rule of law. And it
would send the extremely worrisome message that electoral results aren't to be
taken seriously as the outcome of a legally constrained process.

Lessig makes one constitutional argument and one democratic argument in favor of
faithless electors subverting the system, and they're both unconvincing.

Constitutionally, Lessig makes the highly idiosyncratic, original and mistaken
claim that the Electoral College was intended as a "safety valve" or "circuit
breaker" to allow the electors to ignore the public's vote. He attributes this
idea to Alexander Hamilton.

But in Federalist 68, which Lessig cites, Hamilton said nothing of the kind. The
point of the essay was that the Electoral College was better than a pre-existing
legislative body, which could be subverted by outside influences. (That's you,
Larry.) Hamilton called the Electoral College "an immediate act of the people of
America." That's not a safety valve. It's a faucet.

If the Electoral College had been intended to make a decision of any kind, the
Constitution could have given its electors the power to choose the president in
case no candidate got a majority. It wasn't. Instead, the Constitution threw
such situations to the House of Representatives. As Hamilton noted, the
Electoral College was a one-shot deal: appear, vote, disappear from existence.

That leaves Lessig's argument from democratic theory -- namely, because the
Electoral College gives some mildly disproportionate power to small states,
which have a minimum of three votes, it violates the principle of one person,
one vote. That's true -- but irrelevant to subverting the system. The
Constitution creates that vote structure. And there's a way to change that: by
democratic means, not by the arbitrary act of obscure electors engaging in
revolutionary change.

What's dangerous about the appeal to faithless electors isn't that they're going
to listen. It's the willingness to propose breaking the basic constitutional
structures of democracy -- at perhaps the most delicate moment for those
structures in my lifetime.

Now is not the time for experts in constitutional law to be cavalier about
following the procedures -- including the unwritten procedures -- that shape our
constitutional norms. The president-elect broke many of the unwritten norms of
electoral politics to win the election. The overarching goal must now be to make
sure he doesn't break the Constitution.

The rules of the game may be problematic; I would certainly love to see the
Constitution amended to abolish the Electoral College. But the solution isn't to
break the game. The election would have been fought differently under different
rules, and it's impossible to say with any confidence what the result would have
been.

When someone loses the popular vote and wins the Electoral College, it's a
genuine challenge to the democratic legitimacy of the constitutional system. But
it isn't a challenge to the constitutional legitimacy of the electoral outcome.

Those who put the abstraction of "democracy" ahead of the Constitution had
better be ready for Donald Trump to do the same. If he does, they'd better have
a stronger argument than Hillary Clinton got more votes.

As for me, I'm going with the Constitution, constitutional tradition and the
rule of law. And I would urge my brilliant, contrarian colleague to do the same.

Noah Feldman, a Bloomberg View columnist, is a professor of constitutional and
international law at Harvard.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Utahns voted in record numbers this year

BYLINE: By Lee Davidson The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 779 words


This wild election year prompted more Utahns to vote than ever. And the
percentage of residents who cast ballots was either the highest in two or four
decades, depending on who does the math.

After the final state vote canvass Monday, Lt. Gov. Spencer Cox reported that
1,152,369 Utahns cast ballots this year, an all-time record for the growing
state.

Cox, Utah's top election official, said that was 82 percent of the state's
"active registered voters," defined as anyone who has voted or registered during
the past eight years.

Mark Thomas, state elections director for Cox, said that was the highest turnout
since 1964, when it was 89 percent.

This year's turnout was up a couple of percentage points from the 80.15 percent
of 2012, when adopted favorite-son Mitt Romney was the GOP presidential nominee.
That, in turn, was much higher than the 67.8 percent of the 2008 presidential
election.

But Utah's turnout looks less impressive when it is figured as a percentage of
the "voting eligible population," or anyone who is old enough to vote and is
legally eligible. Only 57.8 percent of such Utahns cast ballots this year ccc
meaning more than four of 10 did not bother to register.

Utah's turnout was a bit lower than the national average of 58.5 percent this
year, according to the United States Elections Project at the University of
Florida. According to its data, Utah currently would rank No. 37 nationally for
turnout among the states, but those rankings are still being updated as more
states finish their canvasses.

Still, that turnout for the voting-eligible population is Utah's highest since
1992, and the third straight presidential election in which turnout has
improved.

"It's positive we're moving in the right direction," Cox said. "We still have
work to do. ... We want to find ways to get more people registered, to get them
informed and give them an opportunity to participate in governing."

Cox credited this year's higher turnout to two main factors: presidential
candidates paying more attention to the state and greater use of by-mail voting.

"It probably helps when the state becomes somewhat of a swing state," Cox said,
because polls at one point had shown a dead heat among Republican Donald Trump,
Democrat Hillary Clinton and independent Evan McMullin.

"We had a lot more attention than we normally would during a presidential
election, and clearly that helped to drive turnout," he said. The final official
count Monday showed that Trump took Utah with 45.5 percent of the vote, trailed
by Clinton with 27.5 percent and McMullin with 21.5 percent.

Cox noted that 21 of Utah's 29 counties voted by mail this year. Every one of
the by-mail counties achieved higher voter turnout than the eight counties that
used only traditional in-person voting on Election Day.

Three counties had turnout greater than 90 percent of active registered voters:
Kane, 92.7 percent; Grand, 91.3 percent; and Sevier, 90.2 percent.

Another 16 counties had turnout greater than 80 percent, including the large
counties of Davis, 88.2 percent; Weber, 85.7 percent; and Salt Lake, 83.7
percent.

The eight counties that did not vote by mail all had turnout of lower than 79
percent, including large Utah County at 74.4 percent.

Besides boosting turnout, Cox said by-mail voting also appeared to improve voter
education "because they actually have the ballot, and they have the opportunity
to research what is on the ballot ccc instead of just getting in the ballot
booth and finding out there are three constitutional amendments they had never
heard of."

Cox noted that the Legislature ordered his office to study by-mail voting,
including whether it should continue or how it should be improved.

"I suspect that it will stick around" because of the higher turnout, Cox said.
"Obviously, there are some things we can do better, and we can learn from this
election and make necessary changes going forward."

He said that includes adding more polling places on Election Day in by-mail
counties. Officials underestimated how many people would want to vote in person,
and that led to lines of up to four hours in some locations.

Also, Cox said, allowing Election Day registration slowed many of the lines in
by-mail counties, and ways must be found to streamline that if it continues.

A few recounts are still expected, but Thomas said they will be conducted by
county clerks. Recounts are expected for a three-vote win by state Rep. LaVar
Christensen, R-Draper, over Democrat Suzanne Harrison, and a two-vote difference
between candidates in the new Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council for the
final seat there. Official results showed Kathryn Christensen narrowly leading
Steve Hook.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Mormon church congratulates Trump, calls on nation to pray for him

BYLINE: By David Noyce The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: LDS; News; State

LENGTH: 410 words


The LDS Church is congratulating Republican Donald Trump on his stunning victory
ccc a candidate the Utah-based faith earlier condemned ccc and urging all
Americans to pray for the "president-elect, for his new administration and for
elected leaders across the nation and the world."

In a news release Wednesday, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
said that imploring the heavens to help public officeholders is a "long
tradition" for Mormons.

"The men and women who lead our nations and communities need our prayers," the
release said, "as they govern in these difficult and turbulent times."

Striking a nonpartisan tone, the LDS Church also praised Democratic nominee
Hillary Clinton, who came up just short in her bid to become the nation's first
female commander in chief, and "all those who engaged in the election process at
a national or local level."

"May our local and national leaders reflect the best in wisdom and judgment as
they fulfill the great trust afforded to them by the American people," said the
statement from the faith's governing First Presidency and the Quorum of the
Twelve Apostles.

The LDS Church maintains a neutral stance in partisan matters, saying it "does
not endorse, promote or oppose political parties, candidates or platforms" and
noting that Mormons "may have differences of opinion" in such cases.

The church did, however, issue a statement last year decrying Trump's call for a
ban on Muslims entering the United States. At the time, a spokesman said the
responses reflected the faith's position on "the national conversation about
protecting the rights of people to be here and worship as they choose."

The LDS Church, the statement said, "is not neutral in relation to religious
freedom."

In addition, the Deseret News, a Salt Lake City newspaper owned by Utah's
predominant religion, published an editorial last month encouraging Trump to bow
out of the presidential race after an "Access Hollywood" videotape captured
Trump bragging about groping women.

On Wednesday, a News editorial complimented Trump on his win "against tough
odds" while noting it "will never condone the behavior and comments we
condemned."

Polls show Trump was not particularly popular among Mormons, who overwhelmingly
lean conservative. But the GOP candidate did prevail in LDS-dominated Utah,
collecting nearly half the vote in a tightly contested three-way chase with
Clinton and independent hopeful Evan McMullin, a Provo-born Mormon.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Former Utah governor Jon Huntsman open to seeking Hatch's seat in 2018

BYLINE: By Thomas Burr The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 414 words


Washington - Former Utah governor and one-time presidential candidate Jon
Huntsman Jr. is open to running for Sen. Orrin Hatch's seat in 2018 should the
longtime Utah Republican decide against re-election.

"We're going to take a good look at it over the next six months to see how best
to serve a great state," Huntsman said in an email to The Salt Lake Tribune. "No
more complicated than that."

Huntsman, who made an unsuccessful 2012 presidential bid and was elected to two
terms as Utah's governor before resigning in 2009 to serve as U.S. ambassador to
China, has been touted as a possible replacement for Hatch, who had initially
said he wouldn't seek re-election but has since walked back those comments.

In Washington, Hatch told reporters outside the Senate chambers Tuesday that,
yes, he was considering another bid.

"Yeah, I'd have to say I am, with the encouragement I'm receiving and knowing
what I can do," Hatch said. "Especially with the Trump win."

Hatch added his position as Finance chairman could be helpful for Utah: "It's
hard not to think that what's best for my state is to put in a few more years,"
he said, according to the Wall Street Journal.

Huntsman had sidestepped a question earlier this month on whether he would seek
a Senate term, praising Hatch as "amazing" and noting how beloved the seven-term
senator is in Utah.

"I've long believed in term limits for members of Congress, but Orrin has always
worked hard for the people of Utah ccc and for almost half a century," Huntsman
said at the time.

On Bloomberg's Benchmark podcast, Huntsman went further, saying he would take a
"good look" at the Senate seat.

"I've always said that I've got one more run left in our bones. And I don't know
what that will be. But I love this country," Huntsman said.

The former Utah governor said his decision hinges on Hatch's move, though
Huntsman noted the 40 years the senator has spent in office: "He's been a
productive senator for nearly half a century," he told the podcast.

"I'm somebody personally who believes in term limits," he added. "I always have.
You get in, do your job, you get out."

Hatch said during his 2012 run that it would be his last, though later hedged
his promise by saying that he may consider an eighth term if he were close to
passing a reform of the U.S. tax code.

Hatch's office didn't respond to a request for comment.

tburr@sltrib.com

ccc Editor's note: Paul Huntsman, the brother of Jon Huntsman, is the owner and
publisher of The Salt Lake Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Romney applauds Trump, notes that the president-elect did what he couldn't

BYLINE: By Thomas Burr The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: POLITICS; News; State

LENGTH: 565 words


Washington - A one-time nemesis to President-elect Donald Trump, Mitt Romney on
Tuesday applauded the incoming president, whom he disavowed at one point, saying
he was impressed with him and has "connected with the American people in a very
powerful way."

Romney ccc a Utahn who accepted Trump's endorsement in his 2012 presidential
race but then excoriated him during the primaries this year ccc ate dinner with
Trump in New York on Tuesday night, a meeting moderated by Republican National
Committee Chairman Reince Priebus.

Romney has been touted as a possible secretary of state; a top adviser to Trump
says news of any appointments could come early Wednesday.

The former GOP standard bearer, Romney told reporters that he was impressed by
Trump's victory and took a bow of shame in acknowledging that he wasn't able to
do the same himself four years prior.

"By the way, it's not easy winning. I know that myself," Romney told reporters
after dinner. "He did something I tried to do and was unsuccessful in. He won
the general election, and he continues with a message of inclusion and bringing
people together, and his vision is something which obviously connected with the
American people in a very powerful way."

Romney continued: "The last few weeks, he's been carrying on a transition
effort, and I can tell you I've beenccimpressed by what I've seen in the
transition effort. The people he's selected as members of his Cabinet are
solid,cceffective, capable people."

Trump, who had called Romney a "loser" and a "choker" after his failed 2012 run
ccc after Romney called Trump a "phony" and "fraud" ccc met with the former GOP
presidential nominee for the second time amid apparent discontent from Trump's
insiders.

Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway had dismissed Romney as a potential
candidate for any Cabinet position, tweeting over the weekend that the "volume &
intensity of grassroots resistance to Romney is breathtaking."

"I'm all for party unity, but I'm not sure that we have to pay for that with the
secretary of state position," Conway said on Sunday's CNN's "State of the
Union."

"We don't even know if Mitt Romney voted for Donald Trump," she added.

Romney and Trump apparently came together over dinner that included garlic soup
with thyme and sauteed frog legs, and scallops with caramelized cauliflower
andcca caper raisin emulsion. Priebus, whom Trump has appointed his chief of
staff, joined his boss in ordering prime sirloin with acccitrus glaze
andcccarrots. Romney ordered lamb chops with the mushroom bologneseccsauce.

Pictures from the dinner show Trump and Romney drinking water ccc neither
imbibes alcohol ccc from wine glasses. All three, including Priebus, had
chocolatecccake for dessert.cc

A longtime Romney aide said Tuesday night that Trump deserves a lot of credit
for meeting ccc twice ccc with someone who wasn't a supporter but who could be
helpful in his incoming administration.

"I'm not sure if Governor Romney will have a role in" Trump's administration,
said Ryan Williams, a right-hand man to Romney for nearly a decade. "I think
it's very encouraging that the two men are meeting and discussing international
relations on positive terms. This shows that President-elect Trump is willing to
reach out to people beyond his core group of advisers and listen to viewpoints
[of those] who did not support him during him during his run."

tburr@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Leonard Pitts: A recount would just make things worse

BYLINE: By Leonard Pitts Jr. The Miami Herald

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Columnists

LENGTH: 591 words


I oppose the recount.

There are, to my mind, only two reasons to re-examine ballots in a presidential
campaign, as Green Party candidate Jill Stein has raised money to do. The first
is in the event of error or fraud, but there is no evidence thereof in the 2016
election, as Stein herself has admitted.

The second is in the event the margin of victory is especially slim. And yes, in
the three states where Stein is pushing for a recount ccc Wisconsin, Michigan
and Pennsylvania ccc the margins are indeed thin, particularly in Michigan,
which Hillary Clinton lost by just 11,612 votes.

But in a case like that, the recount must begin immediately ccc and preferably
automatically ccc to be seen as credible. A recount three weeks after the fact
cannot avoid the appearance of dirty tricks. Indeed, if the results in any of
the states in question were overturned at this late date, Donald Trump's
supporters would suspect malfeasance ccc and be justified in doing so.

Don't misunderstand: I remain unalterably convinced that the new president is an
awful person and that America made a generations-defining mistake in choosing
him. But that does not give us license to casually undermine the integrity of
the election.

Besides, Trump is doing a fine job of that without Stein's help.

You'd think, what with recruiting the political equivalents of Darth Vader and
Victor Von Doom for his cabinet and presumably ordering a new Oval Office rug
with a giant golden "T" in the center, he'd be too busy for such things, but
you'd be wrong. On Monday, Trump tweeted, "I won the popular vote if you deduct
the millions of people who voted illegally."

It was hardly the first time he didn't know what the hell he was talking about.
Not only is there zero evidence this supposedly massive fraud happened, but
simple logic says that it could not. To be here illegally is to live off the
grid, to be paid in cash, avoid interactions with police, steer clear of City
Hall. Why would one such person ccc let alone millions ccc jeopardize the
security of anonymity to cast a fraudulent vote?

It's an idiotic idea. News organizations dutifully dubbed it "baseless," too
polite to say that his claim contained enough steer manure to fertilize Central
Park.

And at this point, anyone who ever believed in an ideal called America should be
unnerved.

A democracy is, in many ways, a fragile thing. As Thomas Jefferson wrote, it
depends for its very existence upon the "consent of the governed" ccc meaning
not our support of every action a government takes, but rather, our willingness
to believe in its integrity. It is from this that democratic government derives
its power. Democracy, then, is an act of mutual agreement.

In a nation of 320 million people who share no one ancestry, culture or faith,
it is also connective tissue. The idea that my vote matters no more ccc or less
ccc than yours is the tie that binds an Inuit in Bethel, Alaska to a Haitian
refugee in Miami to an Irish Catholic in Boston to a Mexican-American in San
Diego to a Muslim in Kansas City. It is the thing that makes us Americans.

And it's the thing Trump burned down in his scorched earth appeal to bigotry and
resentment. Now, here comes Stein in a desperate bid to deny the electorate its
appalling choice. Avatars of a demoralized left and a hateful right, they are
alike in at least one respect: their apparent willingness to damage what they
purport to love.

So we find ourselves at a no-win crossroads. Trump's victory is a terrible
thing.

Stealing it would be even worse.

lpitts@miamiherald.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday

Cheers & Jeers Sharing of Thanksgiving is back; confusion over 'news' troubles
politician

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 605 words


Cheers: To Thanksgiving dinners. Thanks to the efforts of several civic
leaders, a beloved Vancouver tradition is returning this holiday season after a
one-year hiatus. For more than 30 years, a free Thanksgiving dinner was served
to anybody who needed one at Chronis' Restaurant and Lounge, but circumstances
led to the cancellation of the event last year. Now, thanks to longtime judge
Rich Melnick, the Chronis family, and Mark Matthias, owner of Beaches
Restaurant & Bar and WareHouse '23, the event has been revived. Dinner will be
served at WareHouse '23, at 100 Columbia St., from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on
Thanksgiving Day. Former mayor Royce Pollard also deserves kudos for helping to
bring the effort together. Over the years, Melnick estimates, tens of thousands
of people have been served, reflecting the generous spirit of the season and
the people of Vancouver.

Jeers: To state Sen. Mike Baumgartner. The Spokane Republican generated a minor
controversy last week by sharing news that is apparently false. Baumgartner
tweeted out comments that some classes at Washington State University in
Pullman had been canceled in the wake of the presidential election. That
resulted in inquiries to university officials, who surveyed deans and found no
evidence that classes were canceled because of the election.Baumgartner, who
says he heard the news from credible sources, now says he plans to ask the
state's four-year universities for a list of all classes that were canceled in
the days following the election and the reasons for those cancellations.
Baumgartner has a history of putting himself in a hole, and this is one time he
should stop digging.
Cheers: To city of Vancouver officials. City employees this week undertook
efforts to clean up the streets around Share House near downtown, areas where
homeless people frequently camp. The cleanup was necessary, with city code
enforcement officer Randy Scrivner noting, "It's about saying that the city's
right of way is not a place to store things."At the same time, officials are
sensitive to the needs of those who are homeless and who don't have another
location to store their belongings. Dealing with the city's homeless population
requires sensitivity toward local residents, but also an acknowledgement that
the homeless don't have other options.
Jeers: To influenza. Flu season, apparently, has arrived earlier than expected
in Clark County. County officials have noted an increase in positive flu tests,
and PeaceHealth Southwest Medical Center is instituting restrictions on
visitors and staff to help stem the spread of germs.Last year's flu season did
not pick up until mid-January, and incidents peaked in mid-April. This year's
most common strain appears to be influenza A virus, which is included in this
year's vaccine. Officials remind residents that it is not too late to receive a
flu shot, and this gives us an opportunity to remind citizens that all
recommended vaccinations are important for protecting the health of the
community.
Cheers: To state lawmakers. Admittedly, this could easily warrant jeers, but we
choose to take the glass-half-full view and commend legislators for examining
teachers' salaries as part of an effort to meet school funding mandates.
Lawmakers have been holding hearings to discuss and compare salaries in trying
to adhere with the court-ordered McCleary decision.The glass-half-empty view is
that lawmakers should have done this four years ago, when the state Supreme
Court handed down the McCleary ruling. But the efforts represent a logical step
toward fulfilling the state's duty during next year's legislative session.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

So, what really happened on Election Day 2016?

BYLINE: GREG JAYNE

SECTION: OPINION-JAYNE; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 654 words


For those of us not working on a dissertation in political science, it will
take awhile to discern what happened on Nov. 8. This is said more as an
intellectually curious, "Wow, what happened?" fashion rather than an apoplectic
"Oh my God, what happened?" exhortation.

And while the election of Donald Trump to the presidency will fascinate PhD.
candidates for generations to come, we have little interest in doing that much
work. Instead, we'll take the easy route and go straight to an expert to glean
a little insight.So, what happened? "Trump won," Jim Moore said.OK, OK, we knew
that. But a bit of time on the phone with Moore provided some pearls of wisdom,
as it always does. Moore, you see, has a PhD. in political science from
Northwestern University and is director of the Tom McCall Center for Policy
Innovation at Pacific University in Forest Grove, Ore. More important, he's
always thoughtful, engaging, entertaining, and more than willing to talk when
some dumbfounded reporter calls him out of the blue.So I asked Moore about the
common narrative that Trump won, in part, because voters were seeking a
Washington, D.C., outsider to, as Trump succinctly put it, "drain the swamp."
There is nothing trendy about that trend among voters. President Obama was
largely a D.C. outsider, having served in the U.S. Senate for a scant 46 months
before he was elected president for the first time; George W. Bush was a D.C.
outsider, having been a governor; same with Bill Clinton, and same with Ronald
Reagan. Among the past seven people elected to the presidency, only George H.W.
Bush could be deemed a D.C. insider - and he was riding Reagan's coattails into
the Oval Office."In the presidential election, the issues barely move the
needle," Moore said. "It comes down to personalities and 'Who do I want to have
a beer with?' "
Death knell for Democrats?
There's a lot of truth in that, even if it does not speak well about Americans'
ability to select an effective president. But despite that quadrennial truism,
Moore was struck by something unusual surrounding this year's election."I think
the thing that made it different for me is the split at the top; people really,
really believed in their candidate or they really believed the other one was
unacceptable," he said. "People truly internalized this election in a way we
haven't seen since maybe the Kennedy years, or in '64 when you had Goldwater
supporters who were crushed."Goldwater's landslide loss to Lyndon Johnson saw
Democrats retain the presidency and both chambers of Congress and was viewed by
some as a death knell for the Republican Party. But four years later,
Republicans won the presidency, and conditions were in place for the rise of
Reagan not long after that. In other words, while many are readying a funeral
pyre for Democrats this time around, the party is not as disheveled as it might
seem."What's unusual to me is in these battleground states it was really,
really, really close," Moore said. "A half-point here or there and we would
have a President Clinton." Trump won Michigan by about one-quarter of a
percentage point; he won Pennsylvania and Florida by about 1 percentage point
each. And while Clinton supporters like to point out that she won the national
popular vote, Trump was correct when he wrote on Twitter: "If the election were
based on total popular vote I would have campaigned in N.Y. Florida and
California and won even bigger and more easily."Meanwhile, Democrats are
salving their wounds by suggesting that Bernie Sanders would have beaten Trump,
clinging to polls conducted during the primaries. But Moore said: "He wasn't
tested in the primary. The numbers showing he would have won the general
election, those weren't true numbers."As the polls demonstrated right up to
Election Day, there were a lot of numbers that were not true. And that will
leave a lot of people wondering what happened for many years to come.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

In our View: Much to Learn after Protests

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 596 words


With relative quiet having returned, the opportunity arises to examine the
protests that devolved into riots in Portland after the Nov. 8 presidential
election.Such an examination will reveal failures on many levels - from those
who peaceably protested, to those who joined them intent upon destruction, to
city officials who did not direct a strong enough response from law
enforcement. The desire is not to point fingers but to prevent such damage in
the future; there is, after all, much wisdom in the axiom about those who fail
to learn from history.Repeating the history that unfolded in Portland clearly
is not an option. Vandals perpetrated more than $1 million in damage, and more
than 100 people were arrested - highlighting the difference between civil
disobedience and anarchy.The unrest began the night of the election, as
hundreds gathered to decry the elevation of Donald Trump to the presidency.

More showed up the following evening, and some protesters saw fit to block
rush-hour traffic on Interstate 5. By the next night, destruction became part
of the demonstration, as cars were damaged and windows were
broken.Deconstruction of the events will take some time, but some observations
jump to the forefront:n Through the blocking of traffic - and even more so
through acts of vandalism - protestors damaged their own cause, engaging in
actions that likely reinforced in the minds of Trump supporters why they voted
for him. Winning hearts and minds requires thoughtful dialogue rather than
physical destruction.n Much has been made about media reports that many of
those who were arrested did not vote, at least not in Oregon; the narrative is
that if people did not vote they have no reason to complain. But the voting
records also suggest that the protests were infiltrated by some looking for an
excuse to create violence rather than to express a political view.n Allowing
protests to fester placed police in an untenable position, and city leaders
should have empowered law enforcement to contain the unrest from the beginning.
When violence unfurled, police were vastly outnumbered and faced a situation in
which wading into the crowd to control a small number of vandals would have
exacerbated the tension.n Considering that Hillary Clinton won 73 percent of
the vote in Multnomah County to 17 percent for Trump, there is a strong
likelihood that those harmed by the vandalism were Clinton supporters. The
violence still would be misguided if it targeted Trump supporters, yet this
fact points out the dissonance that drove the protests to destruction.In the
wake of a contentious presidential election, tension is understandable and
predictable. Regardless of whether Trump or Clinton had captured the Electoral
College, there were bound to be hard feelings on one side or the other. The
question then becomes what to do with those feelings.Rather than engage in the
trite notion that it is time for the nation to come together, the idea is to
channel anger in a constructive fashion. Dissent, it has been said, is the
highest form of patriotism, but civility dictates that cities should have
designated protest areas - such as Pioneer Courthouse Square in Portland, or
Esther Short Park in Vancouver - rather than allowing unrest to disrupt
others.On a larger scale, the situation represents the further debasing of this
nation's political discourse, a discourse that was routinely cheapened
throughout the election. While it is unrealistic to expect this nation to
embrace unity, it is time to begin raising the level of our discussion and our
actions.


LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

In Our View: Dissent Is U.S. Tradition

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 595 words


Apparently eager to embrace the vitriol that imbued the presidential election,
state Sen. Doug Ericksen, R-Ferndale, says he plans to introduce a bill taking
aim at "economic terrorism" during next year's legislative session. He wants to
create a class of crime for dealing with protesters who block traffic or block
trains or otherwise slow anything that can be deemed as economic activity. The
bill, he says, would classify the crime as a Class C felony, punishable by up
to five years in prison and a $10,000 fine.

It also would target those who financially support such protests.It is not
surprising to see the extreme rhetoric of presidential politics filter down to
the state level, especially considering that Ericksen was Donald Trump's deputy
campaign director in Washington (Clark County legislator Don Benton headed the
organization). Yet it is disappointing. And it calls for an examination of the
many levels on which Ericksen's proposal should be viewed as anathema.To begin
with, there already are laws in place to deal with those who move beyond
peaceable assembly and into the realm of vandalism. More than 100 protesters
were arrested when anti-Trump protests turned violent in Portland; more than 50
people were arrested for trespassing in May when they blocked railroad tracks
while protesting near two oil refineries in Anacortes; five people were
arrested in August for blocking tracks near Bellingham.The punishment faced by
those protesters is in line with the severity of the crimes, while Ericksen's
proposal would seek to establish draconian penalties. By comparison,
third-degree assault of a child also is a Class C felony; placing the blocking
of railroad tracks on the same plane would be a miscarriage of justice.In
addition, the simple phrasing "economic terrorism" is an egregious attempt to
stoke the fears of the public. Terrorism - real terrorism that seeks to kill
and maim for political purposes - is a genuine concern in this country. But
equating the blocking of traffic with such acts is a gross misnomer while using
language that serves to distract from the true threat. State Rep. Laurie
Jinkins, D-Tacoma, who chairs the House Judiciary Committee, told The Seattle
Times, "I just think there is nothing more un-American than this kind of
proposal. There is nothing more fundamental to our democracy than the right to
protest things you think are wrong."Ericksen has long been supportive of the
fossil-fuel industry, and investigations by the Associated Press have revealed
that he receives far more largesse from lobbyists than any lawmaker in
Washington. With his proposal having some chance of passing the
Republican-controlled Senate but little chance of passing the
Democrat-controlled House and no chance of surviving a veto from Gov. Jay
Inslee, it would seem to be nothing more than shameless pandering to those who
pay his bills.Still, it is worthy of discussion, as our political divide is
likely to continue as an essential talking point. Political dissent has a long
and rich tradition in the United States, with the First Amendment guaranteeing
"the right to peaceably assemble." When such assembly stops being peaceable,
there are laws designed to address the situation without demonizing the
protesters as terrorists. It is worth noting that those who held lunch-counter
sit-ins or marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Ala., could have
been charged with "economic terrorism" under the loose wording of Ericksen's
proposal.Given all of that, Ericksen's idea is a debasement of what makes
America great.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Clark County, cities issue proclamations

BYLINE: Jake Thomas Columbian staff writer

SECTION: POLITICS LOCAL; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 802 words


Declarations rebuke hate speech and promote inclusiveness
The cities of Ridgefield and Vancouver, as well as the Clark County council,
have joined the growing number of local governments across the country issuing
proclamations decrying hate speech and reaffirming their inclusive values.

Following the divisive and racially charged presidential election, local
governments, ranging from major cities to school boards, have made formal
gestures to condemn violence and harassment against minority communities while
calling for unity. The Southern Poverty Law Center, a Montgomery, Ala.-based
national monitor of hate groups, has reported an uptick in incidents of
harassment and intimidation against racial and religious minorities with 701
incidents since Election Day on Nov. 8.
Locally, Bridgette Fahnbulleh, president-elect of the Vancouver chapter of the
NAACP, said her organization has received increased reports of harassment since
the election, and she was "cautiously optimistic" about the recent
proclamations from Clark County and the city of Vancouver.
She said her organization has received reports of harassment from individuals
in Vancouver. She said most reports have come from Vancouver schools and have
included Latino students' being told by their peers to go back to Mexico or
that they would be deported soon, a reference to President-elect Donald Trump's
hard-line immigration policies.
"The atmosphere has changed," Fahnbulleh said.
At Vancouver City Council's Monday meeting, Mayor Tim Leavitt read a
proclamation on behalf of the city declaring that "we are a nation bound not by
race or religion, but by the shared values of freedom, liberty and equality.
Our community is strengthened by our growing diversity and ensuring that
pathways that foster diversity, dignity, tolerance and respect remain clear and
open."
The proclamation also encouraged leaders in the federal government to "quickly
develop a humane and efficient pathway to immigrant legalization, including a
process that does not mandate the deportation of otherwise law-abiding
residents of our community."
During the election, Republican presidential nominee Trump repeatedly called
for the deportation of undocumented immigrants and for a wall to be built along
the country's southern border to prevent illegal immigration.
"There are a lot of people in our community that understandably have anxiety
and fear about their safety, their security and their livelihoods here in the
U.S.," Leavitt said. "And there are a lot of people who are anxious because of
the rhetoric we heard during the election."
Leavitt said that he's heard of incidents involving inflammatory graffiti or
racially charged remarks being made to people in Vancouver. But neither he nor
the Vancouver Police Department have heard of any major recent events involving
racial hostility, he said.
"The reality is in every community there is an element of racism and
ignorance," he said.
He said he wanted to set a positive tone for the city with the proclamation and
also to call attention to what he said is broad support for an overhaul of U.S.
immigration policy.
Ridgefield Mayor Ron Onslow issued a proclamation that was supported
unanimously by its city council on Nov. 17.
Unlike the proclamation issued by Leavitt, Onslow's did not contain any
language directed at federal immigration policy. The proclamation states in
part that "reports of bullying, harassment, hate speech and violence have risen
across the nation in past months."
The proclamation declares that Ridgefield supports the efforts of Not in Our
Town, a national campaign to stop hate speech and promote inclusiveness. It
further states that "when people stand together for what is right, they build
strong, diverse communities that are safe for everyone."
Onslow said that the proclamation wasn't issued in response to any incident in
Ridgefield.
"We just want to stay ahead of things because we are growing so fast and we
have a very diverse community," Onslow said.
On Tuesday, the Clark County council issued a similarly worded proclamation
without any discussion. After the meeting, Council Chair Marc Boldt told The
Columbian that he began considering the proclamation, which was signed by every
member of the council, after riots broke out in Portland in response to Trump's
election victory.
As for other municipalities in Clark County, Battle Ground Mayor Philip Johnson
said his city may consider a similar proclamation after Thanksgiving. Washougal
Mayor Sean Guard didn't respond to a request for comment. Camas Mayor Scott
Higgins said there were no current plans to issue a proclamation, in part
because he said his city already is an inclusive place.
"We've been proclaiming that for years," he said.
Jake Thomas: 360-735-4515;
jake.thomas@columbian.com
; twitter.com/jakethomas2009

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

BLM meet, discuss goals with schools

BYLINE: Kaitlin Gillespie Columbian staff writer

SECTION: SCHOOLS; Pg. A1 A2

LENGTH: 450 words



HIGHLIGHT: Cecelia Towner

Leader of local Black Lives Matter chapter



The leader of the local chapter of Black Lives Matter urged the Vancouver
Public Schools board of directors to take efforts to protect its students in
the wake of the presidential election.

Vancouver resident Cecelia Towner shared her concerns about reports and rumors
of racist incidents locally and across the country since the election of Donald
Trump to the White House.
Other speakers at the meeting, including a Latina mother who presented a letter
to the board in Spanish and a teacher, expressed their fears about racially
motivated harassment and of the possibility of undocumented students' being
deported under a Trump presidency.
Towner told The Columbian she believed it was important to speak to the school
board after hearing community members' concerns at a recent Black Lives Matter
chapter meeting. She plans to attend other school board meetings in the coming
weeks, she said.
"We're in a place politically where we have never been before," Towner told the
board.
Towner's testimony comes a week after Vancouver Public Schools responded to
what it's calling "hate graffiti" spray painted on exterior walls of Skyview
High School on Nov. 15. Though district officials have not specified what the
graffiti said, a district spokeswoman last week said it covered religion, race
and gender.
Vancouver Public Schools Superintendent Steve Webb emailed families about the
incident Thursday.
"Our responsibility is to lead and serve with love, teach tolerance and hold
students accountable when they behave in ways that infringe on the rights of
others," Webb wrote.
Evergreen Public Schools Superintendent John Deeder made a similar statement to
families last week.
"No matter how we feel about the election, one of our core values and beliefs
is 'no child is expendable,'?" Deeder wrote in a statement posted on the
district's Facebook page. "One of the seeds of hope is the feeling of a sense
of belonging. I urge each of us to support all of our students as we make this
transition."
Portland Public Schools responded last week to concerns about the election
results by approving a resolution that blocks immigration officials from
entering schools or reviewing student records without going through district
officials. Oregon Public Broadcasting reported that the board unanimously
approved the resolution.
The Skanner News reported that Portland State University President Wim Wiewel
last week declared the university "a sanctuary campus," meaning school security
will not enforce federal immigration laws.
"These are really tangible things that you can do to make people feel safe,"
Towner told the board.
Kaitlin Gillespie: 360-735-4517;
kaitlin.gillespie@columbian.com
; twitter.com/newsladykatie

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

County certifies its 2016 election results

BYLINE: Jake Thomas Columbian staff writer

SECTION: POLITICS LOCAL; Pg. c1

LENGTH: 676 words



The Clark County Canvassing Board, which oversees elections, has certified the
final count of the 210,760 valid ballots the county received in the Nov. 8
general election.
The final count has Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton narrowly
winning Clark County with 92,757 votes, just slightly more than the 92,441
votes Republican Donald Trump received.

The final count for the close race for the District 3 position for Clark County
council has Republican John Blom cementing his victory over Democrat Tanisha
Harris with 22,066 votes to her 21,056.
In an election year marked by increased concerns over voter fraud, county
election workers rejected more ballots this year than in 2012. The most common
reason for rejecting ballots was because the signature on the affidavit
envelope did not match the voter's signature on file. If a signature doesn't
match, the voter is contacted and given a chance to respond. But according to
county numbers, 1,609 ballots were still rejected because of unmatching
signatures. In 2012, 803 ballots out of 193,502 counted ballots were rejected
because of unmatching signatures.
"It is a lot," said Cathie Garber, Clark County elections supervisor. "They're
not expecting us to be verifying every single signature."
Of the 1,609 rejected ballots, Garber said that 18 weren't counted because of
evidence that someone other than the registered voter signed the ballots.
Another 18 were rejected because someone attempted to vote more than once, she
said, and 16 were rejected because someone admitted to signing someone else's
ballot.
The Prosecuting Attorney's Office sent letters to the addresses where fishy
ballots originated, and Garber said these voters have been put on a list to
monitor in future. If similar problems arise in the future they'll be referred
to the Prosecuting Attorney's Office.
During the year's final meeting of the canvassing board, Clark County Auditor
Greg Kimsey (who is a member of the board along with county council Chair Marc
Boldt and Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Jane Vetto) said that a father called and
"kind of confessed" to signing his daughter's ballot. He said another person
was brought to tears after receiving a letter from the Prosecuting Attorney's
Office raising suspicions about a fraudulently cast ballot.
"Now I feel bad," responded Vetto.
But Kimsey replied, "Fantastic. Congratulations. That's what we want."
There were four races in the county for which elections staff were required to
tally the names of people written in for the office.
The names of write-ins aren't normally recorded. But under state law there are
two circumstances that change that. If a candidate declares a write-in campaign
their votes are recorded. County elections offices also are required to record
the names written in for an office if the total number of write-ins and
undervotes (when voters leave the race blank) is equal to or greater than the
margin between the winning and losing candidate in the race.
For instance, in the race between Blom and Harris, there were 4,741 undervotes,
meaning elections staff had to record the names of the 157 write-ins. David
Madore, who lost his re-election bid for the position in the primary, received
the most write-in votes with 47.
The race for Position 2 state representative in the 49th Legislative District
drew 1,593 write-ins and 10,843 undervotes. Carolyn Crain, a Republican who
finished third in the top-two August primary for the position behind Democrats
Monica Stonier and Alishia Topper, received the most at write-ins at 218. The
race for Position 1 state representative in the 17th Legislative District had
5,314 undervotes and drew 172 write-ins. Stonier received eight write-in votes
in the race.
The District 2 position on the Clark County Public Utility Commission saw
46,370 undervotes and 1,076 write-ins. According to the elections office, 57
voters wrote in "fictional characters," and Donna Roberge, a former
commissioner of the Port of Camas-Washougal who ran for the position and lost
in the primary, received 20 votes.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Forward

                               November 18, 2016

Forward 50 2016;
A Year of Curses and Many Blessings

SECTION: Opinion; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 447 words


Top 5

Daveed Diggs  Bob Dylan  Theo Epstein  Julia Ioffe

Ivanka Trump

Business

Michael Dubin  Sarah Hofstetter  Evan Spiegel

Community

Gali Cooks  Rachel Gilmer

Jonathan Greenblatt  Mark Hetfield  Harry Swimmer  Michael Twitty

Culture

Lil Dicky

Jonathan Safran Foer  Abbi Jacobson  Deborah Lipstadt  Isaac Mizrahi  Natalie
Portman  Géza Röhrig

Gitl Schaechter-Viswanath  Paula Vogel

Food

Liz Alpern

Roger Sherman

Law

Gloria Allred

Alexandra Brodsky  Judge Judy Sheindlin

Media

Danielle Berrin  Masha Gessen  Jeffrey Goldberg  Ben Shapiro

Politics

Sarah Hurwitz  Jared Kushner  Yael Lempert  Jona Rechnitz  Haim Saban  Bernie
Sanders  Eric Schneiderman  Charles Schumer  Paul Singer

David Wildstein

Religion

Rachel Cowan  Yehuda Glick  Daniel Landes  Haskel Lookstein

Sharon Weiss-Greenberg  Shmuly Yanklowitz

Science

Thomas Frieden

Sports

Aly Raisman

In this tumultuous, contentious   year, we learned that it  was a blessing and,
sometimes,  a curse to be a Jew in America.

The presidential campaign dominated   the discourse much more  than usual, and
in some unwelcome   ways. Many Jewish journalists  were targeted by white
nationalists   on social media, threatened  for who they are and what they
wrote. But journalists such as Julia  Ioffe and Ben Shapiro stood firm  in the
face of harassment, and  their cause was aided by communal   leaders like the
Anti-Defamation  League's Jonathan Greenblatt.

At the same time, the notable role  played by the candidates' Jewish  family
members spoke to Jewish  political empowerment. Never in  our memory did the
Democratic and  Republican nominee both have a  Jewish son-in-law  and in Donald
Trump's case, a Jewish daughter,  Ivanka, who is a brand unto herself.

Jews dominated the cultural landscape,   in television, cinema, music,  books,
fashion, theatre  up to Bob  Dylan's Nobel Prize. We also made  an unexpectedly
strong showing   in the sports arena, thanks to  Theo Epstein's leadership
bringing   the forlorn Chicago Cubs to  a World Series win and Aly Raisman's
stunning Olympics display.

America's legal and business  sectors benefited from Jewish entrepreneurial
ingenuity, while our  religious and communal leaders  challenged orthodoxies of
all kinds.

As always, the Forward's annual   list of Jews who have impacted  American life
is a communal eff ort,  but special tribute goes to Dan  Friedman, Thea Glassman
and  Kurt Hoffman for their creativity   and leadership. This project  went to
press hours after Trump's  stunning victory, opening an  uncertain chapter in
the American   Jewish story. But to paraphrase  the play that made Daveed Diggs
famous, the Jews in the Forward  50 never threw away their shot,  and we know
they never will.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE
IMAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The Forward Association, Incorporated
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Forward

                               November 18, 2016

'Alt-Right' Sees Trump Win as Turning Point

BYLINE:

Contact Sam Kestenbaum at kestenbaum@forward.com or follow him on Twitter, @
skestenbaum

SECTION: News; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 679 words


On the heels of Donald  Trump's victory in the November 8  presidential
election, the young white  nationalists who rallied around the  Republican
candidate celebrated his  victory as their own and contemplated  the next step
for the volatile political  movement they call the alt-right.

Hope is finally making a comeback,  Richard Spencer, a prominent white
nationalist and leader in the so-called  alt-right, wrote on Twitter.

For the first time in my adult life, I  am really proud of my country, he
wrote, then added the hashtag #Trump.

For Spencer and other members of the  alt-right, Trump's victory signaled the
mainstreaming of their white identity  movement, which has long flourished
online, proliferating on sites like Reddit  and Twitter.

White identity politics has arrived in  America, one alt-right commenter  wrote,
announcing Trump's win.

The alt-right sees itself as a populist  revolt against the political
establishment.   Its members are largely young  white men who share grievances
about  the economy, war and what they see  as an encroaching culture of
political  correctness.

A particularly virulent stream of anti-Semitism, sexism and racism also runs
through the movement  and has been  roundly condemned by groups like the
Southern Poverty Law Center  but  alt-right proponents say it does not
represent the totality of the alt-right.

For anti-Semites and the alt-right,  Trump's message of anger and retribution
was balm.

I can't wait to watch the Jews squirm  for 4 years, was the title of one Reddit
thread. I've never been so excited,  another poster wrote. Others posted
caricatures of hook-noosed Jews, eyes  welling with tears. When you fund
Hillary's campaign and rig the election  for her and [she] still loses, the
accompanying   text ran.

Jews played a hugely disproportionate   role in this election, one  commenter
wrote on Reddit. Oy vey,  wasted shekels.

Other posters on an alt-right Reddit  thread wondered: Now that their cherished
candidate has won, is their  movement of white identity mainstream   now?

Can we really call ourselves 'alternative'   right now that Trump has won?  one
commenter asked.

Is 'New Right' a more appropriate  term? another poster suggested.

Remember, we must make sure the  revolution is not betrayed, a Reddit
commentator advised. Trump must be  held to do the things he promised, such
as... [d]eportation of every illegal alien  [and a] cutdown on legal nonwhite
immigration.

The 'alt' won't die on the internet,  another poster wrote. But [in real life]
you might be able to get around more  corners by saying 'hard right.' Where  I
live, I know the 'alt' implies anti-Jew  and anti-Mexican. I use it at my own
risk.

Joshua Seidel, a self-described Jewish  member of the alt-right, said that
Trump's win was a tremendous victory   for the movement, which he doesn't
believe is inherently anti-Semitic or  racist.

If that starts leaping... into the street,  that may change, Seidel said. Right
now it's just on computer screens.

As far as Seidel is concerned, the altright   made it cool to support Donald
Trump.

They brought this sense of being the  in-crowd, Seidel said.

For Seidel, the core of what the altright   stands for is pro-white identity
politics, and that's what he wants to  see championed on the national stage.

We will see a reaffirming of the  importance of European identity and  culture,
he said.

It was clear to many that their still  amorphous movement was at a crossroads.

This is a symbolic victory for the  'alternative right,' said Paul Gottfried,
political philosopher and author of  recently published Fascism: the Career  of
a Concept.

It gives some of the 'alt-right'  elements some hope that they will be  taken
seriously as a political force,  Gottfried said. The question is if  Trump will
recognize them.

Voices of the alternative right, Gottfried   noted, are still relegated to
places  like Reddit and to smaller blogs  and  not found on big league
conservative  outlets like Fox News.

Gottfried said, We aren't seeing the  old conservatives being displaced yet.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The Forward Association, Incorporated
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Forward

                                December 2, 2016

Didn't Slam Anti-Semitism On the Left? Don't Expect Credibility When You Slam It
On the Right

SECTION: Opinion; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 942 words


For the past few decades, we have witnessed the  rise of anti-Semitism from the
left. From Jeremy  Corbyn's Labour Party in the United Kingdom to  college
campuses across America, the phenomenon is  real, and it is dangerous. Yet, all
too often, some Jews   both individuals and organizations  who inhabit the
liberal or left end of the spectrum have tried to explain  it away with the
classic yes/but rationalization:  Yes, it's wrong, but if only Israel would
then the anti-Semitism would disappear. Maybe their fear of losing  their
left-wing bona fides blinded them to the fact that  the only proper response to
prejudice of any kind  anti-Semitism included  is unambiguous condemnation.

Now, some of these same Jews are  excoriating establishment Jewish  leaders who
have failed to condemn  anti-Semitism from the right. They  lambast these
leaders for cozying  up to Donald Trump and his newly  appointed White House
chief strategist,   Stephen Bannon, who has  proudly supported the rise of the
so-called alt-right, the self-serving  marketing term for a group rife with
anti-Semites and white supremacists.

These left-wing Jews, who are  currently exhibiting so much indignation,
should examine their own  record. When they do, maybe they'll  understand why
they don't exactly  have a ton of credibility right now.

This is not to say that I think the  establishment Jewish leaders have  been
wise in their approach to Trump  and Bannon. Not at all. In recent  months and
days, much of the organized   American Jewish community  has indeed failed the
test of recognizing   and condemning the very real  anti-Semitism streaming from
the  right. The left is absolutely correct  about that.

During the presidential campaign,  Jewish reporters and pundits who  were
critical of Trump were widely   subjected to virulent anti-Semitic  attacks from
people who openly  identified as his supporters. With the  exception of the
Anti-Defamation  League, most leading Jewish organizations   said nothing. More
recently,  when Trump named Bannon as his  chief strategist, most Jewish
organizations   chose to remain mute or  adopt a wait and see position. They
argued that the president-elect and  those around him should be given a  chance
to establish their own record.  Groups willing to fight for pro-Israel
presidential appointees suddenly  discovered a new agnosticism when  faced with
an anti-Jewish presidential   appointee. One suspects that, in  light of Trump's
record of nursing  grievances, they feared being denied  a future place at the
table, failing to  see that such a place is worthless if  it telegraphs weakness
and lack of  principle.  Israel and the Jewish people, and  insisted that
Breitbart bravely fights  against anti-Semitism. Ron Dermer,  the Israeli
ambassador to America,  expressed satisfaction about working  with Bannon.

Did they not see how Bannon, in  his capacity as Trump's campaign  manager,
deployed anti-Semitic   rhetoric for political purposes in  Trump's speeches,
particularly in the  campaign's carefully produced closing   argument
advertisement? That  ad featured four supposed enemies  of the American public
Democratic   candidate Hillary Clinton and three

Jews: financier George Soros, Federal  Reserve Chair Janet Yellen and Goldman
Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein. Over  images of them, Trump thundered:  The
establishment has trillions of  dollars at stake in this election for  those who
control the levers of power  in Washington and for the global  special
interests. They partner with  these people who don't have your  good in mind.
These insinuations  of greedy global Jewish conspiracies  are worthy of The
Protocols of the  Elders of Zion.

This is not playing with fire. It is  lighting one.

We cannot know whether, on a  personal level, Bannon is an anti-Semite. He and
his defenders always  cite an Orthodox Jewish aide to  whom Bannon wishes a
Shabbat  Shalom each week. We cannot know  what is in his heart, but we know
plenty about what is in his publications   and speeches. At the very best,  he
is an enabler, peddling racist and  anti-Semitic views because he thinks  it
politically advantageous to do so.  I might prefer dealing with a genuinely
prejudiced person. At least I  would know that he has the courage  of his ugly
convictions.

For American Jews, particularly  those aligned with the new administration,   to
remain silent is to send a  signal that anti-Semitism and racism  can be
tolerated  and injected into  the heart of American politics. Expediency,   or
tactical thinking, can  have its place. But in this case, it is  completely
trumped by the need for  honesty  and a bit of backbone.

The established leadership (with the  exception of ADL) failed this first test
regarding the Trump administration.  Only after an outcry from many quarters
including from the editor of  this publication  did they begin to  issue
somewhat lukewarm condemnations.

Yet it's not only anti-Semitism from  the right, but also anti-Semitism from
the left, that should have been met  with steel, not mush. The protesters   from
the left end of the political  spectrum have also failed a test. Let's  hope
they'll do some soul-searching,  too. Sadly, given the tenor of recent  events,
Jewish organizations from all  ends of the political spectrum will  probably
have other opportunities  to stand up. Let's hope they do. Far  more than just
their already wounded   credibility is at stake.

Deborah E. Lipstadt is the Dorot Professor  of Modern Jewish History and
Holocaust  Studies at Emory University, and is a  contributing editor at the
Forward. Follow  her on Twitter, @DeborahLipstadt

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IMAGE: Some did more than sit on the sidelines; they gave Bannon
precious political cover. The head of the once venerable Zionist Organization of
America, Morton Klein, lauded both Bannon and Breitbart News, which Bannon used
to lead, for their friendship and fair-mindedness towards
IMAGE: Testing Our Mettle:JeremyCorbyn (left) was accused of failingto deal with
anti-Semitism inthe British Labour Party; StephenBannon (above), is accused
ofspreading anti-Semitism amongalt-right Americans.; GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The Forward Association, Incorporated
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Forward

                                December 2, 2016

Separate Business From Politics, Quick!

SECTION: Opinion; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1116 words


Dear Ivanka and Jared, please excuse  the informality of my greeting.  Your
celebrity has become so ubiquitous   that first names are all  that's needed.
You are, right now,  the most powerful Jews in America, and I trust  you
recognize the significance of your position  seriously enough to listen to my
plea.

Because I'm worried. The anti-Semitism  unleashed during the presidential
campaign is  more prevalent than anything I've experienced  in my lifetime, and
I'm closer to your father's  age than I am to yours. You must feel it, too   you
must be aware of the shiver it is sending  through our community, the fresh
uncertainty,   the way more people are crowding into the  pews on Shabbat,
looking for comfort and solidarity.   You live a far more rarified life than I
do,  our annual incomes separated by many, many  zeroes, but I'm sure you care
about the future  of your three Jewish children as fervently as I  care about
the future of mine.

So please don't make it worse.

This isn't a question of policy or politics; I'm  not here to lobby you on
reproductive rights  or gun control or America's relationship with  Israel. We
can agree to disagree on all manner  of issues. But what I hope we can agree on
is  the absolute necessity for you to represent the  concerns of American Jews
to the person who  will soon be president, and to recognize that  everything you
do can make our situation more  secure  or more precarious.

The nasty associations of Jews with money  and power, the insinuation that we
are a people  who thrive on getting rich off others and  seek political
influence to shore up our own  wealth, are resurfacing on the fringe of American
discourse and pushing their way into the  mainstream. We saw that in the
anti-Semitic  tweet that Donald Trump's campaign posted  last summer, tying
together a Jewish star, gobs  of cash and corrupt Hillary Clinton. We saw  that
in the final ad of the Trump campaign just  before Election Day, which evoked
anti-Semitic  tropes implying that Jews maintain an insidious   control of the
global economy.

We see that in the appointment of Stephen  Bannon as a senior strategic aide to
Presidentelect   Trump  an appointment, Jared, that you  evidently delayed
announcing until the end of  Shabbat. Did you really think that waiting until
sundown would obviate the sin of elevating  someone who has published
anti-Semitic, anti-immigrant,   anti-Muslim, anti-feminist writing  on Breitbart
News?

Bad enough, Ivanka, that you used your  speech at the Republican National
Convention   and your appearance with your father on  national television to
hawk your own wares. I  assume you've now realized the danger in treating
civic duties as marketing opportunities.

Far more serious and consequential is the  fact that the Trump family is
resisting disentangling   its far-flung business empire from the  reins of
political power once Trump is inaugurated   in January. This is not just a
concern  of sour-grapes liberals; no less than The Wall  Street Journal stated
bluntly: Mr. Trump's best  option is to liquidate his stake in the company.

It should be obvious to you two why this is  essential to the proper functioning
of American   democracy, to the potential success of the  Trump administration,
and to counteracting  the inevitable accusations that Jewish moneyed  interests
control the strings of the most powerful   office in the world.

The President-elect has said that he intends  to give control of the Trump
Organization and  the more than 500 limited liability companies  through which
he owns his assets to you, Ivanka,   and to your brothers Donald Jr. and Eric.
But  he will still be associated with his businesses,  because you  his family
are hardly independent   from him. Even if as president your  father does not
directly manage his businesses,   he'll continue to own them, and you and

your brothers will be involved in real estate deals,  naming rights and other
activities worldwide.

Everything you do will be subject to scrutiny.  As The New York Times noted
about your father:  The conflicts between his private interests and  his public
role will be impossible to untangle.

And that will inevitably give rise to grave  political consequences, opening up
your father's  administration to very real charges of corruption   and inside
dealing, of using government  to enhance a private interest  of doing everything
he accused Clinton of doing, but this time,  there will be a lot more proof.
Remember, presidents   can face litigation in private matters. If you  think
everyone from the New York State attorney  general to defrauded Trump University
students  were willing to sue your father when he was just  another rich guy,
imagine how huge a target he  will be in the White House.

Layer on top of these manifest potential  conflicts the prospect of your own
political  entanglements  the hints that Jared is figuring   out how to skirt
federal anti-nepotism rules  to become an official adviser to the president, or
the suggestions that Ivanka will effectively act as  First Lady while her
stepmother stays in Manhatother  tan  and the situation becomes even messier.

Given that just a few anti-Semitic trolls can  infiltrate and denigrate public
discourse, it may  only be a matter of time before they turn on you.

I say this with no predictive knowledge, nor  with any pleasure, but because I
already see such  sentiment bubbling up on far-right websites  decrying Trump's
associations with Jews. If the  new president doesn't fulfill all his outlandish
promises, if he doesn't build that wall and deport  millions and cancel foreign
deals and so on, some  of his supporters will look to assign blame. And  some of
his supporters were folks like the Ku  Klux Klan, which endorsed him. They may
well  think the worst of powerful Jews like yourself.

Anti-Semitism is not the fault of the victim,  and Jews shouldn't be held
accountable for awful  things that other people say and do about us. But  in
those rare instances when we hold positions of  great power, we should be
mindful of the responsibility   that entails and do our best not to provoke
anti-Semitism or any other sort of ugly behavior.

Jared and Ivanka, you have an extraordinary  opportunity to do what is right for
America and  what is right for American Jews. If you insist  that the new
president forcefully and repeatedly   denounce the anti-Semitism evoked in his
name, and if you persuade him to truly separate  his business interests from his
elected office   which he long ago pledged to do  then you will  have helped him
run a cleaner, more respectable  and more tolerant government. And you will help
your own people in the process.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; NIKKI CASEY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The Forward Association, Incorporated
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Forward

                                December 2, 2016

It's Keith Ellison's Turn To Be Called 'Anti-Semitic';
Supporters of Steve Bannon say that Ellison, the leading candidate to head the
DNC, is even worse.

SECTION: News; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1215 words


For some Jews who support Donald  Trump and are feeling under attack after the
appointment of Stephen Bannon to a top White  House position, a new line of
defense has emerged:  The Democrats are just as bad.

The comparison is with Minnesota Rep. Keith  Ellison, the leading candidate for
chairman of the  Democratic National Committee, and the argument   goes
something like this: Ellison, a Muslim  who is critical of Israel, is just as
bad as Bannon, the  former publisher of the Breitbart News Network  website.
Bannon made the site into a platform  for the 'alt-right,' which is the label
preferred by  contemporary white supremacists and nationalists  who traffic in
racist stereotypes.

They're accusing Bannon of being racist and anti-Semitic  and yet they fail to
look at the very clear  connections of Keith Ellison to radical Islamist
groups, to anti-Semitism, said Brooke Goldstein,  executive director and CEO of
The Lawfare Project,  in a November 17 Fox News interview. I mean, it's
boggling.

The Yeshiva World website called Ellison The  Real Number 1 Anti-Semite in the
U.S.

Ellison, 53, is the first Muslim American elected   to Congress. With the
backing of his political  mentor, Sen. Bernie Sanders, and the endorsement  of
the incoming Senate Minority Leader, Chuck  Schumer, Ellison is, at the moment,
favored to win  over the party chairmanship, a position vacant  since Rep.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz was forced  out on the eve of the Democratic convention
this  past summer.

The litany of claims hurled at Ellison by Jewish  activists, almost all from the
right, ranges from his  past support for Louis Farrakhan (since renounced);  his
criticism of Israel's actions in the West Bank  and Gaza, and past associations
with Muslim  groups in America.

Others in the Jewish community are unequivocal

in rebutting the anti-Semitism charge,  even while opposing his Middle East
views. Jonathan Greenblatt, the head  of the Anti-Defamation League, for  one,
told The New York Times that,  to the contrary, Ellison was an  important ally
in the fight against  anti-Semitism, though he has taken  positions on the
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict on which we strongly differ  and that concern us.

Jewish activists who have dealt with  him, meanwhile, both in his home  state
and on the national level, speak  of an elected official who is committed  to
interfaith dialogue and who cares  deeply about Middle East peace.

Ellison, who was first elected to  Congress in 2006, grew up in Detroit  and
converted to Islam while in  college. His background in civil rights  activism
and his progressive positions  in Congress made him one of Sanders's   most
vocal supporters during the  recent Democratic presidential primary.   Sanders
in turn appointed Ellison  to the Democratic Party's platform  committee last
summer. In Minnesota,   he forged close ties with the local  Jewish community
when he decided  to enter politics.

Now that Ellison's in the spotlight,  the Jewish community is looking at  two
competing images of him. One:  an extremist critic of Israel who will  drag the
Democratic Party away from  its support for the Jewish state. The  other: a
leader who is dedicated to  promoting peace and a two-state solution   of its
years-long conflict with the  Palestinians.

As for the facts: In the 1990s, Ellison  did support the Nation of Islam and
its leader, Farrakhan, who has been  widely denounced for his anti-Semitic
comments throughout the years.  Before running for Congress, Ellison   turned to
the Minnesota Jewish  Community Relations Council and  denounced Farrakhan's
views on  Jews.

I wrongly dismissed concerns that  they were anti-Semitic, Ellison wrote.  They
were and are anti-Semitic and I  should have come to that conclusion  earlier
than I did.

But most of Ellison's detractors  have criticized him for his views on  the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In  Congress, Ellison took special interest   in
the plight of Palestinians under  Israeli occupation, especially after  the 2008
Israeli military operation  in Gaza. A tweet of Ellison's, posted  earlier this
year after visiting Hebron,  brought further allegations of anti-Semitism
against him. It showed a  window of a Palestinian home, stating   that the
property was taken by  Israeli apartheid.

The Zionist Organization of America   lashed out at Ellison, stating that  if he
becomes DNC chair, Ellison  will likely be empowered to persuade  even more
Democratic congresspersons   to join him in actions hostile to  Israel's
security and Israeli civilians'  lives  wreaking enormous damage  to the
prospects for future bipartisan  support for America's closest ally in  the
Middle East.

But his supporters in the Jewish  community see a different picture  altogether.

They note Ellison's commitment to  bringing peace to the Middle East.  What do
you expect? He's a Muslim  and he's going to identify with the  Palestinian
cause, but he has demonstrated   time and again his support  for Israel, said
Rabbi Marc Schneier,   founder and president of the  Foundation for Ethnic
Understanding.   Schneier, who is the co-author  of the 2013 book Sons of
Abraham:  A Candid Conversation About Issues  That Divide and Unite Jews and
Muslims, recalled how Ellison, in  2007, spoke out against Iran's
Holocaust-denying conference and later,  in 2013, initiated a letter to Hamas
leaders, urging the release of the  captive Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit.  To
demonize him as an anti-Semite  is just an outrage, Schneier told the  Forward,
adding that comparing Ellison   to Bannon is unfair.

The Religious Action Center of  Reform Judaism also spoke out in  favor of
Ellison, noting his work with  the Jewish community on issues ranging   from
confronting the Darfur  genocide to protecting religious freedoms.   On Israel,
said RAC's director,  Rabbi Jonah Pesner, the group has not  always agreed with
Ellison, including  when he refused to support funding  for the anti-rocket Iron
Dome system  in Congress, but there has been  plenty of common ground where our
work together has made a difference.

Another claim leveled at Ellison  had to do with his association with  American
Islamic groups, especially   the Council on American-Islamic  Relations, a group
that many Jewish  groups refuse to engage with because  of its views on the
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict and a past claim of connections   to a fundraising
operation of  Hamas in America.

Much of the backlash against Ellison   is directed now at Schumer, the  New York
senator who is considered  a strong defender of Israel and a close  ally to the
organized Jewish community.

Does Senator Schumer actually   believe that there is literally not a  single
other person in the Democratic  Party, anywhere in the country, who  would be a
better choice than Ellison?   New York Assemblyman Dov  Hikind asked in an
interview in the  newswire JNS. Why is Schumer in  such a rush to support a
candidate  who is so unfriendly to Israel?

Schumer's office, in response,  argued that Ellison's selection to  chair the
party will not change the  Democrats' commitment to Israel:  Democrats have an
excellent platform,   including one of the strongest  pro-Israel platforms.
Keith Ellison was  instrumental in making that happen  and persuading others to
support it.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IMAGE: In the Line of FIre:Minnesota Democratic Rep. Keith Ellison
speaks during a news conferencein front of the Supreme Court last April.; GETTY
IMAGES
IMAGE: Middle East Activist:Ellison holds a camera in front of the rubble of the
American International School inthe Gaza Strip's Beit Lahia neighborhood in
February 2009, following Israel's invasion of the territory.; AP PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2016 The Forward Association, Incorporated
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

These 6 Texans could help Trump run things

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 635 words


A half-dozen Texans have been mentioned as potential picks for top spots in the
Trump administration:

U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz: Cruz met with President-elect Donald Trump at Trump Tower in
New York on Tuesday. Cruz has been mentioned as a possible pick for attorney
general and also been promoted as a potential pick for the Supreme Court.

Cruz was Trump's most serious rival for the Republican nomination. Trump
routinely referred to Cruz as "Lying' Ted." On the day Cruz left the race, he
described Trump as a "pathological liar." Cruz didn't endorse Trump until
September.

"I'm eager to work with the new president in whatever capacity I can have the
greatest impact, defending the principles that I was elected to defend," Cruz
said on "Fox & Friends" on Thursday. "Defending the principles of freedom,
defending the Constitution."

For Cruz to serve in a Trump administration would be leap of faith for both men.

Former Gov. Rick Perry: The first of Trump's GOP rivals to drop out of the
presidential race, Perry described Trump in July 2015 as a "cancer on
conservatism" and a "barking carnival act" who was "appealing to the worst
instincts in the human condition."

But once Trump triumphed over Cruz, whom Perry backed after he got out of the
race, the former Texas governor endorsed Trump with unbridled enthusiasm,
campaigning for Trump and advertising his willingness to serve in his
administration.

The Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday that Perry was in the mix for
secretary of energy. If so, it would be ironic. It was at a Republican
presidential debate in November 2011, that Perry, then a formidable candidate
for his party's nomination, said, "It's three agencies of government when I get
there that are gone: commerce, education, and the uh... what's the third one,
there? Let's see. The third one. I can't... Oops."

The third agency that eluded Perry's memory was the Department of Energy.

U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul: The Austin Republican who chairs the House Homeland
Security Committee would be an obvious choice as secretary of homeland security.
McCaul advised Trump during the campaign and threatened to challenge Cruz for
re-election, in part because he was slow to back Trump.

U.S. Rep. Jeb Hensarling : The Dallas Republican is chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee and on the short list for treasury secretary. He
met with Trump on Thursday and on his way out of Trump Tower told reporters,
"Obviously we talked about financial reform. I just wanted to tell the
president-elect I'm on his team. Very excited to help drain the swamp, very
excited to help get this economy working for working Americans again."

Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller: Miller's enthusiasm for Trump and his
cowboy hat caught Trump's attention, with the Republican nominee favorably
mentioning Miller at a number of rallies in the home stretch.

Asked on "Fox & Friends" Thursday whether he'd take the job as secretary of
agriculture, a beaming Miller said, "Any way I can serve my country. I'd
certainly consider it."

If Miller were chosen, headlines would mention that a recent tweet from his
account referred to Hillary Clinton using a sexually explicit, derogatory term
for women. He apologized and immediately took down the tweet, saying a
contractor sent the tweet.

Kathleen Hartnett White: A rancher who served as chairwoman of the Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality 2003-2007 and then as a board member of the
Lower Colorado River Authority, White is a senior fellow at the Texas Public
Policy Foundation, a conservative think tank in Austin.

A potential pick to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, White has long
been a bête noire of Texas environmentalists much as the EPA under President
Barack Obama has been the bête noire of Texas conservatives.

Contact Jonathan Tilove at 512-445-3572.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Are Trump's political frenemies a sign of hope?

BYLINE: John Kelso American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 642 words


You know what drives me bonkers? It's the way our politicos so quickly and
vehemently change their minds about whether another elected official is a pretty
good guy or just plain old scum.

Take the case of U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, who met Tuesday with
President-elect Donald Trump at Trump's digs in his Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue
- which, by the way, sits right next door to Tiffany's.

I'll bet the Tiffany's folks are just tickled pink about that arrangement,
right? I doubt if the protesters out front who want to egg Trump are walking
into Tiffany's and buying a lot of high-dollar jewelry. Nothing like an angry
mob out front of the store to drum up business, right?

Anyway, during Trump's presidential campaign, he and Cruz hated each other's
guts. Cruz called Trump a "pathological liar" and refused to endorse the
Trumpster for president.

Meanwhile, Trump called Cruz, "Lyin' Ted."

Trump's big on the lying label, isn't he? He couldn't go a day without calling
Hillary Clinton a liar. Until, of course, he won the election. And now he's
decided she's Mother Teresa reincarnate, just a wonderful public servant.

Aha, but wait! Suddenly, there's been another change of heart here. Trump and
Cruz are the best of pals. It must be so, since word is that Cruz might even be
in line for a Supreme Court seat. And Cruz has decided Trump isn't such a jerk
after all.

"I'm eager to work with the new president in whatever capacity I can have the
greatest impact, defending the principles of freedom, defending the
Constitution," Cruz said.

This is despite that, not so long ago, Cruz had wanted to take Trump out back
and give him a noogie.

So what's going on here with these suits? Do our politicians think we voters are
just plain stupid or just not paying attention? Don't they realize we notice
these little discrepancies?

Then again, maybe they figure the public has so little faith in our elected
representatives that another line of garbage is par for the course. Maybe
they're right.

Cruz and Trump aren't the only ones playing this bait-and-switch game. Take
former Gov. Rick Perry, who used to think that Trump would make a fitting
candidate for president of the Bandidos. Or something on that level.

Not that I have anything against the Bandidos. At least when the Bandidos tell
you they're going to kick your butt, they're likely to stick to that position.

You can't say that about Gov. Goodhair, though. He's all over the map when it
comes to his position on Trump.

Back in July 2015, Perry said our Groper in Chief was "a barking carnival act"
who was "appealing to the worst instincts in the human condition."

But as soon as it became apparent that Trump might be headed for the White
House, Perry's opinion of the Donald changed considerably. No longer was Trump a
snake oil salesman for P.T. Barnum. Instead, Perry took to campaigning for
Trump.

Just between you and me: I think Perry wants Trump to give him a job. Good idea.
Trump should make him Secretary of Hair.

In a way, this bait-and-switch business provides a ray of hope, doesn't it?

Perhaps it means these people are willing to get along, meaning they might be
able to work together and actually get some business done.

You know, like drum up some jobs for people who need them.

At least I hope so, though I wouldn't bet the house on that happening.

It would be nice to know what these big shots honestly think of each other,
though, wouldn't it?

Are they just trolling for work and power? Or have they really developed a warm
spot in their hearts for each other?

Maybe we should make them all take a lie detector test to find out. Then again,
something tells me that Cruz would still like to see Trump put in stocks and
that Perry still thinks Trump is selling us snake oil.

Unless, of course, a high-powered White House position suddenly came open.

Then it becomes Valentine's Day all over again.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

768 petition Texas State to become 'sanctuary' campus

BYLINE: Anna Herod American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: METR; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 766 words


More than 750 Texas State University students, faculty, staff and alumni have
signed an online petition asking university administrators to declare the school
a "sanctuary" for undocumented students and staff.

The petition, addressed to Texas State President Denise Trauth and Provost Gene
Bourgeois, outlines concerns about troubling incidents on and near campus after
Donald Trump won the Nov. 8 presidential election. In one instance, fliers
circulated on campus that touted support for "our man Trump" and threatened
school leaders with attacks for spouting "diversity garbage."

"In the past month, fliers have been posted on the Texas State campus calling
for â  tar & feather vigilante squads' to â  arrest and torture...university
leaders,' " the petition states. "In addition, a male student was assaulted in a
LGBTQIA hate crime just a block from campus. In another incident, the university
lost a widely revered campus student leader in a tragic suicide."

The petition acknowledges that university leaders responded to the incidents
with emails and social media posts calling for unity and urging students to
report all threats to University Police. But the petition says the response has
fallen short.

"These responses are reactive at best and do not actively promote an environment
that ensures the safety of our most vulnerable community members," the petition
states. "Our vision of a sanctuary campus involves actively and vigilantly
protecting Texas State University's most vulnerable populations through
administrative policies."

Texas State spokesperson Matt Flores said the university is still reviewing the
petition and that he does not yet know when or if the administration will
respond.

The petition cited concerns over Trump's campaign pledge to deport millions of
undocumented immigrants and the call by his surrogates for a national registry
for Muslims. It also asserts that university officials haven't adequately
communicated how they will respond if Trump repeals President Barack Obama's
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, a policy that safeguards students who
are not citizens from deportation, grants them authorization to work and enables
them to get a driver's license.

Texas State sophomore and a student with DACA status Lesly De Leon said she was
one of the 768 who signed the petition because she knows what it's like to be
vulnerable in the current political climate. She wants protection not only for
herself but also for other minority communities, including Muslims and gay
Americans.

"Immigration - that's a really important topic to me, and all the petition is
asking for is to get the administration to listen to our concerns and do what
they can to protect these vulnerable students," De Leon said.

Texas State junior May Olvera said it's important to her that leaders publicly
declare Texas State a sanctuary campus because as a Mexican immigrant herself,
she knows what people are fleeing from when they come to America.

"I was extremely privileged to have an American grandfather who passed the
nationality down to me, but I don't think that gives me more of a right to life,
security or education than students who come here through DACA," Olvera said.
"And it's important the university protects those students, because some
students, if deported, would be sent back to poverty, hunger, violence and maybe
even death. They're here actively working hard to earn an education that would
help them and their families, and to not protect something so noble is
inherently wrong."

Contact Anna Herod at 512-445-3931.

Petition requests
  The petition lists a series of requests for Texas State University's
administration and student government.
  "We urge that Texas State University's administration:
  * Declare Texas State University a sanctuary for undocumented students,
workers, and community members.
  * Guarantee student privacy by refusing to release information regarding the
immigration status of students, staff, and/or university community members.
  * Prohibit campus housing discrimination based on immigration status.
  * Take measures to increase visibility, access, and expansion of resources
for immigrant, black, LGBTQIA, Muslim, and other underrepresented populations
(e.g. confidential counseling services, advocacy networks).
  * Bolster existing policies to address and denounce hostility and hate speech
 in our university community.
  * In the event of the arrest, imprisonment, detainment, and/or deportation of
 a student, enact arrangements for the online continuation of their courses
enabling the completion of their degree programs."


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                                 State Edition

Did local tweet spark Trump's voter claim?

BYLINE: Jonathan Tilove American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 954 words


The Sunday after the presidential election, Gregg Phillips, founder of a health
care analytics firm in Austin, tweeted "we have verified more than three million
votes cast by non-citizens. We are joining @truethevote to initiate legal
action."

The next day, Phillips's assertion, based solely on his tweet, was splashed
across the InfoWars site - run by Austin conspiracy theorist Alex Jones - that
has become an agitprop site for President-elect Donald Trump, with the headline,
"Report: Three Million Votes in Presidential Election Cast by Illegal Aliens.
Trump may have won popular vote." It was quickly picked up by the Drudge Report,
a premier aggregator of the web with its own pro-Trump bent, which changed
"Report" to "Claim."

Phillips, a former executive with the Texas Health and Human Services Commission
and prolific tweeter on voting fraud, was astonished his tweet was given such
prominence. No one had called him.

The Sunday after Thanksgiving, when millions of Americans were watching
football, the president-elect, apparently vexed by Hillary Clinton's more than 2
million vote lead in the popular vote and Green Party presidential candidate
Jill Stein's effort to get recounts in three states that Trump narrowly won,
turned to Twitter, seemingly inspired by Phillips' math.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," he tweeted.

Trump was lambasted far and wide, and Phillips, whose tweet was quickly
pinpointed as his inspiration, was besieged by reporters, fact-checkers and
angry tweeters telling him to put up or shut up.

'Isn't everything on Twitter fake?'

Phillips' tweet was a statement of what he thinks he will be able to prove once
he is able to analyze True the Vote's 50-state, 180-million-registered-voter
database when it is updated to reflect the election - not a statement, as it
sounded, of what he was able to prove right now. Any legal action will wait for
a Trump Justice Department.

Phillips said he thought Twitter allowed that kind of latitude.

"When did a tweet become news?" Phillips told the American-Statesman. "I'm just
like a guy. I'm an ordinary guy. There are billions of tweets every single day
and because somebody picked it up, made something of something I wrote, all of a
sudden the president-elect is talking about me?"

"Seriously, is a tweet really news?" Phillips said. "Isn't everything on Twitter
fake?"

To his critics, Trump's claim was the latest egregious example of his being a
willing and eager sucker for fake news, or worse.

"This is a lie, part of Mr. Trump's pattern, stretching back many years, of
disregard for indisputable facts," The New York Times wrote in its lead
editorial Tuesday. "There is no evidence of illegal voting on even a small scale
anywhere in the country, let alone a systematic conspiracy involving â
millions.' "

PolitiFact rated the claim Pants on Fire. Washington Post fact checker Glenn
Kessler gave it Four Pinocchios.

"Now that Trump is on the verge of becoming president, he needs to be more
careful about making wild allegations with little basis in fact, especially if
the claim emerged from a handful of tweets and conspiracy-minded websites,"
Kessler wrote. "He will quickly find that such statements will undermine his
authority on other matters."

Trump's inspiration?

Phillips doesn't think his tweet inspired Trump.

He notes that the Presidential Transition Team directed reporters to a 2014
Washington Post report by Old Dominion University political scientists Jesse
Richman and David Earnest, whose study concluded that "some non-citizens
participate in U.S. elections, and that this participation has been large enough
to change meaningful election outcomes including Electoral College votes, and
Congressional elections. Noncitizen votes likely gave Senate Democrats the
pivotal 60th vote needed to overcome filibusters in order to pass health care
reform and other Obama administration priorities in the 111th Congress."

Richman and Earnest, whose study was bombarded with criticism, concluded illegal
voting might have enabled the passage of Obamacare.

Caroline Engelbrecht, founder of the Houston-based True the Vote, a right of
center voter integrity group, said it will be some time into the new year before
the group will have updated its 50-state database and that Phillips and others
will analyze it looking for flaws - dead people on the rolls, duplicate
registrations and noncitizen voters, who they will ferret out by triangulating
against other databases.

It is, she said, an unprecedented effort.

Of Phillips, Engelbrecht said, "At the end of the day (Phillips) is on my board,
he is my friend, he is a rock-solid individual and I stand by him and I stand by
what he said and that's it."

And, she said, "We put out a statement saying we support President-elect Trump's
comment about the potential that millions of votes were illegally cast."

"I am going to stand by the numbers. The numbers are accurate," Phillips said.
"I am going to do exactly what I said I'm going to do. I'm going to release all
the information whether it turns out I'm right or wrong, whatever comes out of
our final analysis and all the hard work of going through this stuff. I'm going
to come out and say either I was wrong or I was right. I'm going to come out and
do that."

But, what really unnerved Phillips was the Twitter venom directed his way after
he was identified as the president-elect's apparent inspiration.

"In the last couple of days I've been called a Nazi, a Russian, a traitor, an
asshole, a racist, all on Twitter," Phillips said. "I'm none of the above, none.
I'm truly just an ordinary guy."

Contact Jonathan Tilove

at 512-445-3572.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



CORRECTION: A front-page story Wednesday about an Austin tweet that might have
been the inspiration for a Donald Trump tweet on voter fraud incorrectly
reported the first name of the founder of True the Vote. Her name is Catherine
Engelbrecht.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Together As One: Sharing The Political Rally Experience;
Generation Next Staffer Recalls Democratic Rallies In Philadelphia

BYLINE: Katie Weaver, 18

SECTION: E; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 634  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


As I was well aware before starting my freshman year at Temple University, there
are many tangible benefits to attending college in a large city.

Countless possibilities for enhanced studies, internships and exciting weekend
events are just outside my door. Whenever I look down Broad Street at the
skyscrapers of Philadelphia, I feel a sense of hope and excitement at the
opportunities that exist here.

Another benefit of living in a large city is the huge political presence here. I
did not expect that.

During the recent elections, Pennsylvania was a major point of contention in
both the presidential and senatorial races. And because of Philadelphia's
importance to the outcome of state elections, many politicians flocked here to
hold rallies.

I attended three of these rallies. Though the rallies' candidates did not win,
the hope instilled in me and the memories will stay with me for years to come.

Supporting McGinty, Clinton

The first rally was held at the University of Pennsylvania, where firebrand
Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren endorsed Katie McGinty, the Democratic
candidate for senator from Pennsylvania.

I was surprised to see how many adults attended, since it was held on a college
campus. My friend and I were the only young people in our row of the theater
where the rally was held. Though political activism is usually a trend
associated with liberal college students, it was interesting to see older people
interested. They had some of the loudest cheers of the event.

About two weeks after hearing Warren and McGinty speak, I found out President
Barack Obama was coming to endorse Democrat Hillary Clinton for president.

I had been waiting for the chance to see Obama for years. His campaign for the
presidency in 2008 was the catalyst for my interest in politics - though I
didn't understand the policies he was advocating (being only 10 years old at the
time), he was captivating and became one of my biggest role models.

I knew he would be an incredible speaker, and he absolutely was. As expected, I
was overcome with emotion listening to Obama speak. He was just as phenomenal as
I expected, and there was a surprise speech from Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf. I
left the rally feeling energized and invigorated for the final stretch of the
presidential race.

It also was amazing to see so many diverse groups of people at this rally:
students, women, teachers and unions.

Lasting impression

For security reasons, rally times and locations often were not announced until
about a day before the events. Because of this, plans had to be made rather
quickly, and sometimes they didn't always work out.

But when I found out Hillary Clinton's final rally, on the eve of Election Day,
would be held at Independence Hall, I knew I couldn't miss it. She would be
supported by the president (whom I was eager to hear again), Michelle Obama,
Bill and Chelsea Clinton, and even the musicians Bruce Springsteen and Bon Jovi.
History would be made, and I had to be there.

Unfortunately, none of my friends could make the rally, so I headed to Old City
alone. The energy I found there was truly amazing, and it just got better as the
night went on. To see so many people together in one place - all for one common
purpose - was one of the most inspiring experiences of my life.

When Clinton finally took the stage, I saw my political interests culminate in
one moment, and I knew I was ready to vote the next day and let my voice be
heard.

My candidates of choice did not see success this Election Day. That's democracy,
and I can't change it.

Another important facet of democracy is the ability to assemble and unite for
change, and that was the chance I had at the rallies I attended this fall. I
will remember them forever and take those memories to further spread change when
the 2020 election arrives.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jasmine Speaks, Left, And Generation Next Staffer Katie Weaver Attended
The Elizabeth Warren Rally At University Of Pennsylvania In Philadelphia Prior
To The Elections. Right, Weaver Attends Another Of Three Rallies Prior To The
Presidential Election.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Navigating Election Night With The Ghost Of 2000 In Mind

BYLINE: Lori Goodlin / From The Editor

SECTION: E; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 735  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Any journalist who worked the night of Nov. 7, 2000, and into the morning of
Nov. 8 knew this was coming.

That date, of course, was the presidential election that seemed as though it
would never end.

It didn't end that night or the next day. It wasn't until Dec. 12, 2000, that
the election was put to bed by the U.S. Supreme Court.

For journalists, the lesson was learned the hard way: Don't count your chickens
before they've hatched, as my mother would say.

In other words, don't be too quick to design a newspaper front page declaring
anyone a winner. And be ready to scrap it all and come up with a quick Plan B or
C.

In 2000 I worked at an afternoon newspaper, which meant our deadline was 10 a.m.
the day after the election. The page we planned and expected to publish
declaring either Al Gore or George Bush as our new president instead read
something like CHAOS IN FLORIDA: WHO'S PRESIDENT?

The 2000 presidential election is always in the back of my mind on Election Day.
It only happened that one time. But that's enough, in every year since, for the
inevitable foreboding to creep into my gut at some point before the polls close
and the presses start.

You see, in newsrooms, elections are special events, planned to minute detail in
the weeks and days before. There are extra pages to fill, round-the-clock
staffers to coordinate, logistics of photos and interviews to work out, pizza to
order (hey, we're human).

So, presidential elections are like Christmas Day. The biggest special event.
Only a handful of staffers work during the day; most of us are on the night
shift when the results come in, ready to pitch in during that crucial time
between when polls close (8 p.m.) and the presses start to run (12:20 a.m.).

Reporters have about a three-hour window to learn the results, interview the
winner and loser and write a story. The story goes to the copy editors for
editing and a headline. Then to the page designer for placement on a page. We do
this for up to eight to 10 stories and many pages on election night.

The wild card in the plans is always the Page 1 headline and design. We can't
wait until the polls close to start mocking up a Page 1 layout. That page is too
important in a presidential election year; it's often a keepsake.

So on Election Day this year, we started the process of designing the two Page 1
possibilities: Trump wins, or Clinton wins.

Actually, our headlines were YOU'RE HIRED or MADAM PRESIDENT.

By 6 p.m., we had two distinctly different but striking front pages, both good
to go except for the results.

Then the election happened.

We, like most news organizations this year, expected the polls to be true. (I
won't go into what happened with polling in this column.) Clinton was probably
going to win, and we'd probably know early. Some thought she'd be on her way to
a landslide by 9 p.m.

By 9:15 p.m., there was no landslide in sight. In fact, Trump was gaining
states. Then more.

The New York Times projection meter of who would likely win suddenly went from
an 80 percent Clinton win to a 55 percent Trump win.

States that by this time of night would normally have been called were too close
to call.

This wasn't going to be a quick one.

So the lesson of 2000 kicked in. Get a fallback position. And fast.

We came up with the headline NAILBITER and picked equal photos of each
candidate, never really thinking we'd use this front page.

But we were safe. We had it just in case.

As 10 p.m. turned into 10:30, we still thought we'd get a winner by our 12:20
deadline.

But 10:30 turned into 11:30, Trump was ahead and the states that were too close
to call were still too close to call.

At 11:45, we knew we were going with NAILBITER. We simply weren't going to know
who the next president was by our deadline.

But we suspected that news would be known before our papers were actually
delivered on doorsteps, which is why our small headline under NAILBITER read,
"RACE FOR PRESIDENCY TOO LOSE TO CALL AT PRESS TIME."

What a helpless feeling.

For professional news people, it's the worst feeling: the inability to tell the
news.

Sure enough, three hours after our presses had finished, so had the vote
tabulating. I awoke around 3:30 a.m. to a news alert on my phone: "Donald Trump
elected president of the U.S."

And our headline saying that would have to wait for another day.

At least we didn't have to wait a month.

 Lori Goodlin is print editor of LNP. Email her at lgoodlin@lnpnews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lori Goodlin From The Editor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             100 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Burying The Hatchet While Slicing The Holiday Turkey Thanksgiving Table Topics;

Political Divisions Leave Some Wary Of Dinnertime With Family For That One Day,
You Can Just Swallow It And Talk About Something Else. When We're Either Tempted
To Vent On The One Hand Or Gloat On The Other, You Know That's Not Necessarily
Going To Contribute To Anything Positive.

BYLINE: Mary Ellen Wright

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


THANKSGIVING

MARY ELLEN WRIGHT

MWRIGHT@LNPNEWS.COM

In many households across Lancaster County and elsewhere this year, the
Thanksgiving turkey will be accompanied by the elephant in the room.

It's that pesky presidential election, which has left a trail of vociferous
family arguments, bruised feelings and in-your-face social media posts.

So how will we all get through it - wanting to break bread with family members
on the other side of the political divide and yet fearing what they might say if
the topic of politics comes up?

Facing or avoiding

Some are avoiding Thanksgiving gatherings altogether. Others are going, but
preparing for what may come.

Take Bobbi and Tom Heil, of Lancaster, who voted for Hillary Clinton and are
heading to the Baltimore area to spend Thanksgiving with immediate and extended
family.

"It'll be a diverse group," Bobbi Heil said. "About half voted for (Donald)
Trump and half voted for Hillary. This year may be a little more tense (than
usual), but I think we've decided that the family being together and enjoying
the day is more important than rehashing all the (election) problems.

"There will be some jokes - there always are - and some digs. But we have three
granddaughters, and we want to be good role models for them.

"For that one day, you can just swallow it and talk about something else," she
added.

MaryRose Brunn, of Leola, is thankful she won't be getting together with her
family - which includes her parents and 10 siblings, many in the Pittsburgh area
- until a gathering in Maryland two days after Christmas.

Her parents are extremely conservative; her siblings are a mix of liberals and
conservatives.

"When (my family) talks politics, sometimes people leave the room," Brunn said.
"There are people who won't speak to each other for months when it comes to
politics. It's very divisive."

Brunn considers herself a libertarian and voted for Gary Johnson for president
as an alternative to the two major-party candidates. Her family reacted badly to
her decision, she noted.

"I'm terribly sad everyone is so angry," she said. "I'm escaping the whole thing
until the big get-together is planned (at Christmastime). I'm hoping things will
have calmed down by then."

Avoid the topic

"My suggestion would be to not bring up the election," said Rosa A. Cabezas
Fetterman, a licensed psychologist with New Life Counseling Services in Mount
Joy.

"One of the things I tell my clients is to not let the emotions flood the
intellect," Fetterman said. "You have to use your intellect, you have to use
wisdom ... but you can't do that when your emotions are flooding you. You'll say
things that you regret.

"(Unity) needs to start in those practical, day-to-day settings. Thanksgiving is
a wonderful time of the year to celebrate and be grateful," Fetterman said.

"There's a scriptural verse, Ephesians 4:29, that comes to mind," said the Rev.
Joe DiPaolo, senior pastor of the First United Methodist Church of Lancaster,
said. "It says, 'Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but
only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it
may benefit those who listen.'"

The verse "tells us to think about what we're going to say before we open our
mouths, and ask, 'Will what I'm about to say provide anything positive to those
around me?'" DiPaolo said.

"When we're either tempted to vent on the one hand or gloat on the other,"
DiPaolo said, "you know that's not necessarily going to contribute to anything
positive."

If you're dreading Thanksgiving with family because of the election aftermath,
advised Gerald Ressler, a licensed clinical counselor and executive director of
Samaritan Counseling Services of Lancaster, "make sure you're at a place where
you can go, and engage, and it's not going to be detrimental to your emotional
well-being,"

If you can't go, Ressler said, you can "send a note expressing a desire to
remain connected" and add it just doesn't work for you this year.

If someone starts a political argument at the Thanksgiving table, Ressler said,
"remember that what's important is the relationship with your family members.
That's more important than trying to convince them they're wrong and you're
right. "

'Difficult relatives'

Maureen Leader, a public relations professional who lives in Lancaster, won't
say who she supported in the election. But she knows she and her husband will be
in the minority among political opinions at Thanksgiving dinner with siblings,
in-laws and others.

She plans to handle the political divide "by keeping my mouth shut."

"Our family hardly ever gets together and I love my family. So why waste this
time on something that could cause rancor?

"No one is going to change their mind anyway," she said. "It's not like, 'oh you
know, you're absolutely right, Maureen. I really should have voted for your
candidate. Please pass the mashed potatoes. ...' "

"But just to be sure," Leader added, "I am bringing wine with a cute wooden sign
on it ... that says, 'Goes well with turkey and difficult relatives.' And I'm
saying that WE'RE the difficult relatives."

- Bobbi Heil, of Lancaster

If you're going to avoid letting a contentious political discussion ruin your
Thanksgiving dinner, you might want to avoid the topic of the election
altogether.

Counselors and clergy recommend talking about something other than politics
around the holiday table to keep family relations peaceful. For the host of the
dinner, that may mean having other discussion topics at the ready.

Five years ago, AARP Bulletin published a list of multigenerational
conversation-starters families can use around the Thanksgiving table.

These "story starters," AARP said, are designed to help family members "ask each
other questions, share something new and, perhaps, bridge a generation gap."

Family members can take turns filling in the blank to such topics as:

"The historical moment I remember best is ______."

"One time, I got in hot water when ______," and its corollary, "But I didn't get
caught when ______."

"My favorite toy was ______."

"My best surprise ever was ______."

"My first kiss was ______."

"A secret I wish I hadn't kept is ______."

"Something I wish was still sold in stores is ______."

"My first music player was a ______ and I liked to listen to ______ on it."

"My favorite thing about someone at this table is ______."

(Two topics on the list you might want to skip: "Politically, I consider myself
a ______," and

"My religion is ______ because ______.")

The list is online on AARP's website:

bit.ly/AARPStoryStarters.

- Mary Ellen Wright

- Rev. Joe DiPaolo, senior pastor of the First United Methodist Church of
Lancaster

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             101 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Giving Thanks Find More Online;
The Issue

BYLINE: In Our Words

SECTION: A; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 631  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Today is Thankgiving, the day when Americans gather to give thanks for the
blessings in their lives. According to the National Archives, "President George
Washington issued a proclamation naming Thursday, November 26, 1789, as a 'Day
of Publick Thanksgivin(g).' " In 1941, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt
signed a resolution establishing the fourth Thursday in November as the federal
Thanksgiving holiday.

Even if you're working today, we hope you find a way to celebrate this most
American, most inclusive, of holidays. (Especially if you're a first responder,
police officer or hospital employee, we thank you.)

Even if you've suffered a great loss this year, even if there's an empty chair
at your Thanksgiving table, we hope you find something for which to be thankful
today.

If you're alone, or your wallet's too thin to prepare a feast, we hope you're
able to make your way to one of the many Thanksgiving meals being offered around
Lancaster County. We extend our thanks to the church and nonprofit volunteers
who are generously offering their time and talents to make those meals possible.

If, after a divisive presidential election, you're walking on eggshells with
your relatives as you pass the sweet potatoes, we hope you can set aside your
differences long enough to enjoy this special festive meal.

This has been a doozy of a year, hasn't it? So contentious was the election that
MaryRose Brunn of Leola told LNP she was thankful she wouldn't be seeing her
family members - who hold a mix of conservative and liberal views - until
Christmastime.

Brunn, a regular writer of letters to the editor and a libertarian, said, "I'm
terribly sad everyone is so angry."

There is, undoubtedly, a lot of lingering anger. Which is the reason some
counselors are giving advice that runs counter to what they might ordinarily
give: Don't talk about the elephant - and donkey --in the room. Today's not the
day to hash out your political differences.

"You have to use your intellect, you have to use wisdom ... but you can't do
that when your emotions are flooding you," Rosa A. Cabezas Fetterman, a licensed
psychologist with New Life Counseling Services in Mount Joy, told LNP. "You'll
say things that you regret."

Unity, she said, "needs to start in those practical, day-to-day settings.
Thanksgiving is a wonderful time of the year to celebrate and be grateful."

We're not suggesting you abandon your deeply held political point of view,
whatever it may be. But in the words of the immortal Queen Elsa of Arendelle,
let it go - for today, anyway. You can resume battle stations after the last
turkey sandwich has been eaten.

Today, focus on what you have in common with your family members. Try to focus
on the qualities you admire in them. Talk about the things for which you are
thankful.

Among the many things we're grateful for is the generosity of Lancaster County
residents. Last week, the Lancaster County Community Foundation raised $7.1
million for nonprofit organizations in its 24-hour giving marathon, the
Extraordinary Give.

Water Street Mission, the Children Deserve a Chance Foundation, Schreiber
Pediatric Rehab Center, Church World Service Lancaster and Central Pennsylvania
Food Bank were among the nonprofits that raised the highest sums.

"The numbers are incredible, but as impressive as they are, they don't come
close to measuring the community pride and joy and love of Lancaster that was
really on display here," Sam Bressi, foundation president, told LNP. "To me, it
really is more about the sense of coming together to create a brighter future.
The outpouring of generosity in this community is second to none."

We couldn't agree more.

And today, as on every day, we are grateful to be a part of this amazing
community.

Happy Thanksgiving.

bit.ly/FreeThanksgivingMealsList

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             102 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

A Call For Reawakening Of Grace In Our World

BYLINE: Amy Williams

SECTION: A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 497  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


In 1921, Emily Post wrote her first book, "Etiquette in Society, in Business, in
Politics and at Home," later referred to simply as "Etiquette."

Between 1922 and 1942, 650,000 copies of "Etiquette" were sold in America. Many
think of this book as "the manners book," but the book addresses far more than
choosing the appropriate attire or which fork to use first at a formal dinner.

Post wrote about the importance of a society that embraces proper etiquette. To
her, etiquette was much more than a set of manners but rather the concept of
individuals embracing gracious behavior toward others based on the fundamental
pillars of respect, consideration and honesty.

Call me old-fashioned, but I long to go back to a day when hundreds of thousands
of Americans were buying books about etiquette.

While we have freshly witnessed wins and losses up and down the ballot in
political races across our country, a great loss for Americans occurred long
before a single ballot was ever cast: Americans have lost grace. And, sadly, the
art of gracious living is quickly becoming a dying art in America.

We have forgotten how to care for our fellow citizens with consideration,
respect and honesty, and we have neglected to require that these same principles
be practiced by our political leaders. There was a time when a demonstrated lack
of gracious behavior or evidence of blatant dishonesty by a presidential
candidate would have been catastrophic to a bid for the White House.

This political cycle left many of us feeling hopeless, without a voice and
without a candidate who represented the values we hold dear. But the candidates
themselves are not fully to blame. When we neglect to stand for the pillars of
etiquette in society or, even worse, when we fail to notice their absence within
ourselves, we are rewarded with candidates who truly do represent who we've
become as a nation.

Abandoning gracious behavior toward those who don't adhere to our own set of
values is a great loss for us all. While our voices may or may not have been
heard via the victory of our choice of candidate, we each have a voice that is
heard loudly every day by someone - a spouse, a child, a parent, a student, a
co-worker, a peer, a neighbor, a person sitting near us in a coffee shop, a
fellow commuter.

We all have a circle of impact, people toward whom we can demonstrate gracious
behavior, regardless of whether their political or moral persuasions are the
same as our own, and regardless of whether they choose to return the courtesy.

Emily Post's book may be nearly a hundred years old, but her pillars of
etiquette are timeless and cross-cultural.

The behaviors of a society at large are a reflection of the behaviors being
modeled and practiced in its homes. So as we sit across the table from family
and friends this holiday weekend, let us put aside the emotions of political
discord. Instead, let's get started on the good work of redeeming the lost art
of gracious living, which would be a win for all.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Amy Williams Special To Lnp

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             103 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Officials Consider Recount Merits;
Election 2016 Say It's Unlikely, Although 11 Precincts May Be Eligible

BYLINE: Sam Janesch

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 671  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


SAM JANESCH

SJANESCH@LNPNEWS.COM

Lancaster County officials will discuss today the possibility of recounting
votes in nearly a dozen local precincts after Green Party presidential nominee
Jill Stein challenged Pennsylvania's election results.

Stein's last-minute effort - through a lawsuit and by mobilizing voters to
petition against their local election results - to determine whether hacking or
any other undue influence contributed to President-elect Donald Trump's roughly
71,000-vote margin of victory over Hillary Clinton in Pennsylvania.

In Lancaster County, 51 county voters filed petitions Monday asking for recounts
of their precincts, Lancaster County Chief Registrar Randall Wenger said.

But out of 240 county precincts, Wenger said only 11 would be eligible for a
recount under the election code, which requires three different voters from a
precinct to all file petitions.

The petitions, which allege there are discrepancies and errors "not apparent on
the face of the returns," led the county's Board of Elections to delay its
certification of election results to the Department of State, which was planned
for Monday.

While officials say that's an unusual step in itself, it may be unlikely to
result in any precincts actually being recounted.

Josh Parsons, a Republican county commissioner and elections board chairman,
said there are potentially two problems with the petitions that might not allow
for a recount under the election code.

One is that the petitions don't allege specific discrepancies within their
particular precinct, Parsons said. Another is that the code requires petitions
be received before the county computes its final vote totals. That happened last
week.

"If you can just simply allege that a recount should be done because some
computer somewhere in the country was hacked, then anyone could do that for any
election at any time," Parsons said. "And I don't think that's what the law
intended."

Why they're challenging

Laura Campbell, a Marietta resident who submitted a petition to recount her
precinct at the East Donegal Township Building, said she doesn't know if a
recount would uncover any kind of voter fraud here.

But it doesn't hurt to make sure, she says.

"I don't know if this will make any change, but I do think no matter who won,
the results should be recounted to make sure the process was done correctly,"
said Campbell, whose husband Abram also submitted a petition in their precinct.

Kyrah Malan, a retired minister and hypnotherapist from Manheim Township, also
filed a petition, saying she was convinced by arguments that electronic voting
machines could have been hacked using malware.

"If the vote counts are accurate, we will have the reassurance we need," she
said. "If they aren't, we will know we have an important job to do."

Historically, election recounts have resulted in very little changes to the
original results.

Slim chances

Pennsylvania Secretary of State Pedro Cortes has said a recount would result in
barely any difference and there is no evidence of cyberattacks or other
tampering of the results.

In Lancaster County, one of the most recent recounts was held in 2009, when
Lancaster Township supervisor Tony Allen, a Republican, was unseated by Democrat
Benjamin H. Bamford. The original tally had Bamford winning by a margin of 11
votes out of 2,371 votes cast.

After 27 registered voters petitioned the elections board for a recount, the
election result did not change, but Bamford's margin of victory grew by two
votes.

For recounts of statewide race results, the chances of an overturned election
winner are extremely rare, according to the nonpartisan election research group
FairVote. The group found, out of 4,687 statewide general elections between 2000
and 2015, only 27 were recounted - and just three of those changed the outcome.

The largest change of votes in a recount during that time was when Democratic
presidential nominee Al Gore gained 1,247 votes on Republican George W. Bush in
the 2000 Florida recount, which wasn't enough to flip the state.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             104 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Officials: No Recount For County;
Election 2016 Effort Came After Local Deadline; Trump's Victory Here Now
Certified

BYLINE: Sam Janesch

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 477  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


SAM JANESCH

SJANESCH@LNPNEWS.COM

Lancaster County certified its final election results with the state Wednesday
after officials here rejected voters' petitions to recount nearly a dozen
precincts.

The county Board of Elections, made up of the three county commissioners, said
the 51 petitions they received from voters Monday needed to be filed in the
Court of Common Pleas, not the elections office, because the deadline had
passed.

The last-minute recount effort was pushed by Green Party presidential nominee
Jill Stein to challenge President-elect Donald Trump's roughly 71,000-vote
margin of victory over Hillary Clinton in Pennsylvania. Stein has argued that
irregularities may have played a role in Trump's surprise win.

She filed a lawsuit on behalf of 100 voters in Commonwealth Court to request a
statewide recount. She also encouraged individual voters to petition their
county board of elections to order recounts of their individual precincts - a
process that, in part, requires three voters from a precinct to file separate
petitions.

Of the voters who filed them Monday, 11 of 240 county precincts had at least
three voters file petitions, and therefore would have been potentially eligible
for a recount.

Still, the passed deadline made the county unable to even consider the
petitions, the board argued.

Assistant County Solicitor Mel Newcomer said because the county already
completed its final computation of election results -which it did Nov. 23 after
weeks of counting all absentee, military, provisional and write-in ballots - it
would be unable to consider the recount petitions.

Newcomer said Pennsylvania Department of State, which oversees elections,
informed them the petitions would instead need to be filed in court.

The final count

The certified results will show Trump winning the county with 137,914 votes
while Clinton garnered 91,093 votes.

County Commissioner Craig Lehman, a Democrat, said he has such confidence in the
county's elections that if they were the proper venue to consider the recount
petitions, he would be in favor of ordering them just to show the system is
fair.

"There are folks out there who are stirring the pot, who are really undermining
our election system in a way that is unhealthy for this country," Lehman said.

Republican Commissioner Josh Parsons called the petitions - all of which were
downloaded from Jill Stein's website and include the same argument about hacking
from a Michigan State University professor - "frivolous and frankly
inappropriate" because they don't allege problems specifically occurred here.

Commissioner Dennis Stuckey, also a Republican, agreed. He said he was concerned
this was an organized effort, using an argument that voting machines could be
hacked, even though none of the county machines are connected to the internet.
To be hacked, they would need to be manually tampered with.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             105 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Don't back off from freedom of global trade

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 557 words

ABSTRACT

FRIDAY MAIN EDIT

FULL TEXT

Campaigning is one thing. Governing, especially at the presidential level is
another. Some know this intuitively. Others learn in a hard school.

Both major party presidential candidates this year came out against the complex
trade pact called the Trans-Pacific Partnership. They knew that, especially for
workers, and out-of-workers, in America's heartland, free trade with other
nations can seem like a fool's bargain. These agreements with low-wage nations
understandably look like an unfair deal that end up destroying American
manufacturing jobs.

It's much easier to say that on the hustings than to go into an eggheady
economic analysis about the efficiencies of world markets raising all boats.

But the fact of the matter is that Hillary Clinton changed her position on the
TPP for strategic reasons after she had supported the trade agreement as
secretary of state.

And one arm of President-elect Donald Trump's business empire sells clothes made
in China and elsewhere in the Far East. He knows better than the rest of us that
slapping a 45 percent tariff on a silk necktie would not make it any easier to
sell.

Nor would doing so be anything like a bargain for the American consumer. Those
incredible deals at Walmart on T-shirts, and dress shirts, made in Bangladesh
and Colombia are made possible by trade agreements such as NAFTA and TPP, which,
by the way, includes thousands of tax cuts for American businesses that would
make trade a better two-way street for our country's exporters as well as
importers.

The benefits of free trade are one of the key elements of international commerce
on which economists on the right, the center and the left all agree. Running the
numbers, it turns out that the best way to increase prosperity in all the
nations of the world is to allow each country's economy to do what it does best.
Chinese companies manufacture iPhones and clothing more efficiently than we do
here. We're a whole lot better, for instance, at postsecondary education - six
of the top 10 universities in the world are American - and at creating
intellectual property, with eight of the top 10 brands, from Apple to Visa,
being American.

The incoming president, in a different role than campaigner, will do well to
continue to fine-tune trade agreements in the American interest rather than
cancel them.

Protectionism is a misnomer- trade wars protect no one, creating equal and
opposite reactions from other countries that would greatly harm American workers
and consumers. And the fact is that presidents on their own can only increase
tariffs 15 percent, and then only for 150 days, unless a state of emergency is
declared, an unlikely scenario.

One clear way for a new administration to increase the efficiencies free trade
creates is to call out China's blatant cheating on some of the agreements in
place, from its subsidizing the price of rice and wheat to its currency
manipulation to its stealing patented ideas to its hacking into our companies'
email systems to its counterfeiting of our brands.

Demanding compliance with current and future trade agreements, rather than
backing away from them or pretending that discredited protectionist policies
would help the average American, is the courageous course the new administration
must take if it wants to ensure prosperity for our nation.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             106 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Religious group believes Trump will keep promises

BYLINE: Laurie Goodstein; The New York Times

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 81

LENGTH: 847 words


Donald Trump rarely goes to church, said he's never sought forgiveness for his
sins, and in his acceptance speech early Wednesday, never mentioned God.

Religion was almost invisible during the presidential campaign, and yet it is
the missing piece in understanding Trump's victory. The Christian right worked
largely under the national media's radar this year, but it helped deliver the
presidency to a thrice-married mogul who bragged about groping women and has
been accused by multiple women of actually doing it.

They were willing to forgive Trump's personal transgressions because he stoked
their fears that a Hillary Clinton administration would take away their
religious liberties, use their tax dollars to fund late-term abortions at home
and abroad, and expand the rights of gay and transgender people, political
analysts said. Trump warned at rallies and at conservative Christian gatherings
that he alone was their last hope to protect them against a changing culture,
using the refrain, "This is your last chance."

Now that he has won, evangelical leaders said they are confident Trump will
deliver on the political promises he made to them. These include appointing a
conservative to the Supreme Court, defunding Planned Parenthood, protecting
businesses that refuse to provide services for same-sex weddings and rescinding
the mandate in the Affordable Care Act that requires insurance coverage for
birth control.

And with Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, an evangelical with a record of legislating
against abortion and same-sex marriage, as vice president, Christian leaders say
they feel reassured they will have access to the White House and a seat at the
table.

"I am confident he will do as president what he said he would do as a
candidate," said Ralph Reed, chairman of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, who
helped mobilize Christian voters for Trump.

White evangelicals and Catholics voted for Trump at even higher rates than they
voted for the last two Republican presidential nominees, John McCain and Mitt
Romney, according to an analysis by the Pew Research Center.

"The wall of white Christian voters held," said Robert P. Jones, chief executive
of the Public Religion Research Institute and author of "The End of White
Christian America."

White evangelicals make up 26 percent of the American electorate, and 81 percent
of them voted for Trump, despite loud criticism by some in their ranks that he
was racist, misogynistic and unfit for the presidency. Only 16 percent voted for
Clinton.

Catholics, who make up 23 percent of the electorate, supported Trump over
Clinton by 52 to 45 percent. White Catholics voted for him in far greater
proportions than Hispanic Catholics, who favored Clinton over Trump, 67 to 26
percent.

"There was no way he had a chance without the pop of that Catholic vote," Reed
said.

Trump was not the first choice of most evangelicals or Catholics. But he
gradually won their trust, speaking at Liberty University in Virginia, the
largest Christian college in the country, doing nine interviews with Pat
Robertson's Christian Broadcasting Network and building relationships with
Pentecostal preachers. In June, he met with nearly 1,000 evangelical and
Catholic leaders from around the country in a hotel ballroom in New York. In
October, he sent a letter to the Catholic Leadership Conference in Denver,
promising, "I will fight for you."

Clinton, in contrast, failed to connect with white evangelicals and Catholics,
said Michael Wear, a political consultant who served as a faith adviser for
President Obama.

"Evangelicals feel embattled, they feel isolated, and Trump understood that and
appealed to them on completely Machiavellian terms. But Hillary actually
confirmed their sense of isolation by not reaching out to them," said Wear, the
author of "Reclaiming Hope: Lessons Learned in the Obama White House About the
Future of Faith in America." "Hillary's lack of outreach basically told
evangelicals, 'You need Trump as much as Trump says you do.'"

As recently as five years ago, Christians were far more judgmental of
politicians accused of transgressions in their personal lives. Now, in the era
of Trump, there is more tolerance, especially among evangelicals, according to a
study by Jones' institute. The group often called "values voters" was not
dissuaded by headlines about Trump sexually harassing women, lying, refusing to
pay taxes or stiffing contractors.

"Trump has really changed their entire political ethic. It's moved from a
principled basis to more of a utilitarian ethic, where the ends justify the
means," Jones said.

There were prominent evangelicals publicly opposed to Trump - a phenomenon that
Reed argued only brought more attention to those who supported him. But now that
Trump is headed for the White House, some of those "Never Trump" evangelicals
are coming around.

Russell Moore, president of the Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission of the
Southern Baptist Convention, said he would "give the new president the benefit
of the doubt." If Nixon could go to China, said Moore, Trump could be a
"unifying figure."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             107 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Get ready for a new voting system debuting in 2018

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 713 words



If you voted this fall in a neighborhood garage or the clubhouse of a park or a
school auditorium, remember the experience well. It may not be repeated anytime
soon. If you saw American flags flying at your precinct polling place, that
sight may also disappear.

A whole new election system is about to begin in California, complete with "vote
centers" and a big expansion of early balloting. The new system will start
phasing in in 2018 in 14 counties and should be operative by 2020 everywhere in
the state.

One thing is for sure: Losing candidates and those who expect to lose will have
new fodder for the "rigged election" cry taken up so vocally this fall by
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. With more mail-in ballots
involved than ever before, same-day voter registration and personnel in place to
provide language assistance, charges of fraud will be common at least while the
new system is being broken in.

The hope behind the new system, pushed hard by Democratic Secretary of State
Alex Padilla and signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown, is to increase voter
turnout drastically.

After low turnout disappointed officials in 2014 and the off-year elections of
2013 and 2015, they began casting about for changes. The new system will deliver
mail-in ballots to every registered voter in the 28 days before the actual
Election Day, aiming to end any need to vote in a single place on just one day.

"We've got to ... implement a new voting model," said Democratic state Sen. Ben
Allen of Santa Monica, who sponsored the new system in the Legislature. "Our
current system has failed, as our voter turnout rates continued to decline
toward record lows."

Turnout in both the 2014 primary (25 percent of registered voters) and that
year's November general election (42 percent) was at record lows, making Padilla
and the Legislature a bit desperate to push numbers up.

So instead of voters needing to sign up to receive mail-in ballots for every
election, from now on they will go to everyone automatically. Never mind the
tradition of the secret ballot; everyone from labor unions to employers to
neighborhood groups is now free to hold ballot-marking parties before Election
Day. This has actually been true since mail-in voting became common in the late
1970s, and there have never been charges it led to mass fraud or coerced voting
for particular candidates or causes. But such outcries may arise now.

The guinea pigs for the new system will be voters in Calaveras, Inyo, Madera,
Napa, Nevada, Orange, Sacramento, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Shasta, Sierra, Sutter and Tuolumne counties, with in-person voting at centers
spotted around each county weeks before Election Day. Voters also will be able
to drop off ballots at those centers, rather than mailing them in.

Counties pushed for this, partly as a cost-cutting measure. The fewer polling
places, the lower the cost of an election. But counties moving to the new system
will all have to adopt detailed plans through a system involving public hearings
and input. Community groups, advocates for the disabled and other individuals
all will be able to express preferences for vote center locations. But expect
them to be placed in public buildings where there's either no rent or low rent.

The politicians behind this system claim it will provide far greater flexibility
than long-standing precinct polling places. "It's time to modernize the voting
process," said Democratic state Sen. Robert Hertzberg of Van Nuys, a co-sponsor.
"We need to provide the same convenience and flexibility (people) have in other
areas of their lives. You can stream a movie or deposit a check with your phone
any time, but without this (change), people still have to arrange their busy
schedules to get to a polling place on a single day and that has hurt turnout."

Only time will tell whether all this actually spurs more people to vote. And no
one knows whether the inevitable charges of fraud or vote-fixing will have any
merit. But the people behind the change are certainly correct about one thing:
Turnout had become far too low in recent years, often allowing a small minority
of eligible voters to choose the people who make key decisions for everyone.

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             108 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Court gives taxi competition a green light

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Tuesday editorial on taxi regulations

FULL TEXT

While everyone was preoccupied with the impending elections, and particularly
the presidential race, a federal appeals court quietly issued a pair of rulings
upholding deregulation in the taxi and ridesharing market.

The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals issued two separate rulings last month
affirming decisions that reforms opening up taxi markets to greater competition
in Chicago and Milwaukee did not violate the rights of entrenched taxi
interests. The Chicago case concerned the city's decision to allow ridesharing
services such as Uber and Lyft to operate. In the Milwaukee case, the largest
taxicab operator in the city sued after the city removed the cap on taxi
medallions, which significantly reduced the artificially inflated resale value
of the medallions.

Judge Richard Posner did not mince words in the court's Milwaukee decision: "The
plaintiffs' contention that the increased number of permits has taken property
away from the plaintiffs without compensation, in violation of the
constitutional protection of property, borders on the absurd. Property can take
a variety of forms, some of them intangible, such as patents. But a taxi permit
confers only a right to operate a taxicab (a right which, in Milwaukee, may be
sold). It does not create a right to be an oligopolist, and thus confers no
right to exclude others from operating taxis."

The decisions were hailed by the Institute for Justice, a libertarian
public-interest law firm that represented drivers and entrepreneurs in both
cases, and which also has won legal victories against taxi regulations in
Denver, Minneapolis and Bowling Green, Ohio.

"These cases clear the way for transportation freedom across the country," the
institute's Senior Attorney Anthony Sanders said in a statement. "For too long,
cities across the country have embraced an outdated mode of transportation
regulation that says competition is to be feared and that freedom for taxi
drivers or other transportation entrepreneurs is unthinkable. Today's rulings
confirm that there is absolutely no legal barrier to other cities' joining the
rising wave of cities embracing transportation freedom."

Ridesharing services have sparked a flurry of regulatory activity, both for
better and for worse. Initially, governments rushed to impose regulations on the
renegade disrupters, particularly in large cities with powerful traditional taxi
interests. But, as consumers have increasingly rendered their verdict in favor
of ridesharers, and the inevitability of the success of the new business model
has set in, there has been a backlash wave of deregulation - for both
ridesharing companies and taxis.

San Diego followed Milwaukee's lead, lifting its cap on taxi permits two years
ago, and cities across the nation - from Portland, Oregon, to Salt Lake City to
Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, to Sarasota, Florida - have deregulated in recent
years.

This is a great victory for entrepreneurs looking to make a living and
consumers, who benefit from the increased competition in the form of lower
prices and better service. Now, if only occupational licensing laws and other
regulatory and protectionist barriers could be brought down in equal measure and
fervor in other industries.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             109 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Pomona College shows support for undocumented

BYLINE: Beau Yarbrough; byarbrough@scng.com @LBY3 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words

ABSTRACT

Pomona College president calls on other college presidents to support DACA,
following in the recent footsteps of other California college and university
presidents.

FULL TEXT

CLAREMONT >> Pomona College President David Oxtoby joined a growing chorus of
Southern California college and university presidents last week when he voiced
his support for undocumented students.

On Thursday, Oxtoby sent a statement in support of the federal Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals policy and "our undocumented immigrant students" more
generally to other college and university presidents around the country.

"Since the advent of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in 2012,
we have seen the critical benefits of this program for our students, and the
highly positive impacts on our institutions and communities," Oxtoby's statement
said in part. "DACA beneficiaries on our campuses have been exemplary student
scholars and student leaders, working across campus and in the community.

"With DACA, our students and alumni have been able to pursue opportunities in
business, education, high tech, and the nonprofit sector; they have gone to
medical school,

law school and graduate schools in numerous disciplines. They are actively
contributing to their local communities and economies."

The policy was a product of the Obama administration and many now wonder about
its future under the administration of President-elect Donald Trump, who made
increased immigration enforcement and curtailing the entry of some immigrants a
central part of his presidential campaign. On the campaign trail, Trump has said
he would repeal DACA if elected.

Oxtoby is hoping Trump will change his mind.

"To our country's leaders, we say that DACA should be upheld, continued, and
expanded," the statement said. "We are prepared to meet with you to present our
case. This is both a moral imperative and a national necessity. America needs
talent - and these students, who have been raised and educated in the United
States, are already part of our national community. They represent what is best
about America, and as scholars and leaders they are essential to the future."

According to Pomona College spokeswoman Patricia Cecilia Zurita, "dozens of
presidents have joined the initiative already."

As of 10:30 a.m. Monday, more than 130 college and university presidents from
public and private institutions have a signed statement offering to meet with
U.S. leaders on the issue.

Oxtoby's letter puts him in step with other California educators and
politicians, including California State University Chancellor Timothy P. White
and state Attorney General and U.S. Sen.-elect Kamala Harris.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             110 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Food not feud at the table;
Happy holiday: How to remain civil while talking political turkey today

BYLINE: Jeff Horseman; jhorseman@scng.com, @JeffHorseman

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1259 words

ABSTRACT

PE_R_POLITURKEY_1123 | Thanksgiving is a time for feasting, family get-togethers
and the inevitable dinner table screaming match between your arch-conservative
uncle and his ultra-liberal niece. With Donald Trump's election provoking strong
reactions, this Thanksgiving's politics talk could be even more intense. We talk
with experts to see if there's any way to make these debates more civil and
perhaps give liberals and conservatives resources to find talking points.
Reporter/Editor: Horseman/Bender Length: 33 Art: TK ETA: 5 p.m. Tuesday

FULL TEXT

"Pass the gravy. I'll have some more stuffing. Oh, and Uncle Bob, why do you
hate America?"

Such table talk might be a staple of your Thanksgiving dinner. But while
politics discussed over cranberry sauce is nothing new, this year's dinner-time
debate could be especially intense in the wake of November's divisive
presidential election.

"When it comes to politics, people get emotional because it relates to their
belief system," said Bart Rossi, a political psychologist who frequently appears
on TV news shows.

"They're not just challenging Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. It's your
personal belief system, which is serious stuff."

John Berry, a cabinet member of the Redlands Tea Party Patriots who loves to
talk politics, plans to spend Thanksgiving in Laguna Beach with his in-laws.

"Inside, I'm doing a Snoopy-like happy dance," said Berry, who describes himself
as "surrounded by liberals."

At Thanksgiving dinner, Berry said he will bite the inside of his cheeks to keep

from gloating.

"It's kind of funny. When the liberals won in 2008, they weren't shy about
expressing their opinion," Berry added. "But if they bring it up, I'm going to
give it to them both barrels."

The chances of your turkey coming with a side of discord could rise if your
relatives are geographically scattered. This election underscored deep divisions
between different parts of the country. California went strongly for Hillary
Clinton, but Donald Trump did better in the South and Rust Belt.

Before you lose your voice screaming at your niece about her Bernie Sanders
tattoo, here are some strategies for keeping the food and politics separate - or
at least, arguing in a way that won't cause anyone to storm off.

Expect the best

For many, just the thought of hearing Cousin Mike talk about immigration is
enough to cause heartburn hours before the first spoonful of Aunt Jane's
jalapeño-infused cheese dip.

Kate Sweeny, a UC Riverside associate psychology professor who studies how
people cope with uncertain waiting periods, suggests distracting yourself in a
way that completely consumes you. Maybe it's video games. Or it could be
gardening or getting a head start on that work project.

You could plan responses in advance, Sweeny said. For example, if your father
shows up in his "Make America Great Again" hat, say "Nice hat!" and change the
subject.

Sweeny also suggests not assuming the worst will happen. "I do think in this
sort of circumstance, expecting the best can only help you," Sweeny said. "If
you go in expecting the worst behavior, you might create a self-fulfilling
prophecy."

Thanksgiving hosts need to be prepared for how to handle political talk, said
Tim Muehlhoff, a professor of communications at Biola University in La Mirada.
"In addition to assessing what stuffing to make, a host couple needs to assess
the overall communication climate that will envelop the day's activities," he
said.

Reciting Abraham Lincoln's Thanksgiving Day proclamation from 1863 is a
Thanksgiving tradition for Huntington Beach resident Ken Gordon's family.

"It's a good time to bring up and point out to our children how much more
faith-based our nation was," said Gordon, 52, a decline-to-state/unaffiliated
voter who said he left the Republican Party.

This Thanksgiving, Gordon also anticipates talking about the party of Lincoln.
"I think, at the time of this proclamation, (the GOP was) the party of the
disenfranchised," he said. "I would not say that any longer."

Locker room talk

An easy way to avoid a yam-fueled shouting match over Trump's tax policy is to
make clear ahead of time that there's no space on the table for a family edition
of CNN's "Crossfire."

Bill Southworth, a professor of speech and debate history at the University of
Redlands, recommends a "locker room" edict.

"There are two subjects never to be discussed in the locker room - politics and
religion," he said. "All family gatherings (especially those with split voters)
should agree not to mention Clinton or Trump or anything about the election. If
violated, the offending party should leave or the guest should feel free to
depart."

Rossi, the political psychologist, suggests taking the blame for a moratorium.
"(Say) 'I've been especially involved (with this election). At this point in
time, I could use a day to relax and eat some turkey,'" he said.

You also can limit your political discussions to those with like-minded
viewpoints. "This way, you will find yourself talking to family and friends who
support your feelings and perspective," said David Kaplan, a family counselor
and chief professional officer of the American Counseling Association.

"Given the divisiveness of the recent election, trying to vent to someone who
voted for the candidate you opposed or to change their perspective is just going
to make you feel worse."

Radine Hiers, a Moreno Valley Democrat, said she won't be inviting any family
members "who disregarded the rights of any Americans."

"Never have I ever limited differing political views from my life. I really like
political debate," she said. "They could have voted for any other candidate. But
when they crossed into the very apparent and blatantly exposed racism ... (it)
is a line I will no longer accept."

How to argue

Avoidance and positivity have failed. Now, your sister-in-law demands to know
why you voted for "Crooked Hillary."

First, swallow the green beans. Then, rather than call her stupid, "(Say) 'I'm
on the other side and here's why,'" Rossi said. "Highlight as succinctly as
possible why you feel this way.

"You're not arguing to win the argument or change somebody else's personality.
You're just trying to get your point in and move on."

Listening also is important, Rossi said. "Be able to say back to the person what
they said. You can say 'I heard you and you said this. This is why I'm on the
other side of it.'"

You also could point out why you disagree even though you stand to benefit from
the election's outcome, Rossi said.

"Let's suppose you don't really like Donald Trump ... but let's say you get a
really big tax advantage (with his election)," he said. "You could say 'I
actually stand to gain in some ways. However, I'm really on the other side of
everything he stands for.' Or vice versa with Hillary Clinton."

Steven Smith, 29, of Riverside, who said he was "very disappointed" with the
election results, plans to host a family Thanksgiving.

"If anything, I want to take this day to be positive and remember why we are
eating (and) remember the reasons to be thankful and hopeful for the future."

If you must argue

Hopefully your Thanksgiving is full of good memories and family harmony. But if
you insist on arguing with your political opposites, here are some resources.

For conservatives:

National Review: www.nationalreview.com

Town Hall: townhall.com

For liberals:

The Daily Kos: www.dailykos.com

ThinkProgress: www.thinkprogress.org

For everyone else:

Search the website www.mediate.com for tips on how to resolve disputes.

For stress-handling tips, visit www.health.com/stress.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             111 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Trump proposes 2 women for Cabinet: DeVos for Education and Haley for U.N.

BYLINE: Julie Bykowicz and Steve Peoples; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 965 words

ABSTRACT

President-elect Donald Trump has chosen two women for his Cabinet-in-waiting:
South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations and prominent charter school advocate Betsy DeVos as his secretary of
education

FULL TEXT

PALM BEACH, Fla. >> Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald
Trump selected two Republican women on Wednesday who disparaged him during the
presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate Betsy DeVos to lead
the federal Department of Education.

Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet Trump praised her as "a proven
dealmaker." DeVos, like Trump, is new to government but has spent decades
working to change America's system of public education.

DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts
as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is
the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minority
selection after a string of announcements of white men.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role, which would make him the first black choice - presumably as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development - but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it
over the Thanksgiving holiday.

"I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our
inner cities great for everyone," Carson wrote on his Facebook page.

Wednesday's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the "alt-right,"
a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election.

He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with
family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving. He's
spending the holiday there after a week of interviews of potential appointees in
New York, punctuated by announcements of members of his national security team.

Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections was evident through much
of this year's campaign.

"The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley!" Trump wrote in
March. Haley denounced several of his campaign comments and urged voters to
"reject the siren call of the angriest voices."

DeVos told The Associated Press in July, "A lot of the things he has said are
very off-putting and concerning."

On Wednesday, Trump said of his U.N. selection: "Gov. Haley has a proven track
record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation
to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our
country."

She said she loved her South Carolina post but "when the president believes you
have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our
nation's standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed."

While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and
right.

The president of the National Education Association, Lily Eskelsen Garcia, said
in a statement that for years DeVos "has lobbied for failed schemes, like
vouchers - which take away funding and local control from our public schools -
to fund private schools at taxpayers' expense."

And Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, tweeted,
"Trump has chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the
creation of the Dept of Education."

At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor,
who has spent millions of dollars - along with her husband - to promote
candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the
Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign.

Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that
climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign
vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.

DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a "Q&A" statement that said directly
about Common Core: "I am not a supporter - period."

"I do support high standards," she said. But along the way Common Core "got
turned into a federal boondoggle."

Just two weeks ago, Trump shocked the political world - including many in his
own party - by winning the presidential contest. The billionaire New Yorker has
yet to take any formal steps to separate from his international business empire
as experts in both parties warn of potential conflicts of interest.

Trump will be sworn into office in less than 60 days. Beyond his Cabinet, he
must fill hundreds of high-level administration posts.

Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of
state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and
Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
formerly an outspoken Trump critic.

After secretary of state, the U.N. ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic
position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international
stage.

As for DeVos, her family has been active in Republican politics for decades,
especially as donors. Her husband, Dick, is an heir to the Amway fortune and a
former president of the company.

The American Federation for Children Action Fund, which DeVos chairs, and its
state-affiliated PACs invested in 121 races in 12 states in the general
election, spending $210,000 to support "pro-school choice" candidates in
Oklahoma alone.

"Under her leadership we will reform the U.S. education system and break the
bureaucracy that is holding our children back so that we can deliver world-class
education and school choice to all families," Trump said.

DeVos said in her own statement, "The status quo in education is not
acceptable."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             112 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Red state/blue state: Where would you rather live?

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 715 words


"The pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue
states," Barack Obama famously observed in 2004, several years before he ran for
president. "But I've got news for them: There's the United States of America."

Twelve years later, Obama is about to depart the White House, and by now he has
probably learned there are significant differences between so-called "red"
states that tend to vote Republican in presidential elections and "blue" ones
that usually support Democrats. The colors, of course, come from maps often used
as television graphics during election coverage.

What are some of those differences? While campaigning - at least before Donald
Trump - Republicans have tended to focus on values, claiming families and
traditional marriages are stronger in red states than blue ones, while Democrats
contend poor people, minorities and women are better off in blue ones.

California, of course, has been a consistently blue state since 1992, when Bill
Clinton carried it with a plurality of the vote against the elder George Bush,
not winning an actual majority here until 1996.

Republicans often say California Democrats have wrecked the Golden State over
the last 25 years, citing what they insist is a declining quality of life and an
expanded role for government.

It's true Democrats have dominated the Legislature almost all that time, passing
laws that regulate everything from cellphone use in cars to teaching about gay
history in high schools. A "nanny state," many Republicans call it, ignoring the
fact Republican governors like Pete Wilson and Arnold Schwarzenegger signed off
on most of the new regulations Democrats passed in the last quarter-century.

Ethnically speaking, California became blue when its Latinos began to get
politically active. But in many other ways, this is statistically a pretty
standard blue state, and there are major differences between those states and
their red rivals. Here are some (based on U.S. Census data):

o Blue states tend to have a more educated populace; California is fairly
typical with 37.4 percent of adults holding college degrees. Deeply blue
Massachusetts (despite its Republican governor) ranks first in this category
with 53.4 percent of adults holding at least a bachelor's degree. At the bottom
in this category is a corps of red states including Alaska at 26.6 percent,
Texas at 32.2 percent and Arizona with 33 percent.

o Red states tend to have a far higher percentage of people abusing drugs, led
by West Virginia with 25.8 persons out of every 100,000 dying of drug overdoses
each year, Utah with 18.4 and Alaska 18.1 in 2008, the last year for which
statistics are available. Red states like Louisiana, Arizona, Alabama, Oklahoma
and Tennessee all topped 14 per 100,000 in this sad category. California, again
in drug abuse a fairly normal blue state, saw only 10.4 persons out of every
100,000 take fatal overdoses, both from illegal drugs and prescription ones.
(Statistics from the Policy Impact Report of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.)

o A little counterintuitive, the map of states with the highest Census-reported
divorce rates is also almost all red, including Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alaska,
Alabama, Kentucky, Nevada (the only blue state here, but also the only state
with an active quickie divorce industry), Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee and
Arizona.

o Unemployment, on the other hand, is a mixed bag. In the latest Department of
Labor statistics, three red states (Alaska, Louisiana and West Virginia) are
among the top six, with Alaska leading the unfortunate way at 6.7 percent, but
they are joined by three usually blue states (Illinois, New Mexico and the
District of Columbia).

o Red state citizens tend to be more charitable, with the eight states donating
the highest share of their personal income to charity - Utah, Mississippi,
Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina, Idaho, Arkansas and Georgia - all pretty
reliably Republican. (Data from the Chronicle of Philanthropy.)

All of which raises some questions: Do Republican "family values" equate to
higher divorce rates and lower college education? Does going Democratic make
people less charitable? Or are none of these things linked to politics at all?

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             113 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 359 words

ABSTRACT

For all LANG papers

FULL TEXT

We asked readers, What should be Donald Trump's top priority as president?


New president should let Constitution be his guide

Donald Trump's top priority should be to learn and understand the Constitution
and the complexity of the presidency. I'm totally devastated by the outcome of
this presidential election, which was predicated on hate, fear, racism, bigotry
and lies.

Having the likes of a man like Trump becoming president of the U.S. is
frightening. I am hoping that this glorious country of ours isn't decimated by
this uninformed man who truly doesn't know how the U.S. government operates.

The job of the president is too important to hand over to a man not qualified,
who has a volatile temperament and is thin-skinned to criticism.

- Lois Eisenberg, Valencia

First, close the border

Trump should close the border first, stop the chaos and support the border
guards.

- Patricia Serio, Covina

Quit while he's ahead?

President-elect Trump's top priority should be resigning from office before he's
impeached.

- Ray Sherman, Duarte

A neutral view of Trump

I don't know what to think about Donald Trump's plans. Some I support, others I
don't. Love him or deplore him, he's got everyone's attention and it's been a
compelling story to watch unfold. Who knows what drama, success and failures
will emerge in the next four years?

One concern is how all the major news media lost credibility with biased
reporting. I commend the newspaper for trying to remain neutral.

- Lynn Wood, Long Beach

Follow the popular vote

He lost by more than 2 million votes; he should accept that he was not the
choice of the American people, and not accept a prize that he did not earn. He
can instruct electors pledged to him to vote for the real winner: Hillary
Clinton.

Let him avoid the example of Sarah Palin, who learned she couldn't be the boss
of everything and quit in the middle of her term as Alaska governor to make more
money.

- Stephen Kandis, Rancho Palos Verdes

More answers to this Question of the Week will be published Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             114 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Election officials blast Trump's allegations of rampant vote fraud

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 709 words

ABSTRACT

LDN-Z-TRUMP-FRAUD-CAL | Los Angeles County's elections chief denounced
allegations by President-elect Donald Trump of widespread election fraud,
calling it a "broad brush" accusation without substantiation that threatens to
undermine public confidence in the system. And California Secretary of State
Alex Padilla called the claims "baseless." From City News and AP 16" File photos
ETA: 3 PM

FULL TEXT

When President-elect Donald Trump claimed on Twitter that he was losing the
popular vote because of major fraud by millions of voters, one of the states he
pointed to was California, where the latest voting returns showed Hillary
Clinton, the Democrat, soundly defeating Trump.

But Trump's claim led to a furious reaction from California's top election
official, Alex Padilla, the secretary of state, this past weekend. Padilla
asserted that there was no evidence for the claim by the president-elect and
denounced Trump for what he said was unpresidential behavior.

"His unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in California and elsewhere are
absurd," Padilla posted on Twitter. "His reckless tweets are inappropriate and
unbecoming of a president-elect."

Los Angeles County's elections chief also denounced the allegations, calling it
a "broad brush" accusation without substantiation that threatens to undermine
public confidence in the system.

"It is frustrating to see this ongoing politicization of the voting process even
as California elections administrators continue the tedious and transparent
process of canvassing the Nov. 8 general election," said Dean Logan, the
county's registrar-recorder/county clerk and president of the California
Association of Clerks and Election Officials.

"Broad brush allegations of voter fraud and illegal voting serve only to
undermine the public's trust and confidence in the elections process and run the
risk of further deflating voter participation," he said. "California elections
administrators take the integrity of elections and access to voting very
seriously. Our state has a history of accurate and accountable elections.
Additionally, the voting process in California is open, transparent and subject
to public oversight and review."

California historically has been slow to count ballots, a reflection of both its
vast size and inefficiencies in many county voting operations. Given the fact
that this is an overwhelmingly Democratic state, that has meant that Clinton's
total vote count has grown steadily as ballots were tallied, adding to a
national lead of close to 2 million votes.

As of Saturday, Clinton had 8.1 million votes in California, compared with 4.2
million for Trump, according to the secretary of state's office. It was not
clear when the vote count might be concluded.

The count, and outcome, has been no surprise to anyone in a state with a history
of slow vote-counting. Officials in both parties had predicted this would happen
as early as election night.

Given California's long Democratic history, it was never in play during this
presidential election. But as the nation's most populated state, it tends to
have a significant influence on final national voting margins, as is apparently
the case this year.

Trump singled out three states in his tweet on "serious voter fraud": Virginia,
New Hampshire and California. He offered no evidence to back up the claim.

His remarks came as he denounced calls for a recount in three states that he won
by relatively small margins: Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. Jill Stein,
who was the Green Party candidate for president, said that she would move for a
recount. Aides to Clinton said they would cooperate with the effort, even as
they made it clear they thought it would not change the outcome.

Padilla is the highest-ranking Latino elected to state office in California.
Trump's poor showing here, many Democrats and Republicans said, came in no small
part because of his attacks on what he described as the threat of illegal
immigration, particularly by Mexicans. About 40 percent of California's
population is Latino.

"It appears that Mr. Trump is troubled by the fact that a growing majority of
Americans did not vote for him," Padilla said.

City News Service and The New York Times News Service contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             115 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Trump taps Mnuchin for Treasury, Chao for Transportation

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 653 words


WASHINGTON >> Steven Terner Mnuchin, a financier with deep roots on Wall Street
and in Hollywood but no government experience, is expected to be named Donald J.
Trump's Treasury secretary as soon as today, sources close to the transition
say.

On Tuesday, Trump named Elaine Chao, someone with previous government experience
and a husband who's Republican leader in the Senate, as his choice to be the
next secretary of transportation.

Mnuchin, 53, was the national

finance chairman for Trump's campaign. He began his career at Goldman Sachs,
where he became a partner, before creating his own hedge fund, moving to the
West Coast and entering the first rank of movie financiers by bankrolling hits
like the "X-Men" franchise and "Avatar."

As Treasury secretary, Mnuchin would play an important role in shaping the
administration's economic policies, including a package of promised tax cuts,
increased spending on infrastructure and changes in the terms of foreign trade.
He could also help lead any effort to roll back President Barack Obama's nuclear
deal with Iran and opening to Cuba by reimposing sanctions on Tehran and Havana.

His selection fits uneasily with much of Trump's campaign rhetoric attacking the
financial industry. Trump, in a campaign ad intended as a closing argument,
portrayed the chief executive of Goldman Sachs as the personification of a
global elite that the ad said had "robbed our working class."

But Mnuchin has said that he agrees with Trump's priorities, and he was an early
supporter of a candidate who clearly prizes loyalty.

When Trump won New York's Republican presidential primary in April, Mnuchin
attended the victory party. The next day, he accepted Trump's invitation to
become the campaign's national finance director.

Mnuchin, the son of a Goldman Sachs partner, joined the firm after graduating
from Yale University. He worked there for 17 years, rising to oversee trading in
government securities and mortgage bonds.

Mnuchin has never worked in government, but Treasury secretaries are often drawn
from the private sector. He would become the third Goldman alumnus to serve in
the job, after Henry M. Paulson Jr., under President George W. Bush; and Robert
E. Rubin, under President Bill Clinton.

Chao, nominated for transportation secretary, is an immigrant and a fixture of
the Republican establishment for two decades. She is a savvy and professional
practitioner of the capital's inside game.

Chao's selection signaled Trump's understanding of the need to surround himself
with people who can help him accomplish the most ambitious parts of his agenda,
even if they come from the political establishment he has so often scorned.

His transportation secretary is likely to be one of the more essential players.
Trump, a real estate magnate, has said that infrastructure redevelopment will be
a priority of his first 100 days in office. And Chao has experience -
politically and personally - in navigating the competing centers of power in the
capital. She is married to Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the majority leader.

This will be her second time serving in a White House Cabinet if she is
confirmed. As secretary of labor under President George W. Bush, she was the
only official in his administration to serve all eight years. Before that, she
worked in various federal government departments. She was a White House fellow
under President Ronald Reagan and the director of the Peace Corps under
President George H.W. Bush, who also named her deputy transportation secretary.

Return of Romney

The president-elect summoned a former foe, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney, for dinner Tuesday night to discuss the secretary of state job for a
second time.

Trump also met with Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, having met with former CIA director David Petraeus the day
before.

The N.Y. Times and Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             116 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday

Where's the balance?

BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 443 words


So much for respecting the political process. Remember, that's what both
President Obama and Hillary Clinton urged after she lost the presidential
election. The peaceful transfer of power is a hallmark of our democracy, and all
Americans -- no matter how they voted -- should support this cornerstone of our
republic.

Apparently, that's fine in theory but not in practice.

Donald Trump soon will be sworn in as our 45th president. He accomplished this
by carrying 30 states and accumulating 306 electoral votes.

So why should a major Massachusetts employer feel the need to apologize because
it agrees with a policy the president-elect also endorses?

By the way, socialist firebrand Bernie Sanders sides with Trump on this one --
as does Clinton, after flip-flopping during the presidential campaign.

So apparently, it's the who -- not the what -- that counts. Even if that who is
the president of the United States.

That's the incredible situation in which sneaker maker New Balance finds itself,
just because one of its officers stated the obvious.

Responding to a question by a Wall Street Journal reporter about the pending
Obama-backed Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, New Balance's vice
president of public affairs stated essentially that its business prospects
should improve with President Trump's policies in place.

That's because Trump -- plus Sanders, Clinton and many in Congress of both
parties -- see the TPP as a domestic jobs killer. New Balance, which operates
five factories in this country, including one in Lawrence, wants to protect
those jobs from unfair foreign competition, which it believes the TPP will
facilitate.

As a result, New Balance received tons of social- media outrage and boycott
threats, for suggesting that Trump might know something about business.

And now it's receiving advice on how to essentially apologize for daring to use
the name of the next president of the United States in a positive light.

Would there have been any indignation if that New Balance executive had
mentioned a president-elect Clinton in the same response? Of course not.

It's not the position; it's the person.

We're sorry New Balance has fallen victim to this toxic post-election
environment, especially since the company represents an industry struggling to
stay alive in this state and country.

We'd hope members of our congressional delegation would stick up for New Balance
and the high-paying jobs it represents, but as we've already observed, none
dares take the political risk of alienating the Democratic base.

And so we advise New Balance's employees to take notice of those who didn't come
to your company's defense in this time of crisis.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             117 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday

Trump makes 3 picks

BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1371 words


By David Nakamura, Philip Rucker and Elise Viebeck

The Washington Post

President-elect Donald Trump on Friday signaled his intention to deliver on his
hard-line campaign promises on immigration policy, voting rights, policing and
domestic surveillance of Muslims and others suspected of terrorist ties by
tapping a trio of staunch conservatives for senior national-security roles in
his administration.

Trump announced that he plans to nominate Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., as
attorney general and Rep. Mike Pompeo, R-Kan., as CIA director, while also
choosing retired Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn as his White House national security
adviser.

Trump's selections were greeted with widespread applause by his core supporters
and other Republicans. But Democrats and civil-rights advocates denounced
Sessions and Flynn for their controversial records, portending a potentially
messy Senate confirmation process for Sessions, a 20-year veteran of the
chamber.

The announcements came as Trump is weighing his choices for two of the Cabinet's
highest- profile posts: secretary of state and secretary of defense. He
retreated Friday afternoon to his golf club at Bedminster, N.J., where he
intends to spend the weekend with working sessions with his staff and visitors
-- including 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney.

Sessions, 69, was Trump's first endorser in the Senate and quickly became an
influential policy adviser to the GOP nominee. He consistently defended Trump,
including after an "Access Hollywood" video showed Trump bragging about grabbing
women by their genitals. Sessions argued that Trump's comments did not describe
sexual assault.

Sessions has been dogged by accusations of racism throughout his career. In
1986, he was denied a federal judgeship after former colleagues testified before
a Senate committee that he joked about the Ku Klux Klan, saying he thought they
were "OK, until he learned that they smoked marijuana."

The NAACP wrote in a Twitter message that Sessions' nomination is "deeply
troubling, and supports an old, ugly history where Civil Rights were not
regarded as core American values."

Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez, D-Ill., said in a statement: "If you have nostalgia for
the days when blacks kept quiet, gays were in the closet, immigrants were
invisible and women stayed in the kitchen, Senator Jefferson Beauregard Sessions
is your man."

Senate Republican leaders rallied to Sessions' defense and said they intended to
approve his nomination to lead the Justice Department and serve as the nation's
top law-enforcement officer.

In a statement, Trump heaped praise on his nominee, celebrating Sessions'
"world-class legal mind" and noting his tenure in Alabama as U.S. attorney and
state attorney general.

"Jeff is greatly admired by legal scholars and virtually everyone who knows
him," Trump said.

Sessions said in a statement that there was "no greater honor" than to lead the
Justice Department.

"I enthusiastically embrace President-elect Trump's vision for 'one America,'
and his commitment to equal justice under law," Sessions said. "I look forward
to fulfilling my duties with an unwavering dedication to fairness and
impartiality."

Because of Senate filibuster rule changes, Democrats' options to derail
Sessions' nomination are limited. To be confirmed, Sessions would need a simple
majority in the Republican-controlled chamber.

Unlike Sessions and Pompeo, Flynn is appointed and does not require Senate
confirmation. Still, Trump's pick of the three-star general and decorated
intelligence officer has ignited controversy.

Flynn has made inflammatory and derogatory comments about Muslims, and he
traveled to Moscow last year to dine alongside Russian President Vladimir Putin
at a gala celebrating RT, the state-run propaganda television network. Flynn
also supported Trump's call for a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United
States.

The president-elect is also scheduled to meet today with Romney, who was a
fierce critic of Trump's candidacy but who is being discussed as a potential
candidate for secretary of state.

Other scheduled visitors today include former D.C. public schools Chancellor
Michelle Rhee, Chicago Cubs co-owner Todd Ricketts and retired Marine Gen. James
Mattis, who is seen as a plausible defense secretary.

Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who is chairing Trump's transition, put a
positive spin on Trump's announced appointments and future selections during a
brief visit with reporters Friday at Trump Tower in New York.

"The president-elect is a man of action, and we've got a great number of men and
women with great qualifications who look forward to serving in this
administration," Pence said. "Our agency teams arrived in Washington, D.C., this
morning, and I am very confident it will be a smooth transition that will serve
to lead this country forward."

Trump characterized Flynn, who was one of his most trusted campaign advisers and
frequently traveled with him and spoke at rallies, as "one of the country's
foremost experts on military and intelligence matters."

"I am pleased that Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn will be by my side as we work to
defeat radical Islamic terrorism, navigate geopolitical challenges and keep
Americans safe at home and abroad," Trump said.

After meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Thursday evening, Trump
continued his outreach to world leaders on Friday by speaking by phone with NATO
Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.

During the campaign, Trump had said he might reconsider the United States'
commitment to the alliance. But he and Stoltenberg "underlined NATO's enduring
importance" during Friday's call, according to a statement from a NATO
spokeswoman. Stoltenberg invited Trump to Brussels for the NATO summit next
year.

As they have all week, potential administration appointees cycled through Trump
Tower on Friday for face-to-face meetings with the president-elect, including
Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., a potential defense-secretary candidate, and former
Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, who is under consideration to be U.S. ambassador to
Israel.

Huckabee swatted away questions from reporters about whether he was seeking a
position. "My job right now is to listen to the president-elect," he said. "It's
his job to make the decisions. . . . The only person giving out jobs in this
building is President-elect Donald Trump, not me."

In the meantime, the Trump transition named agency landing teams for the
departments of Defense, State and Justice, along with the National Security
Council, to help smooth the transfer of power in the weeks leading up to Trump's
inauguration Jan. 20. Teams will begin work in other agencies and departments
next week.

Trump's selection of Pompeo to lead the CIA did not spark as much controversy as
his choices of Sessions and Flynn.

Pompeo, 52, was elected to the House in 2010 as part of the first wave of
tea-party lawmakers. A U.S. Military Academy and Harvard Law School graduate, he
served as an Army cavalry officer before founding an aerospace company and
running an oil-field equipment manufacturing firm. He also has worked as an
attorney with the Washington mega-firm Williams and Connolly.

Pompeo serves on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and is a
close ally of Pence. He backed Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., over Trump in the
Republican primaries but supported Trump in the general election.

A vocal critic of Obama's nuclear accord with Iran, Pompeo gained prominence
through his role in the congressional investigation into the 2012 attacks in
Benghazi, Libya, and assailed former secretary of state Hillary Clinton during
the committee's hearings.

Trump said of Pompeo: "He has served our country with honor and spent his life
fighting for the security of our citizens... He will be a brilliant and
unrelenting leader for our intelligence community to ensure the safety of
Americans and our allies."

Senate Democrats have pledged a rigorous confirmation review for all of Trump's
nominees -- especially Sessions.

"I know Sen. Sessions and we work out in the gym, but the fact that he is a
senator does not absolve him from answering tough questions in the confirmation
process," incoming Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer, D-N.Y., said in a
statement.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             118 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday

EUGENE ROBINSON: Democrats must learn from the GOP and rebuild

BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 776 words


WASHINGTON -- The Republican Party is fractured by ideological divisions, led by
an inexperienced and unpredictable president-elect, and quite possibly headed
for a fratricidal civil war. The Democratic Party should be so lucky.

There is much unpleasant reality for Democrats to deal with right now, starting
with this: The GOP controls virtually everything. The two-party system is, at
best, 1 1/2.

Republicans won the presidency. They retained control of both houses of
Congress. Soon, when Donald Trump appoints a replacement for the late Justice
Antonin Scalia, they will re-establish a conservative majority on the Supreme
Court. As far as the federal government is concerned, that's the whole trifecta.

But there's much more: After making significant gains last week, Republicans
control both legislative chambers in 32 states -- and hold the governorships in
33. Some of the nation's most diverse and populous states, including Texas and
Florida, are living under one-party Republican rule.

Democrats should reject the urge to take comfort in favorable demographic
trends. It is true that within a generation, minorities will be in the majority
-- and that minorities tend to vote for Democrats. But what would the country be
like after 20 or 30 years of near-total Republican control? I'm sure most
progressives would join me in not wanting to run that dangerous experiment.

Did Democrats lose the White House because their presidential candidate had
baggage and was not perfect in every way? Come on, the Republicans nominated
Trump, for heaven's sake, a man who bragged about grabbing women by the
genitals. I don't have nearly enough space to list all the ways in which he
disqualified himself. Yet he won.

The Republican Party is so splintered -- the establishment, the tea-party wing,
the fiscal tightwads, the defense hawks, the social conservatives, the
libertarians and now the Trumpistas -- that sometimes I think of it as
Afghanistan: with each faction having its own warlords and grievances and goals.
Many of the demands they make upon Trump, House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will be uncompromisingly extreme and mutually
exclusive. There will be blood (metaphorically, of course).

Yet if Democrats expect to sit back and watch the GOP self-destruct, I fear they
will be disappointed. Consider this fact: The Republican Party not only survived
the Trump candidacy, but prospered. Why would the same not be true of a Trump
presidency?

One of the biggest lessons I draw from the election is that the GOP basically
came together behind its candidate. Despite all the Never Trump noise, most
prominent Republican officials eventually fell in line. Some voiced strong
reservations but said they would vote for him anyway, which amounted to an
endorsement. Others, such as the Bush family, declined to publicly proclaim
their opposition in a way that perhaps might have made a difference. Maybe they
thought he was bound to lose anyway; if so, they miscalculated.

Another lesson, perhaps the most important one, is that the Democratic Party
cannot hope to succeed by relying solely on its ability to win the popular vote
in presidential elections.

Democrats have won the popular vote in 1992, 1996, 2000, 2008, 2012 and now
2016. That's six out of the last seven presidential contests. Yet the Republican
Party is running the country, or at least most of it.

The Democratic Party cannot just wait for the next Barack Obama to come along.
The president is a unique political talent of the kind that appears only once in
a great while, when the stars magically align. Instead, Democrats need to do
what Republicans did, which is to build from the ground up and start winning
state and local elections.

A Democratic rebound has to begin with the basics: Getting people who agree with
you to vote. Less than 60 percent of those eligible to cast ballots in last
week's election bothered to do so. Conservatives who say this is "a center-right
nation" may be right in terms of who votes, but they're wrong in terms of who
could vote. Polls show that the country favors Democratic over Republican
positions on most issues.

The Democratic Party should put its energy and money into connecting with
potential voters at the grass-roots level. Trump made a bunch of pie-in-the-sky
promises he can never keep. Democrats need a hopeful but realistic message
recognizing that while most big cities prosper in today's globalized economy,
much of the rest of the country suffers.

Democrats will win when theirs is the "big tent" party. Right now, though, the
GOP circus is in town.

Eugene Robinson's email address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             119 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Groups to hold anti-hate rally at Massachusetts Statehouse

BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 142 words


BOSTON (AP) -- More than 30 groups are planning a rally at the Massachusetts
Statehouse to denounce hate incidents reported around the country after the
election.

Officials with the Anti-Defamation League say the rally is scheduled for 11 a.m.
Monday and will feature government officials including state Attorney General
Maura Healey and Boston Mayor Marty Walsh, both Democrats.

Organizers say the event's message will be that no matter who people supported
in the presidential election, hate crimes are not acceptable and do not
represent the whole city, state or country.

There have been reports of racist and anti-religious incidents around the
country since the Nov. 8 election.

Other groups taking part in the rally include the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People and the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             120 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Election stirs emotions, fears on campus

BYLINE: By Grant Welker, gwelker@lowellsun.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 972 words


After a presidential election unlike any other, many people are reacting to the
results like they never quite have before.

Some school leaders have taken the unprecedented step of having to calm fears of
students who are so tense from an election that elevated Donald J. Trump to the
White House.

At Fitchburg State University, President Richard Lapidus sent a message to the
campus community saying the university "remains committed to being a welcoming
community to all."

Fitchburg spokesman Matthew Bruun said the university met with several students
who expressed concern about the election in the days afterward, but that the
volume has slowed since then.

At UMass Lowell, Chancellor Jacqueline Moloney and the school's Office of
Multicultural Affairs staff both sent messages to the campus community after the
election.

"These are unprecedented times," UMass Lowell's multicultural affairs office
said in an email signed by Director Leslie Wong and others. "This is a critical
time to make sure that you, your friends, classmates, neighbors are doing OK and
seeking the appropriate support, especially if they need a place to process or
work through what they're feeling."

The office held what it called a "post-election self-care session" the day after
the election, with stress-reduction techniques.

Moloney wrote to the university community saying she wanted to "acknowledge the
uncertainty and fear that many in our community are feeling."

"I want you to know," the chancellor said, "that our commitment to justice,
respect for one another and, above all, your safety has not wavered."

She added: "To our students, faculty and staff, I promise you this: You are
welcome here. Your voice matters. You matter."

Moloney included information for how to contact the university's Wellness
Center, police and other offices.

Neither message mentioned the candidates specifically, much less the campaign
pledges Trump made, including that he would deport undocumented immigrants and
halt Muslims looking to enter the country. The college said the messages were
planned before the election and not the result of the election results or any
specific incident.

"I just wanted to acknowledge obviously some people were concerned after the
election, that the university would continue to do what we're doing," Moloney
said in an interview. "Either way, the election has been very divisive."

Trump's election has sparked protests across the nation, with some students
walking out of high school or college classes and taking to the streets.

Clearly, the election has brought out tension among supporters of both Hillary
Clinton and Trump, and those who weren't enamored with either candidate.
Sentinel & Enterprise solicited through its Facebook page comments from college
students who felt fearful or threatened because of the election results. No such
students came forward.

But the Sentinel & Enterprise received a flood of comments, many from apparent
Trump supporters, criticizing students for not being tougher -- and the
newspaper for giving those people a voice.

It's no surprise that many people feel tense, or that there appears to be wider
divide than ever among voters.

A Pew poll several weeks before the election found that four-fifths of
respondents said that most Clinton and Trump supporters didn't just disagree
over policies but also on "basic facts."

Most also weren't thrilled with their choices for president. A poll this summer
by ABC News and the Washington Post found 58 percent of voters to be unhappy
with the Clinton-Trump match-up.

In September, another Pew poll found that most Republicans planned to vote for
Trump more out of opposition to Clinton than in support for their own party's
nominee. Clinton herself barely surpassed Trump among Democrats asked whether
their vote was more for her versus against him.

Political leanings aside, the election results have hit a nerve with an unusual
number of Americans. Psychology Today posted on its website about dealing with
"post-election blues." Calls to crisis-support hotlines reportedly spiked as the
presidential results came in.

Incidents of hate crimes, particularly aimed at Muslims, and other minorities
have been on the rise this year.

Since Nov. 8, the Southern Poverty Law Center has begun soliciting hate-crime
incidents related to the election. The NAACP on Tuesday issued a statement
saying the election has "emboldened white supremacists across the country."

There have also been election-related incidents across the country since the
election. Last week, two Babson College students drove through Wellesley College
-- Clinton's alma mater -- waving a Trump flag and being "disruptive," the
college said.

Some other colleges have also taken steps to help students deal with the
election results.

At Middlesex Community College, Rebecca Newell, the assistant dean of students,
said the school was committed to encouraging respectful discussion about the
election and how people are affected. Newell distributed safety pins that some
are wearing as signs of solidarity, and the college set up a white board in the
Bedford campus center to allow people to leave their thoughts.

"People are definitely talking," she said.

Newell sent a message to students the day before the election, saying that
regardless of the outcome, "you may also be feeling anxious about how it will
impact you."

"While we may be living in a time of uncertainty and amidst constant change, we
will work together in a climate of civility and respect," she added.

UMass President Marty Meehan office sent out a statement this week, reaffirming
the university system's "commitment to diversity and inclusion."

"We have seen many reports of increased incidents of hate, harassment and
intimidation across the nation over the past week," Meehan said.

Follow Grant Welker on Twitter and Tout @SunGrantWelker.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lapidus Sentinel and Enterprise staff photos can be ordered by visiting
our SmugMug site.
Lapidus Sentinel and Enterprise staff photos can be ordered by visiting our
SmugMug site.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             121 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Officials join crowd at Boston anti-hate rally

BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 776 words


By Katie Lannan

State House News Service

BOSTON -- On the steps of the Statehouse on Monday, before a large crowd on
Beacon Street, Harvard Law student Harmann Singh told a crowd that he was
"aggressively accosted" in a store in Cambridge last week, followed around and
screamed at by a man who thought he was Muslim.

Singh, who is a Sikh, said he shared that story to show that intolerance can
happen anywhere and that many Americans have felt unsafe in the days since the
Nov. 8 presidential election won by Republican Donald Trump, who defeated
Democrat Hillary Clinton following a campaign marked by division and heated
rhetoric.

"The movement against such hate transcends political and personal identities,"
Singh said during a rally attended by several of the state's top political
figures. "We must stand up against it collectively, no matter where or when it
occurs."

The rally was held by the Anti-Defamation League and a coalition of 30 local
groups in response to what the organizers described as "an alarming number of
hate- and bias-fueled incidents across the country and in Massachusetts."

Elected officials who spoke at the event called on ralliers to protect their
neighbors, oppose hatred and remain involved in the political process, while
pledging that state government would work to protect Massachusetts residents.

Attorney General Maura Healey said a hotline her office established for
residents to report bias-motivated harassment and hate crimes has received
nearly 400 calls since its launch a week ago.

Healey said that in the past two weeks, a Puerto Rican couple in West
Springfield found the words "go home" keyed into their car, Ku Klux Klan
newspapers were delivered to homes in Milford, and racist graffiti was found in
an Attleboro High School bathroom.

Though few speakers referred to President-elect Trump by name, Healey and state
Treasurer Deb Goldberg both criticized his recent Cabinet appointees, which
Healey called "really disturbing."

The crowd booed as Goldberg named some of the appointees -- Republican National
Committee Chairman Reince Priebus, U.S. Sen. Jeff Sessions and Steve Bannon, who
headed Trump's campaign.

"We cannot afford to wait and see," Goldberg said of the Trump administration,
going on to reference a warning by Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel to "never be
fooled."

"I'm not accusing anyone in particular of being an anti-Semite or being
anti-everyone, but I am accusing them of nurturing, mentoring, taking advantage
of and feeding the underbelly of the animal for their own interests," Goldberg
said.

Gov. Charlie Baker, a Republican who was critical of Trump during the
presidential race, said last week there was "way too much prejudging going on"
as Trump announced early Cabinet picks, and that he would follow President
Barack Obama's lead in waiting to judge the Trump administration "by the
totality of its appointments."

Baker did not attend Monday's rally, which organizers attributed to a scheduling
conflict, but sent a letter expressing his support.

"Our strength as a community lies in Massachusetts' diversity and openness to
the world. The commonwealth has been and always will be a welcoming state,"
stated the letter, which was read at the event by Anti-Defamation League Robert
Trestan, the Anti-Defamation League's regional director.

Though all the elected officials who attended the rally were Democrats, Boston
Mayor Martin Walsh urged a bipartisan approach and called on attendees to seek
out common ground.

"We should be tolerant of many different views," Walsh said. "We should respect
the democratic process, but we will not remain neutral when hate rears its ugly
head."

House Speaker Robert DeLeo said it's the duty of state government to "protect
all of our residents, no matter what is going on in Washington," and said that
while members of the House may disagree on policy matters, "we are united in
opposing hatred and opposing intolerance."

Senate President Stan Rosenberg read a statement that he said reflects "the
sentiments of all 40 members of the Massachusetts Senate."

"To those who feel threatened by recent events, be assured that our belief
remains steadfast: Everyone is entitled to the same rights and protections, and
we will stand by your side to uphold the law," the statement said.

Other elected officials who attended included Reps. Lori Ehrlich, Jonathan
Hecht, David Linsky, Daniel Cullinane, Byron Rushing and Daniel Ryan; Sens.
Karen Spilka, Thomas McGee, Cynthia Creem and Linda Dorcena Forry; Sen.-elect
Julian Cyr; Suffolk County Sheriff Steven Tompkins; Suffolk District Attorney
Daniel Conley; and Boston City Councilors Josh Zakim and Matt O'Malley.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             122 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Some election losers Green with Trump envy

BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 428 words


And we thought Donald Trump might not accept the presidential results. Funny how
the tables have turned, now that progressives are faced with this unanticipated
outcome.

We'll give credit to Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party establishment.
They've urged supporters to accept Trump's electoral-vote victory, even though
her lead in the popular vote continues to grow, now approaching 2 million.

But certain parties just won't let go, like Green Party candidate Jill Stein.
The Lexington resident, whose candidacy probably helped derail Clinton's, now
has mounted a recount crusade in the three key states that barely broke for the
Republican president-elect -- Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

Trump eked out his closest margin of victory in Michigan. On Wednesday the
secretary of state there officially accepted the certified recount results from
all its counties, which gave Trump an adjusted 10,704-vote margin of victory.

However, Stein targeted Wisconsin for the initial recount challenge. She managed
to quickly raise nearly $5 million for that effort -- far more than she could
ever attract to her own campaign. Stein beat the Friday recount deadline.

Supposedly Stein was moved to act due to alleged reports of internet hacking
into the results in those three states, claims that have since been discounted
or dismissed, even by the New York Times.

Undeterred, Stein apparently intends -- fundraising permitting -- to purse
recounts in all three states.

For the record, Trump enjoys about a 27,000-vote margin in Wisconsin and a
nearly 70,000-vote cushion in Pennsylvania.

Without Michigan's 16 electoral votes, Trump still totals 290 -- 20 more than he
needs.

And, of course, we have other progressive wingnuts pressuring Republican
electors to switch their allegiance to Clinton when they officially meet in
December to select the vice president and president.

By tradition, electors are pledged to the candidate that won that particular
state. According to a U.S. House of Representatives' website, defections almost
never occur -- and no more than one in any election.

Even in the hotly "hanging chad" 2000 presidential election, when it took the
Supreme Court to finally declare George W. Bush the winner over Al Gore,
electors voted the party line, except for one who submitted a blank ballot.

It's time for Jill Stein to put her conspiracy theories aside and join the
overwhelming majority in this country, which seek to turn the page and move on
with the seamless transition of presidential succession.

Our nation deserves precedence over political agendas.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             123 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Debate renewed over fairness of Electoral College system

BYLINE: By Bob Katzen

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 1250 words


THE HOUSE AND SENATE: There were no roll calls in the House or Senate last week.

A big topic of discussion last week in the Bay State, and across the nation, was
whether the president of the United States should be elected by popular vote or
through the current Electoral College system. Last week, U.S. Rep. Charlie
Rangel, D-N.Y., and U.S. Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., proposed constitutional
amendments in Congress that would abolish the Electoral College.

The president and vice president are not actually elected directly by the
voters, but rather by "electors" who are elected by popular vote from each
state. There are 538 electors, with each state assigned electoral votes equal to
the number of its members of Congress. The 538 electors correspond to the 435
representatives and 100 senators, plus three electors for the District of
Columbia. Electors are chosen by political parties and pledge to vote for the
winner of the state's popular vote. The candidate who wins 270 or more electoral
votes wins the presidency.

Current results from this year give Donald Trump 290 electoral votes and Hillary
Clinton 232. Michigan has not yet completed its tally, so it is not certain
where those 16 electoral votes will go. In the popular vote, although official
results have not been announced, Clinton appears to be ahead of Trump by
anywhere from 1.5 million to 2.5 million votes.

One key roadblock to abolishing the Electoral College is that it would require a
constitutional amendment, proposed either by two-thirds of each house of
Congress or by a constitutional convention that would be called if 34 states
request it. In both cases, the proposed amendment would then have to be ratified
by 38 states to become part of the Constitution. Both avenues are difficult, at
best.

Along comes Fair Vote, a group with the goal of electing the president by
popular vote without abolishing the Electoral College but rather by creation of
an unusual pact between the states.

The Bay State in 2010 joined this pact, called the "Agreement among the States
to Elect the President by National Popular Vote." It would require states that
join the pact to cast all of their electoral votes for the presidential
candidate who wins a majority of the national popular vote in all 50 states and
the District of Columbia. The pact would become effective when states
representing at least 270 electoral votes -- a majority of the 538-vote
Electoral College -- join the pact. It is an attempted end-run around the
Constitution.

The House (114-35) and Senate (28-9) approved the measure in July 2010 and it
was signed into law in August 2010 by former Gov. Deval Patrick.

Every four years, there is talk nationally about abolishing the Electoral
College and electing the president based on a national popular vote. The talk
intensifies each time a candidate who wins the popular vote loses the election.
This has occurred five times -- the most two recent being this year and in 2000,
when Al Gore won 543,895 more popular votes than George W. Bush but was beaten
by Bush in the Electoral College by a razor thin 271-266 margin. It was the
recount in Florida, in which Bush beat Gore by 537 votes, that decided the race.
The three other races in which this occurred were in 1824, 1876 and 1888.

Supporters of the pact say the law will pass constitutional muster because the
U.S. Constitution gives the states exclusive and complete power to determine how
to allocate their electoral votes. Opponents argue that the Compact Clause of
the Constitution requires congressional approval of the pact before it could
take effect. The pact would likely be challenged in the courts if and when it
has enough states to guarantee 270 electoral votes to the winner of the popular
vote.

According to Fair Vote's website, the pact has been signed into law in the
District of Columbia and 10 states possessing 165 electoral votes -- 61 percent
of the 270 electoral votes needed to activate the legislation. States include
California, Hawaii, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York.
Rhode Island, Washington and Vermont. The approval of additional states with a
total of 105 more electoral votes is needed before the measure goes into effect.

Supporters say the Electoral College is an antiquated system that is inherently
undemocratic and gives voters in states with large numbers of electoral votes
more voting power than those in other states. They argue the system was designed
by the framers because they did not trust the common citizen to vote correctly
and wanted a fail-safe method to overturn the voters. They note that
presidential candidates now concentrate on and campaign in a handful of swing
states while ignoring most of the states that are already solidly Democratic or
Republican.

State Rep. David Linsky, D-Natick, supports the law because he believes every
vote in every state should be equal.

"The principle is simple: the vote of every person should count the same," he
said. "By eliminating the arcane Electoral College system, we can achieve a more
fair and functioning democracy."

Some opponents say that the Electoral College is a good system that has worked
well and should not be changed. They argue it gives voters in smaller states
power that they would not have if the president was elected strictly by a
popular vote system in which candidates would concentrate on states with larger
populations.

Some argue that electing the president by popular vote would give wealthy and
fringe candidates a chance at success by focusing their efforts in a few major
urban centers. Others said that the switch to a popular vote is a very serious
issue that needs more study. Others argue that the Constitution provides no
guidance on the ground rules for a convention which could cause all kinds of
problems. They also say that a convention would not necessarily be limited to
the Electoral College amendment and note that many amendments on several other
topics could be considered.

"I voted against the National Popular Vote compact in 2010 because it represents
an end-run around the Constitution," said state Rep. Brad Jones, R-North
Reading. "The Electoral College was created to ensure that presidential
candidates have true, broad-based, national appeal among voters of various
socioeconomic backgrounds, living in both urban and rural areas. Under the
compact, the 11 most populous states could single-handedly decide the outcome of
a national election, depriving smaller states of a role in the process."

Stay tuned.

ELECT PRESIDENT BY POPULAR VOTE

Here is how local senators and representatives voted in 2010 on whether
Massachusetts should join the Agreement among the States to Elect the President
by National Popular Vote.

The pact was approved by the House 114-35 and the Senate 28-9. It was signed
into law by former Gov. Deval Patrick.

(A "Yes" vote is for joining. A "No" vote is against joining.)

YES: Reps. Jennifer Benson, D-Lunenburg; Anne Gobi, D-Spencer; Harold Naughton,
D-Clinton; Dennis Rosa, D-Leominster; and Sen. James Eldridge, D-Acton

DIDN'T VOTE: Sen. Jennifer Flanagan, D-Leominster

WAS NOT YET ELECTED: Reps. Kimberly Ferguson, D-Holden; Sheila Harrington,
D-Groton; and Stephan Hay, D-Fitchburg; and Jonathan Zlotnik, D-Gardner

HOW LONG WAS LAST WEEK'S SESSION? During the week of Nov. 21-25, the House met
for a total of 32 minutes while the Senate met for a total of 34 minutes.

Bob Katzen welcomes feedback at bob@beaconhillrollcall.com © 2016 Beacon Hill
Roll Call. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             124 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

EDITORIAL: 3.4 million reasons to feel good today

BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 369 words


Congratulations, Massachusetts voters. On Election Day, you set a record for
turnout. Secretary of State Bill Galvin said Monday that a little more than 3.4
million votes were cast Nov. 8, about 220,000 more votes than were cast in the
previous record year of 2012.

Overall, 75 percent of the state's registered voters turned out. Several local
communities surpassed the statewide turnout, including Ashby (84 percent),
Westminster (83 percent), Lunenburg (82 percent) and Ashburnham (78 percent).

Galvin also reported that as a group you did, as the Chicago-born quip suggests,
"vote early and often" -- although nefarious deeds at the polls had nothing to
do with it. The state's inaugural year of early voting was a big hit, with 1
million voters -- more than 30 percent -- casting their ballots before Election
Day.

Of course, the contest for Massachusetts' 11 electoral votes was not the
nail-biter it was in such swing states as Ohio, Pennsylvania, Florida, New
Hampshire and Michigan. As expected, Democrats Hillary Clinton, with nearly 2
million votes, handily defeated Republican Donald Trump, who has 1.1 million
votes, in the Bay State.

About 77,000 voters statewide took a pass on the presidential election
altogether, WBUR reported. That's up from 16,000 who blanked the Barack
Obama-Mitt Romney race four years ago, indicating a stronger displeasure among
voters with both Clinton and Trump.

The good news there is that while no one running for president could win these
voters' support, that did not discourage them from going to the polls to vote on
the questions and in down-ballot races -- for Congress and the state
Legislature. In some cases, the people elected to those offices can have a
bigger impact on the lives of local residents than the president.

We are encourage by the success of early voting. Anything that makes it easier
for registered voters to get to the polls is a good thing.

Pat yourself on the back, voters.

While we'd like to see turnout improve in nonpresidential years and in municipal
elections, you showed up in droves for this election and let your voice be
heard. Whether you like the results or not, you can still take pride in
participating in a record-breaking Election Day.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             125 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Democratic Party is in shambles because it abandoned white males

BYLINE: Sentinel & Enterprise

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 491 words


This November election has left the Democratic Party in disarray, turmoil and on
the verge of being relegated to a second-tier American political party. In an
electric year that most media and political pundits predicted solid gains for
the Democratic Party, the results were both staggering and irrefutable.

The Republican Party now dominates state legislatures not seen since the Civil
War. Republicans control 68 state legislative chambers compared to 31 for
Democrats. Not since 1929 have Republicans controlled governorships in 33 states
vs. 16 states represented by Democrats (Alaska-Independent). Since 2010, the
Democrats have lost 70 congressional seats, and more than 900 state legislative
seats. After this presidential election, the GOP now controls the presidency,
U.S. Senate, U.S. House of Representatives and, soon, the U.S. Supreme Court.

Democratic strategists, political pundits and radio talk- show hosts keep
debating the reason. The answer is simple: The Democratic Party, in its quest to
recruit additional constituencies from women, gays, Latinos, youth, minorities,
transgender and every other racial, ethnic and religious group, has absolutely
and unequivocally abandoned the white, working-class male. Not only have the
Democrats abandoned their core constituency, but in many cases ridicules and
mocks their love of God, country, guns and social significance.

The Democratic Party should be a diverse and inclusive political party, but not
at the cost of disavowing its single largest constituency and voting bloc.
Matter of fact, the white, working male needs help and assistance at an
unprecedented level. An article by Angus Deaton, Princeton Economist and 2015
Nobel Memorial Prize recipient in economics, wrote that white, middle-aged
working men are in peril and crisis with health and mortality. An epidemic of
suicides and afflictions stemming from substance abuse, alcoholism, liver
disease and overdoses of heroin and prescription opioids have caused death rates
for white middle-aged men to spike higher than any other racial or ethnic group.
In addition, this same group is facing unprecedented economic hardships from
wage stagflation, job insecurity, diminishing manufacturing, mounting debt,
health and housing costs, and inability to adequately prepare and save for
retirement.

The Democratic Party has done little to entice or embrace this valuable segment
of the U.S. economy and electorate. President-elect Trump was both smart and
courageous to reach out and court this large and proud segment of the
population, and they rewarded him with an unprecedented electoral victory. The
fact that Democrats are considering going further to the left is both political
madness and suicide.

As every successful Democrat from Harry Truman to Bill Clinton knew, go to the
center and unabashedly court a constituency that made this party and nation
great!

GUY W. GLODIS

Democratic State Committeeman

2nd Worcester District

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             126 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

President-elect should reconsider Bannon's role

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 606 words


With the appointments of Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus
as White House chief of staff and Trump campaign CEO Stephen Bannon as chief
strategist and senior counselor, the president-elect is keeping voters guessing
about which Donald Trump will be running the White House - the deal-making real
estate entrepreneur or the flame-throwing Twitter virtuoso.

Priebus is the Wisconsin-vanilla establishment Republican who published the 2013
autopsy of Mitt Romney's presidential campaign calling for GOP outreach to all
the people Trump insulted and abused throughout 2016. Bannon joined Trump
straight from running Breitbart.com - the slavishly pro-Trump website favored by
the white nationalists, xenophobes and anti-Semites known as the alt-right.

Thus, within days of his surprise victory, Trump managed to both guarantee
strife within his White House and aggravate the bitter national cultural divide
he has tried to calm since he built an election victory by widening it.

Bannon, a former Goldman Sachs banker and Sarah Palin confidant, is a politics
and media daredevil who reshaped Breitbart.com from the home of politically
incorrect bomb throwers across the conservative movement into something rigid
and dark. When a Breitbart reporter was allegedly assaulted by a Trump campaign
staffer, Bannon loyally threw the reporter overboard rather than be critical of
Trump.

That loyalty paid off with hundreds of millions of page views. So did its
provocations. Breitbart referred to conservative strategist and publisher Bill
Kristol as a "renegade Jew." It has asked whether you'd prefer your daughter to
be a feminist or have cancer, and it has said birth control makes women
unattractive and crazy. In August, when Trump hired Bannon, former Ku Klux Klan
leader David Duke agreed with a white nationalist radio host that their movement
had largely "taken over" the GOP. Now the alt-right friendly site is positioned
to be the house organ of the Trump administration.

At the other end of the spectrum, Priebus is a behind-the-scenes party
functionary who built Wisconsin's Republican Party into a battle-tested machine.
He is also House Speaker Paul Ryan's pal, a critical connection for the success
of President Trump's agenda. That's a bridge Bannon would be happy to burn, all
but shouting "off with his head" when it comes to Ryan keeping his job.

But that didn't seem to faze the speaker when CNN's Jake Tapper asked him about
Bannon. "I have no concerns. ... I trust Donald's judgment," Ryan said. Ryan and
Trump should think again.

The Bannon appointment is salt in the wound for the African Americans, Latinos,
Muslims, Jews and other Americans who were Trump's campaign punching bags and
still feel wounded and bewildered as Trump transitions from campaigning to
governing. As President Obama said Monday, there are big differences between
building a government and seeking votes.

The dueling approaches of Priebus and Bannon might have worked on the campaign
trail by telling different stories to different voters, but are likely to become
a problem when the Trump White House makes tough calls and needs to speak with
one voice. Should Trump's bipolar approach to appointments continue in other
personnel decisions, Trump could undermine his own presidency.

Regardless of whether the staffing moves turn into a management nightmare,
Bannon's presidential appointment recasts Trump's post-election efforts at
uniting Americans as window dressing. If Trump is serious about being a
president for all Americans, he should reconsider whether an avatar of the
alt-right belongs in the West Wing.

- USA TODAY editorial

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             127 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Palmyra parents ask Duquette to resign

BYLINE: By, Merriell Moyer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 631 words


Palmyra school board member Ralph Duquette was asked to step down from the board
by parents concerned about inflammatory comments he made on social media, mostly
regarding politics.

Kris Keck and Cynthia Lyons, both parents in the school district and coaches on
the Palmyra swim team, first went public with concerns at the board's voting
meeting Nov. 10. Other parents voiced their concerns Thursday.

"As a member of the school board your role is to represent and look out for the
best interest of the student, faculty and community members of this district,"
Antounette "Toni" Shughart, a concerned parent, said. "The people here tonight
are not upset with your choice of presidential candidate as your tweets imply,
but we are disturbed with your language and intimidation tactics used on social
media."

A few members of the audience pointed to Duquette's right to free speech under
the First Amendment.

"Yes there is freedom of speech in our country, but as an elected official it is
your responsibility, while serving the community and the students of this
district, to maintain an ethical, positive role," Shughart said.

Other parents echoed Shughart's comments, and the group asked Duquette to step
down from his position.

Parents were concerned about Duquette tweeting profanities and their children
seeing them online.

"You cannot name a single kid that I follow on Twitter," Duquette said.

A teenage boy tweeted at Duquette during the school day, and he admitted that he
responded.

"Your son sending me a tweet during the school day I found problematic, and yes
I told him he should put down the phone and get back to class," Duquette said.
"I told your kid to get back to school because I believe that is where he should
be - he should paying attention in class."

Duquette's Twitter account is not connected to the school district, nor to the
Palmyra area, he said.

Duquette did not resign, and Christopher Connell, the board president, announced
to the audience that the board had no way of reprimanding or removing Duquette
from the board as some had asked the board to do.

Earlier in the meeting, Duquette announced that he had filed a Title IX
complaint with the Pennsylvania Board of Education's Office of Civil Rights
(OCR), and he felt that may have played a role in his social media habits
becoming a topic.

"I can't discount this as retaliation," he said. "But I do realize that, as a
Democrat, I snuck onto the school board three years ago. I have questioned them.
I have challenged them. I have annoyed them."

Duquette told the board in June that he had contacted the OCR regarding Title IX
deficiencies in the school district, but he didn't move forward with a complaint
until September he said.

Title IX protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs
or activities that receive federal financial assistance. Some key areas that
Title IX covers include recruitment, admissions and counseling; financial
assistance; athletics; sex-based harassment; treatment of pregnant and parenting
students; discipline; single-sex education; and employment, according to the
U.S. Department of Education website.

"I'm not asking for any personal identifying information of students involved in
sexual assault case, or anything like that," Duquette said in an interview
before the board meeting. "What I want the district to do - are they doing the
things that they are supposed to do."

He pointed at deficiencies in the school district's Title IX compliance with
regard to some basic information being made available to the public such as the
name and contact information of the Title IX coordinator, which are currently
left blank on the school's official documents.

However the school district website does have that information available under a
topic list of who to call.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             128 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Bruce's History Lessons: The Trump Election and History

BYLINE: By, Bruce Kauffmann

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 476 words


Good or bad, however you feel about Donald Trump's election, it is nothing new
in history.

Indeed, despite claims that Trump's election is the biggest upset ever, Harry
Truman's election in 1948 was a far bigger upset. Truman was such an underdog
that pollsters stopped polling weeks before the election, convinced that the
Republican Thomas Dewey would defeat the Democrat Truman in a landslide. The
pro-Dewey Chicago Daily Tribune even published its election issue with the
headline "Dewey Defeats Truman" before the returns were in (and the next day the
easily re-elected Truman gleefully displayed that issue for all to see).

That said, the Trump-Truman comparison is instructive because both men were
controversial, and to those worried that Trump will exceed his presidential
powers, Truman often exceeded his. On several occasions he took control of
entire industries, including settling a nationwide steelworkers strike by
unilaterally seizing the nation's steel mills. In the 1946 mid-term elections,
the Democratic Party lost both branches of Congress, for which the unpopular
Truman was largely blamed.

Granted, on balance Truman was a first-rate president, but that didn't stop
millions of Americans from seeing his election in 1948 as the ruination of the
country, just as today millions think the same of Trump.

The Founding Fathers anticipated all of this. In the Federalist Papers written
to explain the Constitution, James Madison wrote that presidential candidates
would not always be "enlightened statesmen," which is why the Founders created a
government in which the power of each branch of the government, including the
executive branch, would be checked and balanced by the power of the other
branches.

Further, there is the ultimate sovereign power of the people themselves, who
ultimately decide who will serve in our government. In 1946, the people gave
Republicans a majority in the legislative branch partly because they disapproved
of the policies of the Democrat who headed up the executive branch. In two
midterm elections, 2010 and 2014, they did the same to President Obama. If
Donald Trump pursues unpopular policies unchecked by his Republican Congress,
he, and the Republican Congress, will also face the voters' displeasure.

As well as face the displeasure of the judicial branch, which the Founders
specifically created to check unconstitutional violations of the people's rights
by the legislative and executive branches. The Supreme Court eventually ruled
that Truman's nationalizing the steel mills was an unconstitutional overreach,
and they will keep a watchful eye on Trump as well.

"If angels were to govern men, neither external nor internal controls on
government would be necessary," Madison wrote. But since we are governed by
imperfect humans, including all of our presidents, such controls are necessarily
in place.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             129 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Lebanon school board borrows $9.9M

BYLINE: By, John Latimer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 525 words


The Lebanon school board Monday night pulled the trigger on issuing a nearly $10
million tax-exempt bond to help pay for a new Northwest Elementary School,
rather than gamble that interest rates may drop in the coming months.

The board unanimously agreed to accept a bond offer from PNC Capital Markets
that was received earlier in the day during an Internet auction that attracted
bids from four financial institutions.

The district's financial consultant, Brad Remig, of PFM Group, said he worked
hard marketing the bond and was pleased that four firms were interested. The
district benefited from having an A bond rating from Standard & Poors, he added.

With an average interest rate of 3.54 percent over 20 years, PNC's offer was the
best offer.

"PNC, we were working them this morning pretty hard, and they were the ones that
came in with the best bid," Remig said.

Timing the financing of the $9.9 million bond was complicated by the outcome of
the presidential election, which has caused turmoil in the financial markets,
Remig told the board. In the two weeks since Republican Donald Trump was
elected, interest rates have risen by about half a percentage point, he said.

"As you probably are very aware, since the election on Nov. 8, the markets have
really been kind of chaotic in terms of what's been going on," he said. "The
market really doesn't know what to make of the new administration coming in."

Typically interest rates drop in January, Remig said, but other uncertainties on
the horizon, including the Federal Reserve potentially increasing interest rates
when it meets next month, convinced him to recommend that the board accept PCN's
offer. And even though the interest rates have risen, he added, the cost of the
borrowing was less than was projected a year ago, when planning for the bond
began

"So we thought it would be prudent to take the bid today and lock in the rate
today because we don't want to see this thing get away from us as we get into
the new year," Remig said.

The money should be the only borrowing the district needs for construction of
the new $25 million elementary school to replace the aging Northwest Elementary
School at Ninth and Maple streets. The rest will be paid for with reserve funds
the district has been saving for in recent years to avoid millions of dollars in
borrowing costs.

Work on the new school in the Aspens Business Park, about a half a mile west of
the current school, has already begun, and a move in date of August 2018 is
anticipated.

In other financial business, the school district received a clean audit report
for the 2015-16 school year from Barbacane, Thornton & Co.

"I am pleased to say that we issued an unmodified report on your financial
statements, also known as a clean report, a clean opinion," said CPA Jeff
Kowalczyk. "And that means we found your financial statement to be materially
accurate. As auditors, that is the highest level of assurance that we are able
to give about financial statements."

The school board will meet for the final time in 2016 at its annual
re-organizational meeting on Dec. 5 at 7 p.m. in the board room at Lebanon High
School, 1000 S. Eighth St.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             130 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

The Catholic Factor in 2016

BYLINE: By, guest columnist

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 532 words


Before 2016, we have only had seven Catholic vice-presidential candidates in
American history: William Miller (1964), Ed Muskie (1968), Thomas Eagleton
(1972), Sargent Shriver (Eagleton's replacement, 1972), Geraldine Ferraro
(1984), Paul Ryan (2012), and our current vice president, Joe Biden (2008,
2012). This means that in January, Mike Pence will become just the second
Catholic vice president we have ever had - or "Evangelical-Catholic" as he calls
himself. And there has been only one Catholic president: John F. Kennedy.

Despite this slight presence in nationwide office, the Catholic vote is one of
the key bellwethers that determines who will win the presidency. For generations
now, since the 1950s in fact, whoever has won the Catholic vote has generally
won the Oval Office. In 2004, Bush won 52 percent of the Catholic vote to
Kerry's 47 percent. In 2008, Obama won 54 percent to McCain's 45 percent. And in
2012, Obama won 50 percent to Romney's 48 percent. The only recent election
where the winner of the Catholic vote did not take the presidency was in 2000,
when Gore won the Catholic vote by 50 percent to 47 percent, though of course
that election was fraught with scandal, meaning that the Catholic vote may still
have accurately determined the rightful president.

So, what effect did the Catholic vote have in 2016?

CNN's exit polls show that Trump/Pence took the Catholic vote by 52 percent to
45 percent. Given the large numbers of Catholics in swing states such as
Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin - all states that Trump won
- winning the Catholic vote by a notable margin certainly helped him achieve
victory overall.

Clinton made the smart move of putting Tim Kaine on the ticket, and it seemed to
have worked, with polls several weeks ahead of the election showing her well
ahead among this demographic, but leaked emails from her campaign insulting
Catholic voters turned many against her. This scandal went largely unnoticed in
the mainstream media, but Catholic news outlets and social media groups
discussed it at length. And Pence's Catholic background likely offset Kaine's
pull for Catholic voters. Additionally, never before have pre-Election Day polls
been so far off, and polls of Catholic voters were no exception.

More generally speaking, what makes the Catholic vote so interesting and so
central in determining the presidency is that Catholic beliefs do not neatly fit
into the platform of either major party. On issues such as abortion and birth
control, Catholic teaching is at odds with the Democratic Party, but on issues
of social justice such as the death penalty and poverty relief, it is at odds
with the Republican Party. This means that Catholic voters are more likely to
switch which party they support from election to election, or even race to race
within a given year, than other demographics are. They are therefore that most
prized commodity in the electoral economy - the swayable swing vote.

Future presidential candidates would do well to focus large sums of cash and
energy on courting this key voting bloc.

Okla Elliott, Ph.D., is an assistant professor at Misericordia University in
Dallas, Pa.

Okla Elliott, Ph.D.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             131 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Lebanon school board borrows $9.9M

BYLINE: By, John Latimer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 525 words


The Lebanon school board Monday night pulled the trigger on issuing a nearly $10
million tax-exempt bond to help pay for a new Northwest Elementary School,
rather than gamble that interest rates may drop in the coming months.

The board unanimously agreed to accept a bond offer from PNC Capital Markets
that was received earlier in the day during an Internet auction that attracted
bids from four financial institutions.

The district's financial consultant, Brad Remig, of PFM Group, said he worked
hard marketing the bond and was pleased that four firms were interested. The
district benefited from having an A bond rating from Standard & Poors, he added.

With an average interest rate of 3.54 percent over 20 years, PNC's offer was the
best offer.

"PNC, we were working them this morning pretty hard, and they were the ones that
came in with the best bid," Remig said.

Timing the financing of the $9.9 million bond was complicated by the outcome of
the presidential election, which has caused turmoil in the financial markets,
Remig told the board. In the two weeks since Republican Donald Trump was
elected, interest rates have risen by about half a percentage point, he said.

"As you probably are very aware, since the election on Nov. 8, the markets have
really been kind of chaotic in terms of what's been going on," he said. "The
market really doesn't know what to make of the new administration coming in."

Typically interest rates drop in January, Remig said, but other uncertainties on
the horizon, including the Federal Reserve potentially increasing interest rates
when it meets next month, convinced him to recommend that the board accept PCN's
offer. And even though the interest rates have risen, he added, the cost of the
borrowing was less than was projected a year ago, when planning for the bond
began

"So we thought it would be prudent to take the bid today and lock in the rate
today because we don't want to see this thing get away from us as we get into
the new year," Remig said.

The money should be the only borrowing the district needs for construction of
the new $25 million elementary school to replace the aging Northwest Elementary
School at Ninth and Maple streets. The rest will be paid for with reserve funds
the district has been saving for in recent years to avoid millions of dollars in
borrowing costs.

Work on the new school in the Aspens Business Park, about a half a mile west of
the current school, has already begun, and a move in date of August 2018 is
anticipated.

In other financial business, the school district received a clean audit report
for the 2015-16 school year from Barbacane, Thornton & Co.

"I am pleased to say that we issued an unmodified report on your financial
statements, also known as a clean report, a clean opinion," said CPA Jeff
Kowalczyk. "And that means we found your financial statement to be materially
accurate. As auditors, that is the highest level of assurance that we are able
to give about financial statements."

The school board will meet for the final time in 2016 at its annual
re-organizational meeting on Dec. 5 at 7 p.m. in the board room at Lebanon High
School, 1000 S. Eighth St.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             132 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Lebanon school board borrows $9.9M

BYLINE: By, John Latimer

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 524 words


The Lebanon school board last week pulled the trigger on issuing a nearly $10
million tax-exempt bond to help pay for a new Northwest Elementary School,
rather than gamble that interest rates may drop in the coming months.

The board unanimously agreed to accept a bond offer from PNC Capital Markets
that was received earlier in the day during an Internet auction that attracted
bids from four financial institutions.

The district's financial consultant, Brad Remig, of PFM Group, said he worked
hard marketing the bond and was pleased that four firms were interested. The
district benefited from having an A bond rating from Standard & Poors, he added.

With an average interest rate of 3.54 percent over 20 years, PNC's offer was the
best offer.

"PNC, we were working them this morning pretty hard, and they were the ones that
came in with the best bid," Remig said.

Timing the financing of the $9.9 million bond was complicated by the outcome of
the presidential election, which has caused turmoil in the financial markets,
Remig told the board. In the two weeks since Republican Donald Trump was
elected, interest rates have risen by about half a percentage point, he said.

"As you probably are very aware, since the election on Nov. 8, the markets have
really been kind of chaotic in terms of what's been going on," he said. "The
market really doesn't know what to make of the new administration coming in."

Typically interest rates drop in January, Remig said, but other uncertainties on
the horizon, including the Federal Reserve potentially increasing interest rates
when it meets next month, convinced him to recommend that the board accept PCN's
offer. And even though the interest rates have risen, he added, the cost of the
borrowing was less than was projected a year ago, when planning for the bond
began

"So we thought it would be prudent to take the bid today and lock in the rate
today because we don't want to see this thing get away from us as we get into
the new year," Remig said.

The money should be the only borrowing the district needs for construction of
the new $25 million elementary school to replace the aging Northwest Elementary
School at Ninth and Maple streets. The rest will be paid for with reserve funds
the district has been saving for in recent years to avoid millions of dollars in
borrowing costs.

Work on the new school in the Aspens Business Park, about a half a mile west of
the current school, has already begun, and a move in date of August 2018 is
anticipated.

In other financial business, the school district received a clean audit report
for the 2015-16 school year from Barbacane, Thornton & Co.

"I am pleased to say that we issued an unmodified report on your financial
statements, also known as a clean report, a clean opinion," said CPA Jeff
Kowalczyk. "And that means we found your financial statement to be materially
accurate. As auditors, that is the highest level of assurance that we are able
to give about financial statements."

The school board will meet for the final time in 2016 at its annual
re-organizational meeting on Dec. 5 at 7 p.m. in the board room at Lebanon High
School, 1000 S. Eighth St.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             133 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Two truths about the election

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 502 words


Three weeks after Election Day, amid a swirl of news reports about recounts and
voter fraud, two truths are worth remembering:

Recounts in three states that helped put Donald Trump over the top have no
chance of reversing the result.

There is no evidence of any significant voter fraud, despite assertions to the
contrary by the president-elect.

Let's start with the recounts. Green Party candidate Jill Stein wants them in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, all of which defied pre-election polls and
went Republican in the presidential race. It's impossible not to see the irony,
and the backside covering, here.

Stein argued during the campaign that Hillary Clinton - who promised to expand
Social Security and make college virtually free - was not liberal enough and was
too close to Wall Street. Now that voters have elected a billionaire president,
who is likely to name at least two other billionaires to his cabinet and try to
repeal Obamacare, Stein says something was amiss.

Yes, something was amiss: the delusional approach of liberals. By failing to
embrace the Democratic nominee, progressives helped elect someone opposed to
their most cherished beliefs.

While Stein is within her rights in asking for recounts, she stands zero chance
of success. Trump's margin of victory ranges from 10,704 in Michigan to more
than 70,000 in Pennsylvania. All three states would have to switch to change the
election's outcome.

Only three times since 2000 have preliminary results been changed after
statewide recounts. In all three cases, which involved non-presidential races,
the change was in the hundreds, not the thousands or tens of thousands, of
votes.

In expressing support for the recount, even the Clinton campaign acknowledged it
had found no "evidence of manipulation of results" and that even in the closest
of the states, Michigan, Trump's lead "exceeds the largest margin ever overcome
in a recount."

You'd think that Trump would embrace this conclusion and welcome recounts to lay
to rest any doubts about his victory. But his ego appears to require that he
capture the popular vote - where he is currently more than 2 million votes
behind Clinton - along with the Electoral College and the White House.

So in a tweet on Sunday, Trump proclaimed: "In addition to winning the Electoral
College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of
people who voted illegally."

Millions? Voted illegally? Where is this coming from? Nowhere. It's false.

This month's election was one of the most closely-watched ever. A huge
monitoring program by Pro Publica, a non-profit investigative outlet, which
included 400 partner newspapers (including USA TODAY), found "no evidence the
election was 'rigged' no matter what Stein or Trump say."

Yes, some problems exist with voter registration rolls. But there is zero proof
of consequential fraud at the polls. Trump seems determined to be a sore winner.
He might, in fact, be the first victor to question the integrity of the election
he won.

- USA Today

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ldn


                     Copyright 2016 The Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


                             134 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Trump picks defense secretary, AG

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 606 words


NEW YORK (AP) -- The Latest on President-elect Donald Trump's transition
activities (all times EST):

8:15 a.m.

President-elect Donald Trump has picked Mike Pompeo -- a Kansas congressman --
to be CIA director.

That's according to a Trump transition official.

Pompeo is a conservative Republican and a fierce critic of President Barack
Obama's nuclear deal with Iran.

Trump is beginning to fill out his governing team, and the transition official
says Trump will make the Pompeo announcement on Friday morning, along with his
nomination of Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions to be attorney general and his
selection of retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn to be national security adviser.

The official wasn't authorized to disclose the decisions ahead of Trump's
announcement and insisted on anonymity.

--By Julie Pace

------

8 a.m.

President-elect Donald Trump is offering the post of attorney general to Alabama
Sen. Jeff Sessions, one of the Trump's closest and most consistent allies.

That's according to a senior Trump official, who was not authorized to speak
publicly about the conversation.

The official on Friday wouldn't say whether Sessions had accepted the job, which
left open the possibility that the arrangement was not finalized.

Sessions was the first senator to endorse Trump and was a close adviser
throughout the campaign.

Trump released a statement Thursday after a meeting with the senator saying he
was "unbelievably impressed" with Sessions.

The Alabama Republican previously struggled with a Senate confirmation hearing
when he was nominated for a federal judgeship in 1986. He was dogged by racist
comments he was accused of making while serving as U.S. attorney in Alabama.

He later withdrew from consideration for the post.

--By Jonathan Lemire.

------

6:50 a.m.

A Republican Party spokesman says President-elect Donald Trump is searching
among "the best and brightest in the country" to set up his administration.

RNC communications director Sean Spicer tells Fox News Channel's "Fox and
Friends" the billionaire businessman isn't "looking at someone's political
affiliation, whether they supported him or not."

He was asked the question in the context of Trump's scheduled meeting this
weekend with 2012 Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who earlier
this year was a harsh critic of the real estate mogul.

Spicer wouldn't comment on whether Trump was set to offer Romney a position in
the administration now being formed.

But when asked what the pair was expected to discuss, the Republican strategist
said only that "they're going to have a conversation."

Spicer called Trump the "new sheriff in town" and said he's determined to bring
qualified people into his administration.

------

3:35 a.m.

President-elect Donald Trump is offering former military intelligence chief
Michael Flynn the position of national security adviser, elevating a fierce
critic of current U.S. foreign policy into a crucial White House role.

Flynn's selection amounts to Trump's first signal to allies and adversaries
about the course he could take in office. It's unclear whether Flynn, a retired
Army general, has accepted the job, though a senior transition official
confirmed Thursday that the president-elect has made the offer. The official was
not authorized to discuss the offer publicly and insisted on anonymity.

Flynn was a fierce critic of President Barack Obama's military and foreign
policy long before he began advising Trump on national security issues during
the presidential campaign. While the position of national security adviser
doesn't require Senate confirmation, Flynn would work in the West Wing and have
frequent access to the president.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: No Published Caption Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our
SmugMug site.
No Published Caption Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our SmugMug
site.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             135 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Trump said to pick Sen. Jeff Sessions for AG

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 485 words


NEW YORK (AP) -- The Latest on President-elect Donald Trump's transition
activities (All times EST):

8 a.m.

President-elect Donald Trump is offering the post of attorney general to Alabama
Sen. Jeff Sessions, one of the Trump's closest and most consistent allies.

That's according to a senior Trump official, who was not authorized to speak
publicly about the conversation.

The official on Friday wouldn't say whether Sessions had accepted the job, which
left open the possibility that the arrangement was not finalized.

Sessions was the first senator to endorse Trump and was a close adviser
throughout the campaign.

Trump released a statement Thursday after a meeting with the senator saying he
was "unbelievably impressed" with Sessions.

The Alabama Republican previously struggled with a Senate confirmation hearing
when he was nominated for a federal judgeship in 1986. He was dogged by racist
comments he was accused of making while serving as U.S. attorney in Alabama.

He later withdrew from consideration for the post.

------

6:50 a.m.

A Republican Party spokesman says President-elect Donald Trump is searching
among "the best and brightest in the country" to set up his administration.

RNC communications director Sean Spicer tells Fox News Channel's "Fox and
Friends" the billionaire businessman isn't "looking at someone's political
affiliation, whether they supported him or not."

He was asked the question in the context of Trump's scheduled meeting this
weekend with 2012 Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who earlier
this year was a harsh critic of the real estate mogul.

Spicer wouldn't comment on whether Trump was set to offer Romney a position in
the administration now being formed.

But when asked what the pair was expected to discuss, the Republican strategist
said only that "they're going to have a conversation."

Spicer called Trump the "new sheriff in town" and said he's determined to bring
qualified people into his administration.

------

3:35 a.m.

President-elect Donald Trump is offering former military intelligence chief
Michael Flynn the position of national security adviser, elevating a fierce
critic of current U.S. foreign policy into a crucial White House role.

Flynn's selection amounts to Trump's first signal to allies and adversaries
about the course he could take in office. It's unclear whether Flynn, a retired
Army general, has accepted the job, though a senior transition official
confirmed Thursday that the president-elect has made the offer. The official was
not authorized to discuss the offer publicly and insisted on anonymity.

Flynn was a fierce critic of President Barack Obama's military and foreign
policy long before he began advising Trump on national security issues during
the presidential campaign. While the position of national security adviser
doesn't require Senate confirmation, Flynn would work in the West Wing and have
frequent access to the president.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: No Published Caption Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our
SmugMug site.
No Published Caption Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our SmugMug
site.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             136 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Where's the balance?

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 443 words


So much for respecting the political process. Remember, that's what both
President Obama and Hillary Clinton urged after she lost the presidential
election. The peaceful transfer of power is a hallmark of our democracy, and all
Americans -- no matter how they voted -- should support this cornerstone of our
republic.

Apparently, that's fine in theory but not in practice.

Donald Trump soon will be sworn in as our 45th president. He accomplished this
by carrying 30 states and accumulating 306 electoral votes.

So why should a major Massachusetts employer feel the need to apologize because
it agrees with a policy the president-elect also endorses?

By the way, socialist firebrand Bernie Sanders sides with Trump on this one --
as does Clinton, after flip-flopping during the presidential campaign.

So apparently, it's the who -- not the what -- that counts. Even if that who is
the president of the United States.

That's the incredible situation in which sneaker maker New Balance finds itself,
just because one of its officers stated the obvious.

Responding to a question by a Wall Street Journal reporter about the pending
Obama-backed Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, New Balance's vice
president of public affairs stated essentially that its business prospects
should improve with President Trump's policies in place.

That's because Trump -- plus Sanders, Clinton and many in Congress of both
parties -- see the TPP as a domestic jobs killer. New Balance, which operates
five factories in this country, including one in Lawrence, wants to protect
those jobs from unfair foreign competition, which it believes the TPP will
facilitate.

As a result, New Balance received tons of social media outrage and boycott
threats, for suggesting that Trump might know something about business.

And now it's receiving advice on how to essentially apologize for daring to use
the name of the next president of the United States in a positive light.

Would there have been any indignation if that New Balance executive had
mentioned a president-elect Clinton in the same response? Of course not.

It's not the position; it's the person.

We're sorry New Balance has fallen victim to this toxic post-election
environment, especially since the company represents an industry struggling to
stay alive in this state and country.

We'd hope members of our congressional delegation would stick up for New Balance
and the high-paying jobs it represents, but as we've already observed, none
dares take the political risk of alienating the Democratic base.

And so we advise New Balance's employees to take notice of those who didn't come
to your company's defense in this time of crisis.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             137 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Election stirs emotions, fears on campuses

BYLINE: By Grant Welker, gwelker@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 1109 words


After a presidential election unlike any other, many people are reacting to the
results like they never quite have before.

Some school leaders have taken the unprecedented step of having to calm fears of
students who are so tense from an election that elevated Donald J. Trump to the
White House.

At UMass Lowell, Chancellor Jacqueline Moloney and the school's Office of
Multicultural Affairs staff both sent messages to the campus community after the
election.

"These are unprecedented times," the multicultural affairs office said in an
email signed by Director Leslie Wong and others. "This is a critical time to
make sure that you, your friends, classmates, neighbors are doing OK and seeking
the appropriate support, especially if they need a place to process or work
through what they're feeling."

The office held what it called a "post-election self-care session" the day after
the election, with stress-reduction techniques.

Moloney wrote to the university community saying she wanted to "acknowledge the
uncertainty and fear that many in our community are feeling."

"I want you to know," the chancellor said, "that our commitment to justice,
respect for one another and, above all, your safety has not wavered."

She added: "To our students, faculty and staff, I promise you this: You are
welcome here. Your voice matters. You matter."

Moloney included information for how to contact the university's Wellness
Center, police and other offices.

Neither message mentioned the candidates specifically, much less the campaign
pledges Trump made, including that he would deport undocumented immigrants and
halt Muslims looking to enter the country. The college said the messages were
planned before the election and not the result of the election results or any
specific incident.

"I just wanted to acknowledge obviously some people were concerned after the
election, that the university would continue to do what we're doing," Moloney
said in an interview. "Either way, the election has been very divisive."

Trump's election has sparked protests across the nation, with some students
walking out of high school or college classes and taking to the streets.

Clearly, the election has brought out tension among supporters of both Hillary
Clinton and Trump, and those who weren't enamored with either candidate. The Sun
solicited through its Facebook page comments from college students who felt
fearful or threatened because of the election results. No student came forward.

But The Sun received a flood of comments, many from apparent Trump supporters,
criticizing students for not being tougher -- and the newspaper for giving those
people a voice.

A Lowell native and University of New Hampshire student, Daniel Landry, said he
was disappointed in The Sun for "adding fuel to this flame of students feeling
threatened."

"What the media, and apparently you, are teaching these kids is that democracy
is only OK when it works in their favor," he said. "That it is OK to claim that
you feel threatened when your candidate loses, or riot in the streets."

Political observers say it's no surprise that many people feel tense, or that
there appears to be wider divide than ever among voters.

A Pew poll several weeks before the election found that four-fifths of
respondents said that most Clinton and Trump supporters didn't just disagree
over policies but also on "basic facts."

Most also weren't thrilled with their choices for president. A poll this summer
by ABC News and The Washington Post found 58 percent of voters to be unhappy
with the Clinton-Trump match-up.

In September, another Pew poll found that most Republicans planned to vote for
Trump more out of opposition to Clinton than in support for their own party's
nominee. Clinton herself barely surpassed Trump among Democrats asked whether
their vote was more for her versus against him.

Political leanings aside, the election results have hit a nerve with an unusual
number of Americans. Psychology Today posted on its website about dealing with
"post-election blues." Calls to crisis-support hotlines reportedly spiked as the
presidential results came in.

Incidents of hate crimes, particularly aimed at Muslims, and other minorities
have been on the rise this year.

Since Nov. 8, the Southern Poverty Law Center has begun soliciting hate-crime
incidents related to the election. The NAACP on Tuesday issued a statement
saying the election has "emboldened white supremacists across the country."

There have also been election-related incidents across the country since the
election. Last week, two Babson College students drove through Wellesley College
-- Clinton's alma mater -- waving a Trump flag and being "disruptive," the
college said.

Some other colleges have also taken steps to help students deal with the
election results.

At Middlesex Community College, Rebecca Newell, the assistant dean of students,
said the school was committed to encouraging respectful discussion about the
election and how people are affected. Newell distributed safety pins that some
are wearing as signs of solidarity, and the college set up a white board in the
Bedford campus center to allow people to leave their thoughts.

"People are definitely talking," she said.

Newell sent a message to students the day before the election, saying that
regardless of the outcome, "you may also be feeling anxious about how it will
impact you."

"While we may be living in a time of uncertainty and amidst constant change, we
will work together in a climate of civility and respect," she added.

UMass President Marty Meehan office sent out a statement this week, reaffirming
the university system's "commitment to diversity and inclusion."

"We have seen many reports of increased incidents of hate, harassment and
intimidation across the nation over the past week," Meehan said.

At Fitchburg State University, President Richard Lapidus sent a message to the
campus community saying the university "remains committed to being a welcoming
community to all."

Fitchburg spokesman Matthew Bruun said the university met with several students
who expressed concern about the election in the days afterward, but that the
volume has slowed since then.

Schools have been especially responsive to the election.

Boston Public Schools offered counseling to students to what Superintendent
Tommy Chang said were students who "may be having a difficult time processing
any fears or concerns they may have."

"We honor our democratic values and traditions," he said in a letter to
students, staff and parents, "and we will carry on with our mission to educate,
support and prepare our students for success."

Follow Grant Welker on Twitter and Tout @SunGrantWelker.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             138 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Backtalk: 11/18/2016

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BACKTALK

LENGTH: 296 words


ACTIONS SPEAK LOUDER: So this is how the "tolerant" liberals react to losing an
election. Riots. Mayhem. Assaults. Violence. And to think they could have been
in power. How ironic that the very thing they accuse conservatives of being they
seem to embrace and act out. Who are the real fascists now?

Dunstable

NATURAL HIGH: I find it incredible that The Sun has included opioid overdose
deaths in the same editorial as recreational marijuana. Heroin is an illegally
produced highly concentrated drug with a potency unknown to the user until they
consume it. Marijuana is a natural herb consumed just as it comes from the
plant. No one has ever died from an overdose of marijuana.There is no comparison
between heroin and marijuana and it is irresponsible of The Sun to do so. The
people got this one right. Long live democracy!

Chelmsford

WILLING DONOR: During the presidential campaign I was deluged with requests for
money for various candidates. Now that the election is over, where can I donate
money to help the Hollywood stars make their moves to Canada and Australia
easier? Also, I would be interested in helping the folks in the state of
California to officially become a part of Mexico.

Dracut

WARPED REALITY: How desperate can a guy be who'd blow himself up for a few
virgins in paradise? Or are they really drugged, shamed or coerced in some way?
Christian martyrs took their own life when forced to; what's propelling this
endless supply of eager suiciders?

Lowell

DO YOUR JOB: Sen. Elizabeth Warren supported Hillary Clinton and she's a loser;
Warren is a loser too. She should start working for us.

Dracut

LEFT EXAMINATION: The liberal media bear a lot of responsibility in the way
Trump was depicted. The collective media need to take a hard look at themselves.

Pelham, N.H.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             139 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Trump's flirtation with Romney is big-league smar

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: OPINIONS

LENGTH: 531 words


By Chris Cillizza

The Washington Post

The news, as always, came via Twitter:

"NBC News: Source close to Trump with direct knowledge of his thinking confirms
Sunday's meeting with Romney is to discuss Secretary of State"

Mitt Romney, the face - and voice - of the resistance to Donald Trump in the
Republican primary and the general election will huddle with the president-elect
over the weekend to talk about possibly serving as the nation's top diplomat.

It's uniquely possible, of course, that this meeting is solely for show. After
all, Trump isn't exactly someone who forgives and forgets. And Romney has
significant policy disagreements with the president-elect - most notably in how
they view Russia. (Romney has said Russia is "our No. 1 geopolitical foe." Trump
has, um, not.)

Plus, the Trump transition team seems committed to floating literally every
person who has ever been a Republican of any renown as a potential Cabinet
appointee.

So, yes, this could all be just a giant feint in the ongoing reality show that
is "Donald Trump, President."

But, what if it isn't?

If Trump is willing to actually offer Romney the Secretary of State job and
Romney is actually willing to take it, it would represent a major coup for the
president-elect. Why?

1) Romney is a serious and highly respected, card-carrying member of the
Republican establishment.

2) Per above, Romney has made no secret of his disagreements - both personally
and on policy matters - with Trump.

3) It would settle the nerves of millions of people who didn't vote for Trump as
to what sort of president he might be.

The biggest question mark - for all of official Washington - is whether Trump
can get beyond his own personal grievances and loyalty pledges to actually focus
on doing the best thing for the country over the next four years. Who he picks
for his key Cabinet posts - and sSecretary of state is one of the most critical
- is a key early indicator of where Trump's mind is.

Picking Romney - or even South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, another prominent
critic whom Trump met with Thursday - would show something that was sorely
lacking in Donald Trump the candidate: Magnanimity. A willingness to pick the
person he believes is best for the job, not just someone who was unfailingly
loyal to him during the campaign. Someone who might challenge his assumptions or
opinions from time to time. An equal, not a lackey.

Again, this would, largely, run counter to how Trump ran his presidential
campaign. But that would also make picking Romney all the more powerful as a
symbol. Campaigns are one thing, it would be Trump saying, but being president
is another. I want to be surrounded by the best people for the job - no matter
what we said about each other in the past.

This is, of course, the whole "Team of Rivals" concept that garnered President
Barack Obama so much good press in his own transition period back in late 2008.
Trump has further to go - a lot further to go - than Obama did to heal the rifts
within his own party and answer doubts about his readiness to do the job to
which he was elected. But, the Romney meeting is a step in the right direction.
Getting Romney to sign on would be an even bigger one.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             140 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Groups to hold anti-hate rally at Massachusetts Statehouse

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 142 words


BOSTON (AP) -- More than 30 groups are planning a rally at the Massachusetts
Statehouse to denounce hate incidents reported around the country after the
election.

Officials with the Anti-Defamation League say the rally is scheduled for 11 a.m.
Monday and will feature government officials including state Attorney General
Maura Healey and Boston Mayor Marty Walsh, both Democrats.

Organizers say the event's message will be that no matter who people supported
in the presidential election, hate crimes are not acceptable and do not
represent the whole city, state or country.

There have been reports of racist and anti-religious incidents around the
country since the Nov. 8 election.

Other groups taking part in the rally include the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People and the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             141 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Anti-hate ralliers denounce post-election incidents

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 780 words


By Katie Lannan

STATE HOUSE NEWS SERVICE

BOSTON -- On the steps of the State House Monday, before a large crowd onto
Beacon Street, Harvard Law student Harmann Singh told a crowd that he was
"aggressively accosted" in a store in Cambridge last week, followed around and
screamed at by a man who thought he was a Muslim.

Singh, who is a Sikh, said he shared that story to show that intolerance can
happen anywhere and many Americans have felt unsafe in the days since the Nov. 8
presidential election won by Republican Donald Trump, who defeated Democrat
Hillary Clinton following a campaign marked by division and heated rhetoric.

"The movement against such hate transcends political and personal identities,"
Singh said during a rally attended by several of the state's top political
figures. "We must stand up against it collectively, no matter where or when it
occurs."

The rally was held by the Anti-Defamation League and a coalition of 30 local
groups in response to what the organizers described as "an alarming number of
hate and bias fueled incidents across the country and in Massachusetts."

Elected officials who spoke at the event called on ralliers to protect their
neighbors, oppose hatred and remain involved in the political process, while
pledging that state government would work to protect Massachusetts residents.

Attorney General Maura Healey said a hotline her office established for
residents to report bias-motivated harassment and hate crimes has received
nearly 400 calls since its launch a week ago.

Healey said that in the past two weeks, a Puerto Rican couple in West
Springfield found the words "go home" keyed into their car, Ku Klux Klan
newspapers were delivered to homes in Milford, and racist graffiti was found in
an Attleboro High School bathroom.

Though few speakers referred to President-elect Trump by name, Healey and
Treasurer Deb Goldberg both criticized his recent Cabinet appointees, which
Healey called "really disturbing."

The crowd booed as Goldberg named some of the appointees -- Republican National
Committee Chairman Reince Priebus, U.S. Sen. Jeff Sessions and Steve Bannon, who
headed Trump's campaign.

"We cannot afford to wait and see," Goldberg said of the Trump administration,
going on to reference a warning by Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel to "never be
fooled."

"I'm not accusing anyone in particular of being an anti-Semite or being
anti-everyone, but I am accusing them of -- I am accusing them of nurturing,
mentoring, taking advantage of and feeding the underbelly of the animal for
their own interests," Goldberg said.

Gov. Charlie Baker, a Republican who was critical of Trump during the
presidential race, said last week there was "way too much pre-judging going on"
as Trump announced early Cabinet picks and that he would follow President Barack
Obama's lead in waiting to judge the Trump administration "by the totality of
its appointments."

Baker did not attend Monday's rally, which organizers attributed to a scheduling
conflict, but sent along a letter expressing his support.

"Our strength as a community lies in Massachusetts' diversity and openness to
the world. The commonwealth has been and always will be a welcoming state," said
the letter, which was read at the event by Anti-Defamation League Robert
Trestan, the Anti-Defamation League's regional director.

Though all the elected officials who attended the rally were Democrats, Boston
Mayor Martin Walsh urged a bipartisan approach and called on attendees to seek
out common ground.

"We should be tolerant of many different views," Walsh said. "We should respect
the Democratic process but we will not remain neutral when hate rears its ugly
head."

House Speaker Robert DeLeo said that it is the duty of state government to
"protect all of our residents, no matter what is going on in Washington," and
said that while members of the House may disagree on policy matters, "we are
united in opposing hatred and opposing intolerance."

Senate President Stan Rosenberg read a statement that he said reflected "the
sentiments of all 40 members of the Massachusetts Senate."

"To those who feel threatened by recent events, be assured that our belief
remains steadfast: everyone is entitled to the same rights and protections, and
we will stand by your side to uphold the law," the statement said.

Other elected officials who attended included Reps. Lori Ehrlich, Jonathan
Hecht, David Linsky, Daniel Cullinane, Byron Rushing and Daniel Ryan; Sens.
Karen Spilka, Thomas McGee, Cynthia Creem and Linda Dorcena Forry; Senator-elect
Julian Cyr; Suffolk County Sheriff Steven Tompkins; Suffolk District Attorney
Daniel Conley; and Boston City Councilors Josh Zakim and Matt O'Malley.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             142 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

EUGENE ROBINSON: Democrats must learn from the GOP and rebuild

BYLINE: By Eugene Robinson

SECTION: OPINIONS

LENGTH: 778 words


WASHINGTON -- The Republican Party is fractured by ideological divisions, led by
an inexperienced and unpredictable president-elect, and quite possibly headed
for a fratricidal civil war. The Democratic Party should be so lucky.

There is much unpleasant reality for Democrats to deal with right now, starting
with this: The GOP controls virtually everything. The two-party system is, at
best, one and a half.

Republicans won the presidency. They retained control of both houses of
Congress. Soon, when Donald Trump appoints a replacement for the late Justice
Antonin Scalia, they will re-establish a conservative majority on the Supreme
Court. As far as the federal government is concerned, that's the whole trifecta.

But there's much more: After making significant gains last week, Republicans
control both legislative chambers in 32 states -- and hold the governorships in
33. Some of the nation's most diverse and populous states, including Texas and
Florida, are living under one-party Republican rule.

Democrats should reject the urge to take comfort in favorable demographic
trends. It is true that within a generation, minorities will be in the majority
-- and that minorities tend to vote for Democrats. But what would the country be
like after 20 or 30 years of near-total Republican control? I'm sure most
progressives would join me in not wanting to run that dangerous experiment.

Did Democrats lose the White House because their presidential candidate had
baggage and was not perfect in every way? Come on, the Republicans nominated
Trump, for heaven's sake, a man who bragged about grabbing women by the
genitals. I don't have nearly enough space to list all the ways in which he
disqualified himself. Yet he won.

The Republican Party is so splintered -- the establishment, the tea-party wing,
the fiscal tightwads, the defense hawks, the social conservatives, the
libertarians and now the Trumpistas -- that sometimes I think of it as
Afghanistan: with each faction having its own warlords and grievances and goals.
Many of the demands they make upon Trump, House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will be uncompromisingly extreme and mutually
exclusive. There will be blood (metaphorically, of course).

Yet if Democrats expect to sit back and watch the GOP self-destruct, I fear they
will be disappointed. Consider this fact: The Republican Party not only survived
the Trump candidacy, but prospered. Why would the same not be true of a Trump
presidency?

One of the biggest lessons I draw from the election is that the GOP basically
came together behind its candidate. Despite all the Never Trump noise, most
prominent Republican officials eventually fell in line. Some voiced strong
reservations but said they would vote for him anyway, which amounted to an
endorsement. Others, such as the Bush family, declined to publicly proclaim
their opposition in a way that perhaps might have made a difference. Maybe they
thought he was bound to lose anyway; if so, they miscalculated.

Another lesson, perhaps the most important one, is that the Democratic Party
cannot hope to succeed by relying solely on its ability to win the popular vote
in presidential elections.

Democrats have won the popular vote in 1992, 1996, 2000, 2008, 2012 and now
2016. That's six out of the last seven presidential contests. Yet the Republican
Party is running the country, or at least most of it.

The Democratic Party cannot just wait for the next Barack Obama to come along.
The president is a unique political talent of the kind that appears only once in
a great while, when the stars magically align. Instead, Democrats need to do
what Republicans did, which is to build from the ground up and start winning
state and local elections.

A Democratic rebound has to begin with the basics: getting people who agree with
you to vote. Less than 60 percent of those eligible to cast ballots in the Nov.
8 election bothered to do so. Conservatives who say this is "a center-right
nation" may be right in terms of who votes, but they're wrong in terms of who
could vote. Polls show that the country favors Democratic over Republican
positions on most issues.

The Democratic Party should put its energy and money into connecting with
potential voters at the grass-roots level. Trump made a bunch of pie-in-the-sky
promises he can never keep. Democrats need a hopeful but realistic message
recognizing that while most big cities prosper in today's globalized economy,
much of the rest of the country suffers.

Democrats will win when theirs is the "big tent" party. Right now, though, the
GOP circus is in town.

Eugene Robinson's email address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             143 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Backtalk: 11/25/2016

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BACKTALK

LENGTH: 327 words


SHOE'S ON OTHER FOOT: To Niki Tsongas, her little puppy Seth Moulton, and
crybaby Maura Healey, all sobbing because Trump became president and sharing
fears that their time in the spotlight is over. Tough break. The rest of us have
been horrified for the last eight years of the Obama administration, and feared
that Hillary would continue with the destruction of America. Suck it up,
buttercup!

Chelmsford

OFF THE HOOK: I'm as disappointed as any liberal by the results of the recent
election, but at least I don't have to defend my president for the next four
years.

Lowell

CLEARANCE SALE: Step right up! Be the first in your neighborhood to get your own
Obama "Presidential Medal of Freedom." All that is required is to say you voted
for Obama and/or Clinton in a recent election. Request yours while the supply
lasts, and no later than midnight Jan. 19, 2017.

Dracut

WATCH YOUR WORDS: Gov. Baker told The Sun: "I'll fight for sanctuary cities
funding." I voted for Baker for governor but if he does, he will not receive my
vote in future elections.

Shirley

GOP'S MASS. LAMENT: As a Massachusetts citizen, I have in the past voted for
Republican candidates. As a Massachusetts citizen, I have had to suck it up
knowing that my Republican vote wasn't worth the meager space it it took up on
the ballot. This past presidential election is no different. The Electoral
College delegates from Massachusetts will not recognize my vote.

Dracut

NO INCENTIVE: In the past 50 years I have had to register to vote in two
locations, both of which required me to read a sentence in English to qualify.
Today, we teach kids in English as a second language, and that is exactly what
it is -- a second language. They go home to their parents, grandparents, and
extended families and speak their native tongue. As long as they don't have to
read or write English to collect their Social Security and Welfare checks, their
parents don't care about learning English from their kids.

Dracut

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             144 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Trump slams recount push as 'a scam,' says election is over

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 898 words


WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) -- President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday condemned
a growing push to force recounts in three states pivotal to his Nov. 8 victory,
confronting the Green Party-backed effort for the first time even as he worked
to address key Cabinet vacancies.

The New York billionaire, who charged the election was "rigged" on a daily basis
before his victory, called the developing recount effort "a scam" in a statement
released by his transition team.

Trump had been ignoring Green Party nominee Jill Stein's fight to revisit vote
totals in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. Wisconsin officials announced
late Friday they are moving forward with the first presidential recount in state
history.

"The people have spoken and the election is over," Trump declared Saturday. He
added, "We must accept this result and then look to the future."

At the same time, Trump was scrambling to address unfilled administration jobs,
having barely scratched the surface of creating the massive team needed to run
the government before his Jan. 20 inauguration.

Experts say presidential transitions are periods of great vulnerability for the
nation, and among the vacancies on the Trump team are leaders of the departments
of State, Defense and Homeland Security.

Trump, who has virtually no experience in foreign affairs, offered a one-line
tweet Saturday morning in reaction to the death of Cuban leader Fidel Castro --
"Fidel Castro is dead!" -- before issuing a more detailed statement.

"While Cuba remains a totalitarian island, it is my hope that today marks a move
away from the horrors endured for too long, and toward a future in which the
wonderful Cuban people finally live in the freedom they so richly deserve,"
Trump said.

His transition team did not respond to requests to clarify his Cuba policy,
which was inconsistent during the campaign.

Trump first suggested he supported President Barack Obama's orders loosening the
U.S. trade embargo on the island. He reversed himself less than a month before
the election, however, vowing to overturn Obama's order unless Cuba meets
demands including "religious and political freedom for the Cuban people and the
freeing of political prisoners."

Meanwhile, the incoming president paid little if any attention Stein's recount
push, but Democratic rival Hillary Clinton forced his hand on Saturday by
formally joining the effort. Stein, who drew 1 percent of the vote nationally,
is raising millions of dollars to fund the recounts.

"Because we had not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or outside
attempts to alter the voting technology, we had not planned to exercise this
option ourselves," Clinton campaign attorney Marc Elias wrote Saturday in blog
post. "But now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to
participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to
all sides."

Elias said Clinton would take the same approach in Pennsylvania and Michigan if
Stein were to follow through with recount requests those states, even though
that was highly unlikely to change the election outcome.

"Regardless of the potential to change the outcome in any of the states, we feel
it is important, on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally represented in
any court proceedings and represented on the ground in order to monitor the
recount process itself," Elias wrote.

Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2 million votes, but Trump
won 290 electoral votes to Clinton's 232, with Michigan still too close to call.
It takes 270 to win the presidency.

Trump, who repeatedly challenged the integrity of the U.S. election system
before his win, called the recount push "a scam by the Green Party for an
election that has already been conceded."

"The results of this election should be respected instead of being challenged
and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is doing," he said in the
statement, which didn't mention Clinton's involvement.

Trump was spending the Thanksgiving holiday weekend with family at his Palm
Beach estate, Mar-a-Lago. He had planned to focus on filling key administration
posts over the working vacation. On Friday, he named Fox News analyst Kathleen
Troia "KT" McFarland as deputy national security adviser and appointed campaign
attorney Donald McGahn as White House counsel.

Trump planned to return to his New York home on Sunday ahead of a series of
Monday meetings with prospective administration hires, including Sheriff David
Clarke of Milwaukee County, Wisconsin. He's seen as a possible Homeland Security
pick. Clarke's vocal opposition to the "Black Lives Matter" movement has made
him popular with many conservatives.

Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence also have Monday meetings scheduled
with Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, Rep. Lou Barletta, R-Pa., former
Security and Exchange Commission commissioner Paul Atkins, World Wide Technology
chairman David Steward and General Growth Properties CEO Sandeep Mathrani.

Internal divisions over his choice for secretary of state have delayed that
critical decision. The options include former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who
lacks foreign policy experience, but was intensely loyal to Trump, and 2012
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who aggressively opposed Trump's
candidacy but is largely regarded as more qualified. Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker
is also a possibility.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             145 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Stein recount push

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 428 words


And we thought Donald Trump might not accept the presidential results. Funny how
the tables have turned, now that progressives are faced with this unanticipated
outcome.

We'll give credit to Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party establishment.
They've urged supporters to accept Trump's electoral vote victory, even though
her lead in the popular vote continues to grow, now approaching 2 million.

But certain parties just won't let go, like Green Party candidate Jill Stein.
The Lexington resident, whose candidacy probably helped derail Clinton's, now
has mounted a recount crusade in the three key states that barely broke for the
Republican president-elect -- Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

Trump eked out his closest margin of victory in Michigan. On Wednesday the
secretary of state there officially accepted the certified recount results from
all its counties, which gave Trump an adjusted 10,704-vote margin of victory.

However, Stein targeted Wisconsin for the initial recount challenge. She managed
to quickly raise nearly $5 million for that effort -- far more than she could
ever attract to her own campaign. Stein beat the Friday recount deadline.

Supposedly Stein was moved to act due to alleged reports of Internet hacking
into the results in those three states, claims that have since been discounted
or dismissed, even by the New York Times.

Undeterred, Stein apparently intends -- fundraising permitting -- to purse
recounts in all three states.

For the record, Trump enjoys about a 27,000-vote margin in Wisconsin and a
nearly 70,000-vote cushion in Pennsylvania.

Without Michigan's 16 electoral votes, Trump still totals 290 -- 20 more than he
needs.

And of course we have other progressive wingnuts pressuring Republican electors
to switch their allegiance to Clinton when they officially meet in December to
select the vice president and president.

By tradition, electors are pledged to the candidate that won that particular
state. According to a U.S. House of Representatives' website, defections almost
never occur -- and no more than one in any election.

Even in the hotly "hanging chad" 2000 presidential election, when it took the
Supreme Court to finally declare George W. Bush the winner over Al Gore,
electors voted the party line, except for one who submitted a blank ballot.

It's time for Jill Stein to put her conspiracy theories aside and join the
overwhelming majority in this country, which seek to turn the page and move on
with the seamless transition of presidential succession.

Our nation deserves precedence over political agendas.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             146 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

MSNBC political analyst -- and Groton native -- to speak at UMass Lowell

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 239 words


LOWELL -- MSNBC and "Today" show political analyst Steve Kornacki, who has been
a frequent commentator on the presidential campaign and its outcome, will
headline the event "Election 2016: What the #&^! Happened" at UMass Lowell
Friday at noon.

Kornacki - a native of nearby Groton who took classes at UMass Lowell - has been
providing daily, in-depth analysis of the presidential race and what has
happened since the election on MSNBC and "Today." His coverage during the
election included polls by UMass Lowell's Center for Public Opinion of likely
voters in New Hampshire and a national survey of millennials that found nearly a
quarter would have rather seen Earth hit by a giant meteor than vote for Hillary
Clinton or Donald Trump.

At the program, Kornacki will offer his take on how the campaign played out, the
events that have unfolded since Nov. 8 and what it all may hold for the future
of American politics.

Kornacki is the former politics editor for Salon and his work has appeared in
The Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Boston Globe and other publications.

The event is being hosted by the Center for Public Opinion, along with the UMass
Lowell Department of Political Science and the College of Fine Arts, Humanities
and Social Sciences.

The event will be held at the O'Leary Library Learning Commons, South Campus, 61
Wilder St., Lowell.

Free public parking is available in the Wilder lot across the street from the
venue.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Steve Kornacki Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our SmugMug
site.
Steve Kornacki Sun staff photos can be ordered by visiting our SmugMug site.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             147 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Trump to meet with Petraeus,

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: PETS; Latest news

LENGTH: 1690 words


By Jerry Markon, Paul Kane

The Washington Post

President-elect Donald Trump will meet Monday with retired Army Gen. David
Petraeus, a possible alternative choice for secretary of state amid an
escalating feud over the position between supporters of former New York mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who will sit
down with Trump on Tuesday.

As Trump's senior advisers battled over who should fill what is considered the
most prestigious Cabinet post, the president-elect will hold a second session
with Romney along with another possible option, Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., aides
said Monday. Corker, who will visit Manhattan's Trump Tower on Tuesday, chairs
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and had suggested publicly that he was
unlikely to be chosen.

But Trump is reportedly considering alternatives for the State Department as an
extraordinary feud has broken out between those supporting Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor considered the quintessential establishment Republican,
and Giuliani, a fierce Trump backer seen by some as deserving the secretary of
state post out of sheer loyalty. Romney attacked Trump in unusually harsh and
personal terms during the presidential campaign.

The fight hit a fevered pitch over Thanksgiving weekend as Kellyanne Conway,
Trump's former campaign manager and now senior adviser to the transition team,
took to the airwaves to attack Romney's credentials to be the nation's top
diplomat. Conway is part of a cadre of Trump confidants who are waging an
unusual public battle against Romney to influence the president-elect's
decision.

Another Trump backer, Rep. Chris Collins, R-N.Y., blasted Romney on CNN's "New
Day" Monday as "a self-serving egomaniac who puts himself first, who has a chip
on his shoulder, and thinks that he should be president of the United States."
And Brent Bozell, an influential conservative activist, said in a statement that
"the very idea of Mitt Romney as Secretary of State - or any other cabinet
position in a Trump administration - is a slap to his supporters.''

Others inside Trump's orbit, particularly Vice President-elect Mike Pence, are
viewed as Romney supporters, believing that he has a steady hand that would
benefit Trump in the turbulent world of diplomacy, according to people familiar
with the dispute who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal
deliberations.

Trump was angered at Conway's remarks, according to a report Monday on MSNBC's
"Morning Joe.'' Trump aides declined to comment during a conference call with
reporters, saying only that the president-elect is taking his time to choose the
best possible candidate. Jason Miller, a senior Trump communications adviser,
said Trump is meeting with Romney again because "the two, quite frankly, haven't
spent much time together, so this gives them a little more time to do so.''

The secretary of state search heated up as Trump resumed a busy schedule of
transition meetings Monday at Manhattan's Trump Tower after spending
Thanksgiving weekend at his Florida estate. Among those dropping by today will
be a candidate for Homeland Security secretary: Frances Townsend, a top homeland
security and counterterrorism official in the George W. Bush administration.
Another DHS contender - Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texaa, chairman of the House
Homeland Security Committee - will meet with Trump on Tuesday.

Pence, who will participate in the meetings, entered the Trump Tower lobby
Monday morning and paused in front of the elevators amid shouted questions from
reporters, saying only: "It's going to be a busy week. Get ready. Buckle up."

Trump aides continued Monday to blast a pending recount effort in Wisconsin led
by Green Party candidate Jill Stein that has been joined by Democrat Hillary
Clinton's campaign. Trump had spent Sunday ridiculing Clinton's campaign over
the issue, before ending his day on Twitter by parroting a widely debunked
conspiracy theory that her campaign benefited from massive voter fraud.

"In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally," Trump tweeted
late Sunday, one of more than 10 tweets on the recount issue.

That accusation - spread by conspiracy sites such as Infowars.com and
discredited by fact-checking organizations - gained traction among some
conservatives disappointed that Trump lost the popular vote to Clinton, though
he won the all-important electoral college.

Stein has also filed a recount request in Pennsylvania and plans to do the same
in Michigan, her campaign said in a statement Monday. Trump's surprise victories
in the three Great Lakes states was instrumental in his electoral college win.

Miller, in the briefing, added: "I really do think it's ridiculous that so much
oxygen has been given to recount efforts when there is absolutely no chance of
the election results changing. This election has been decided. It's a conceded
election.''

White House spokesman Josh Earnest, who sometimes had harsh words for Trump
during the campaign, went out of his way to avoid criticizing the
president-elect during his daily briefing Monday. "I think I would defer to the
president-elect's team for commentary on his tweets," Earnest said.

On the broader election fraud topic, however, Earnest said: "There has been no
evidence produced to substantiate a claim like that.''

Earnest did take issue, however, with Trump's tweet Monday morning threatening
Cuba's regime in the wake of former president Fidel Castro's death. Trump vowed
to "terminate" President Obama's efforts to restore full diplomatic relations
between the two nations unless Cuba's communist leaders pursue unspecified
changes in their approach.

"If Cuba is unwilling to make a better deal for the Cuban people, the
Cuban/American people and the U.S. as a whole, I will terminate deal," Trump
tweeted.

Abandoning the diplomatic reset with Cuba would appease Republican critics of
Obama's efforts, which ran counter to U.S. policy that had aimed to drive Castro
from power starting in the 1960s. But Earnest touted what he called the benefits
of the policy shift, for both Americans eager to travel to the island nation and
for average Cubans.

Summarily reversing Obama's policy, Earnest said, "is not just as simple as one
tweet might make it seem.''

Petraeus arrived at Trump Tower soon after 2 p.m. Eastern time Monday but did
not respond to shouted questions from reporters. Petraeus, who has been taking a
"wait and see" approach on joining the new administration, according to a U.S.
military official who speaks with him often, has emerged as a possible
alternative for secretary of state amid the battle over Romney.

The general is one of the most influential military officers of his generation
but ended his government career as director of the CIA in November 2012 amid
revelations that he had an affair with his biographer.

Petraeus pleaded guilty in April 2015 to a misdemeanor charge of mishandling
classified information in connection with the scandal - namely sharing
information with biographer Paula Broadwell - and was sentenced to probation and
a $100,000 fine. He could face a tough Senate confirmation process because of
that history, though he has since testified before the Senate Armed Services
Committee as a foreign policy expert.

Conway over the weekend had led the remarkable rear-guard attack on Romney,
arguing that he was disloyal to Trump and should not be considered to run the
State Department. The remarks highlighted a fierce behind-the-scenes battle
within the Trump camp over whether Romney should be offered the job as a healing
gesture with the establishment or whether a loyalist such as Giuliani should get
the nod.

Romney's supporters have largely counseled Trump privately, while his opponents
- Conway, former House speaker Newt Gingrich and a handful of other Trump
loyalists - have gone public in recent days to stoke a revolt.

Those opposed to Romney have been advocating that Trump reward Giuliani with the
secretary of state position, stressing his loyalty vs. Romney's refusal to
publicly say whom he voted for in the presidential race.

"I don't think a cost of admission for party unity has to be the secretary of
state position," Conway said on ABC's "This Week," suggesting that Romney went
too far in questioning Trump's character and intellect during the presidential
race. "There was the 'Never Trump' movement and then there was Governor Mitt
Romney. He went out of his way to hurt Donald Trump."

The Conway offensive, which began Thursday on Twitter and continued in her three
television appearances Sunday, led the echo chamber of opposition to the former
2012 Republican presidential nominee. Gingrich said most Trump supporters could
not countenance Romney's selection for any high-profile posting in Trump's new
administration.

"I think we would be enormously disappointed if he brought Mitt Romney into any
position of authority," Gingrich said on Fox News.

But Pence is considered a Romney supporter. And the incoming White House chief
of staff, Reince Priebus, also has a long-standing relationship with Romney
since Priebus served as Republican National Committee chairman during Romney's
unsuccessful 2012 presidential bid.

Infighting over such a prominent position is not unusual. Four years ago,
President Obama faced internal division over his choice to succeed Clinton as
secretary of state, with one possibility being Susan E. Rice, who had been a
longtime Obama confidant. Senate Democrats preferred their colleague John F.
Kerry, and eventually Obama made Rice his national security adviser and gave
Kerry the State Department.

But that internal Democratic feud played out in the traditional Washington
manner - behind closed doors and in anonymous background quotes to news outlets.
Today's Republican battle has been carried out in an unusually public fashion
that left some old Washington hands stunned and wondering whether this would be
the new normal over the next four years.

The Washington Post's Greg Jaffe, Dan Lamothe, Philip Rucker and Elise Viebeck
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             148 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Beacon Hill Roll Call

BYLINE: By Bob Katzen

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 1068 words


THE HOUSE AND SENATE: There were no roll calls in the House or Senate last week.

A big topic of discussion last week in the Bay State and across the nation was
whether the president of the United States should be elected by popular vote or
through the current Electoral College system. Last week, U.S. Rep. Charlie
Rangel (D-NY) and U.S. Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-CA) proposed constitutional
amendments in Congress that would abolish the Electoral College.

The president and vice president are not actually elected directly by the voters
but rather by "electors" who are elected by popular vote from each state. There
are 538 electors with each state assigned electoral votes equal to the number of
its members of Congress. The 538 electors, correspond to the 435
representatives, the 100 senators, plus three electors for the District of
Columbia. Electors are chosen by political parties and pledge to vote for the
winner of the state's popular vote. The candidate who wins 270 or more electoral
votes wins the presidency.

Current results from this year give Donald Trump 290 electoral votes and Hillary
Clinton 232. Michigan has not yet completed its tally so it is not certain where
those 16 electoral votes will go. In the popular vote, although official results
have not been announced, Clinton by most counts seems to be ahead of Trump at
this point by anywhere from 1.5 to 2.5 million votes.

One of the key roadblocks to abolishing the Electoral College is that it would
require a constitutional amendment that is either proposed by two-thirds of each
house of Congress or by a constitutional convention that would be called if 34
states requested it. In both cases, the proposed amendment would then have to be
ratified by 38 states to become part of the Constitution. Both avenues are
difficult, at best.

Fair Vote is a group with the goal of electing the president by popular vote
without abolishing the Electoral College but rather by creation of an unusual
pact between the states.

The Bay State in 2010 joined this pact -- the Agreement among the States to
Elect the President by National Popular Vote. It would require states that join
the pact to cast all their electoral votes for the presidential candidate who
wins a majority of the national popular vote in all 50 states and the District
of Columbia. The pact would become effective when states representing at least
270 electoral votes -- a majority of the 538-vote Electoral College -- join the
pact. It is an attempt at an end-run around the Constitution.

Every four years there is talk nationally about abolishing the Electoral College
and electing the president by the national popular vote. The talk intensifies
each time a candidate who wins the popular vote loses the election. This has
occurred five times in history -- the most two recent being this year and in
2000 when Al Gore won 543,895 more popular votes than George W. Bush but was
beaten by Bush in the Electoral College by a razor-thin 271 to 266 margin. In
the end, it was the recount in Florida in which Bush beat Gore by 537 votes that
decided the race. The three other races in which this occurred were in 1824,
1876, and 1888.

Pact supporters say the law will pass constitutional muster because the
Constitution gives the states complete power to determine how to allocate their
electoral votes. Opponents argue that the Compact Clause of the Constitution
requires congressional approval of the pact before it could take effect. The
pact would likely be challenged in the courts if and when it has enough states
to guarantee 270 electoral votes to the winner of the popular vote.

According to Fair Vote's website, the pact has been signed into law in the
District of Columbia and 10 states possessing 165 electoral votes -- 61 percent
of the 270 electoral votes needed to activate the legislation.

Supporters of the pact say the Electoral College is an antiquated system that is
inherently undemocratic and gives voters in states with large numbers of
electoral votes more voting power than those in other states. Some opponents say
that the Electoral College is a good system that has worked well and should not
be changed. They argue it gives voters in smaller states power that they would
not have if the president was elected strictly by a popular vote system in which
candidates would concentrate on states with larger populations.

Stay tuned.

ALSO ON BEACON HILL

REQUIRE INSURERS TO COVER LIPODYSTROPHY (S 2137): A new law that took effect on
Nov. 8 requires insurance companies to provide coverage for the treatment of
lipodystrophy, a medical condition that can cause abnormal fat accumulation
around the head and neck or excessive fat loss in the face and limbs.
Lipodystrophy is associated with frequent injections at the same point on the
body, such as injections of insulin.

ALLOW TOWING FROM "PARK AND DRIVE" LOTS (S 2452): A law that allows operators of
state-owned "Park and Drive" parking lots to tow any car that is left unattended
in the lot for more than 21 days took effect on Nov. 16.

BAN DISCRIMINATION IN ORGAN TRANSPLANTS (H 4332): The House and Senate approved
and sent to the governor a proposal prohibiting consideration of a patient's
intellectual or physical disability when determining who is eligible for an
organ transplant and who should be highest on the waiting list. The measure
allows the disability to be considered only if it is determined to be medically
significant in a negative way to the transplant.

MBTA HAS UNCOLLECTED BILLS: An audit of the MBTA from July 1, 2012, through June
30, 2015, by State Auditor Suzanne Bump's office found that the MBTA has
$1,863,103 in uncollected accounts receivable for which it has not been paid.
Half of those are more than a decade past due.

MBTA Director of Communications Joe Pesaturo said, "... the MBTA has been
actively working to reform its finances and operations to improve the
reliability of the system for riders and taxpayers, correcting bad practices and
closely examining all contracts to identify millions of dollars in savings
opportunities."

MONEY FOR AIDS AND HEPATITIS (H 3960): The House approved and sent to the Senate
a bill that expands the use of a fund currently used for AIDS prevention and
reduction. It would allow its use on programs for HIV or viral hepatitis
prevention and treatment.

During the week of Nov. 21-25, the House met for 32 minutes while the Senate met
for34 minutes.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             149 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Rep. Price and former labor secretary Chao picked for Cabinet

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: TOP

LENGTH: 754 words


NEW YORK (AP) -- President-elect Donald Trump made two Cabinet selections on
Tuesday, choosing fierce Obamacare critic Georgia Rep. Tom Price to lead the
Department of Health and Human Services, and Elaine Chao, who served in the
Cabinet of George W. Bush, to serve as the secretary of the Department of
Transportation.

Trump announced his choice of Price, while the selection of Chao, the wife of
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, was confirmed by a person with knowledge
of the decision but not authorized to speak publicly.

Price is "exceptionally qualified" to lead an effort to repeal and replace
President Barack Obama's health care law, Trump said in a statement. The
president-elect's transition team did not immediately respond to questions about
the congressman's past commitment to transform Medicare into a voucher-like
system, a position at odds with Trump's repeated campaign promises not to cut
the popular health care program that serves an estimated 57 million people.

"Chairman Price, a renowned physician, has earned a reputation for being a
tireless problem solver and the go-to expert on health care policy, making him
the ideal choice to serve in this capacity," Trump said.

Chao led the Department of Labor for several years under Bush.

The president-elect appeared to still be torn over his choice for secretary of
state. He summoned former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney to New York for dinner
Tuesday night to discuss the post for a second time. He was also meeting with
Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, who is getting new attention from Trump's team. On Monday, Trump
spent an hour with retired Gen. David Petraeus, another contender.

Trump's decision to consider Romney for the powerful Cabinet post has sparked a
public backlash from some of his closest aides and allies. Campaign manager
Kellyanne Conway has warned that it would be a "betrayal" to Trump supporters if
he selected Romney, who was a severe critic of the president-elect during the
campaign.

Even as he weighed crucial Cabinet decisions, Trump appeared distracted by
outside issues -- or eager to create distractions himself. He took to Twitter
early Tuesday to declare that "nobody should be allowed to burn the American
flag." He warned that those who do should face "perhaps loss of citizenship or
year in jail!"

Trump offered no context for his message. The Supreme Court has ruled that flag
burning is protected by the First Amendment.

The president-elect spent the weekend tweeting his opposition to recount efforts
in up to three states led by Green Party candidate Jill Stein and joined by
Hillary Clinton's team. He also falsely claimed that millions of people had
voted illegally in the presidential election and provided no evidence to back up
the charge.

Trump won praise from Republicans Tuesday for his pick of Price to serve as
health and human services secretary. A six-term congressman and orthopedic
surgeon, Price has been a leading critic of Obama's health care law. If
confirmed by the Senate, he would be a leading figure in Republican efforts to
repeal the measure.

Incoming Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said Price "has proven to be far
out of the mainstream of what Americans want" for programs that help seniors,
women, families and those with disabilities. His nomination, Schumer said, is
"akin to asking the fox to guard the henhouse."

Trump's team also announced Tuesday that Seema Verma has been chosen to be
administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

Jason Miller, a transition team spokesman, said at least one other Cabinet post
would be announced in the afternoon. He did not elaborate.

Transition aides said Trump was likely at least a few days away from a decision
on secretary of state. Romney has support from Vice President-elect Mike Pence,
who is heading the transition effort.

Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a loyal Trump ally, was initially seen
as the leading contender to helm the State Department. But questions about his
overseas business dealings, as well as his public campaigning for the job, have
given Trump pause.

Trump is now said to be considering Giuliani to head the Homeland Security
Department, according to those close to the transition process.

------

Peoples reported from Washington. AP writers Julie Pace and Ricardo
Alonso-Zaldivar in Washington and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.

------

Follow Julie Pace at http://twitter.com/jpaceDC and
http://twitter.com/catherine--lucey

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             150 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Trump summons Romney for 2nd look as staffers squabble

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 786 words


NEW YORK (AP) -- Donald Trump's hunt for a secretary of state is veering into
dramatic terrain, with the president-elect summoning Mitt Romney back for a
second look as a top aide leads a public pressure campaign against the pick.

Trump has a follow-up meeting Tuesday with the 2012 GOP presidential nominee,
who has become a symbol of the internal divisions agitating the transition team.
He also plans to sit with Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, the chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee. On Monday, Trump spent an hour with retired Gen.
David Petraeus, a new contender.

Aides were divided over Trump's choices, particularly the prospect that Trump
could tap Romney for the top-tier diplomatic post. In an unusual public airing
of internal machinations, Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway on Sunday warned
that the president-elect's supporters would feel "betrayed" if he tapped Romney
as secretary of state.

Exiting Trump Tower on Monday night, Vice President-elect Mike Pence simply
teased "a number of very important announcements tomorrow."

On Tuesday morning, the Trump transition team announced the selection of Georgia
Rep. Tom Price to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. It also
announced that Seema Verma has been chosen to be administrator of the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

While other staffing decisions were being made, the search for secretary of
state was still underway. Petraeus said he spent about an hour with the
president-elect and praised him for showing a "great grasp of a variety of the
challenges that are out there."

The former CIA chief pleaded guilty last year to a misdemeanor charge of
mishandling classified information relating to documents he had provided to his
biographer, with whom he was having an affair.

Pence, who is heading the transition effort, is said to be among those backing
Romney for secretary of state. Romney was fiercely critical of Trump throughout
the campaign but is interested in the Cabinet position, and they discussed it
during a lengthy meeting earlier this month.

Other top Trump allies, notably Conway, have launched a highly unusual public
campaign against a Romney nomination. Conway's comments stirred speculation that
she is seeking either to force Trump's hand or give him cover for ultimately
passing over Romney.

Three people close to the transition team said Trump had been aware that Conway
planned to voice her opinion, both on Twitter and in television interviews. They
disputed reports that Trump was furious at her and suggested his decision to
consider additional candidates instead highlighted her influence.

Trump is said to have offered Conway a choice of White House jobs -- either
press secretary or communications director. But people with knowledge of
Conway's plans say she is more interested in serving as an outside political
adviser, akin to the role President Barack Obama's campaign manager David
Plouffe played following the 2008 election.

Trump was considering former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani to head the
Homeland Security Department, according to those close to the transition
process. Giuliani was initially the front-runner for secretary of state and is
still in the mix. But questions about his overseas business dealings, as well as
his public campaigning for the job, have given Trump pause.

Those close to the transition insisted on anonymity in commenting because they
were not authorized to publicly discuss the private process.

In addition to the public staffing spat, the campaign was forced Monday to
defend Trump's baseless assertions of illegal voting, made in angry response to
a recount effort.

That effort, led by Green Party candidate Jill Stein and joined by Hillary
Clinton's campaign, marched on in three states, based partly on the Stein
campaign's unsubstantiated assertion that cyber-hacking could have interfered
with electronic voting machines. Wisconsin officials approved plans to begin a
recount as early as Thursday. Stein also asked for a recount in Pennsylvania and
was expected to do the same in Michigan, where officials certified Trump's
victory Monday.

Trump has denounced the recounts and now claims without evidence that he, not
Clinton, would have won the popular vote if it hadn't been for "millions of
people who voted illegally." On Twitter, he singled out Virginia, California and
New Hampshire.

There has been no indication of widespread election tampering or voter fraud in
those states or any others. Trump aides struggled Monday to back up their boss'
claim.

------

Pace reported from Washington. AP writer Jonathan Lemire contributed to this
report.

------

Follow Julie Pace at http://twitter.com/jpaceDC and
http://twitter.com/catherine--lucey

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             151 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Trump says he's leaving businesses to avoid conflicts

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 710 words


WASHINGTON (AP) -- President-elect Donald Trump said Wednesday he's leaving his
business empire to focus on being the nation's 45th president, declaring he can
successfully avoid conflicts of interest between governing and profiting in the
private sector.

"I will be leaving my great business in total in order to fully focus on running
the country in order to make America great again," he tweeted in a series of
missives sent before dawn. "While I am not mandated to do this under the law, I
feel it is visually important, as president, to in no way have a conflict of
interest with my various businesses."

Trump did not provide any details about how he planned to separate from his
businesses, though he said legal documents were being prepared. He has
previously said that he'd leave his business operations to his three eldest
children -- Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka.

Ethics experts have pushed for Trump to fully exit the ownership of his
businesses using a blind trust or equivalent arrangement.

"Otherwise he will have a personal financial interest in his businesses that
will sometimes conflict with the public interest and constantly raise
questions," Norman Eisen, President Barack Obama's chief ethics lawyer, and
Richard Painter, who held the same post for President George W. Bush, said in a
joint statement Wednesday.

Trump was also moving forward with his Cabinet selections, choosing former
Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as treasury secretary and billionaire
investor Wilbur Ross for commerce secretary.

Mnuchin, 53, led Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign.
But he has no government experience, which could prove a political hurdle. If
confirmed by the Senate, Mnuchin would play a central role in shaping Trump's
tax policies and infrastructure plans. He would also lead an agency tasked with
implementing international economic sanctions.

Arriving at Trump Tower Wednesday morning for meetings, Mnuchin said the
administration planned "the most significant middle income tax cut since
Reagan." He also called for lowering corporate taxes to encourage companies to
stay in the United States.

Trump was accompanying his decision to line his Cabinet with financial industry
insiders with an announcement that the air conditioning giant Carrier Corp.
planned to keep nearly 1,000 jobs in Indiana instead of moving them to Mexico.
Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence, the outgoing Indiana governor,
planned an event with Carrier officials Thursday to announce the plan.

Details of the agreement were unclear. Trump spent much of his campaign pledging
to keep companies like Carrier from moving jobs overseas, relying on the skills
he used in business.

Trump's sprawling business empire is unprecedented for a sitting president, as
is the complexity and opaqueness of his financial holdings. He refused to
release his taxes during the campaign, citing an ongoing audit, and will be
under no legal obligation to do so in the White House.

Trump owns golf clubs, office towers and other properties in several countries.
He holds ownership stakes in more than 500 companies. He has struck licensing
deals for use of his name on hotels and other buildings around the world and has
been landing new business in the Middle East, India and South America.

Reince Priebus, Trump's incoming White House chief of staff, was vague Wednesday
in describing how the president-elect planned to separate himself from his
businesses, saying "that'll all be worked out."

Priebus told MSNBC's "Morning Joe," that Trump has "got the best people in
America working on it." Priebus demurred when asked if Trump planned to put his
businesses in a blind trust -- as presidents have traditionally done -- or leave
them in his children's hands.

"I'm not ready to reveal that really," Priebus said.

Priebus added that Trump's business acumen and the many interests he has as a
result of it are "nothing to be ashamed about." He said the country hasn't seen
a president with such business holdings before and the rules and regulations
"don't contemplate this scenario."

------

AP writers Julie Bykowicz and Catherine Lucey contributed to this report.

------

Follow Julie Pace at http://twitter.com/jpaceDC and Laurie Kellman at
http://twitter.com/APLaurieKellman

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             152 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    The Evening Sun (Hanover, Pennsylvania)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Palmyra parents ask school board member to resign

BYLINE: By, Merriell Moyer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 631 words


Palmyra school board member Ralph Duquette was asked to step down from the board
by parents concerned about inflammatory comments he made on social media, mostly
regarding politics.

Kris Keck and Cynthia Lyons, both parents in the school district and coaches on
the Palmyra swim team, first went public with concerns at the board's voting
meeting Nov. 10. Other parents voiced their concerns Thursday.

"As a member of the school board your role is to represent and look out for the
best interest of the student, faculty and community members of this district,"
Antounette "Toni" Shughart, a concerned parent, said. "The people here tonight
are not upset with your choice of presidential candidate as your tweets imply,
but we are disturbed with your language and intimidation tactics used on social
media."

A few members of the audience pointed to Duquette's right to free speech under
the First Amendment.

"Yes there is freedom of speech in our country, but as an elected official it is
your responsibility, while serving the community and the students of this
district, to maintain an ethical, positive role," Shughart said.

Other parents echoed Shughart's comments, and the group asked Duquette to step
down from his position.

Parents were concerned about Duquette tweeting profanities and their children
seeing them online.

"You cannot name a single kid that I follow on Twitter," Duquette said.

A teenage boy tweeted at Duquette during the school day, and he admitted that he
responded.

"Your son sending me a tweet during the school day I found problematic, and yes
I told him he should put down the phone and get back to class," Duquette said.
"I told your kid to get back to school because I believe that is where he should
be - he should paying attention in class."

Duquette's Twitter account is not connected to the school district, nor to the
Palmyra area, he said.

Duquette did not resign, and Christopher Connell, the board president, announced
to the audience that the board had no way of reprimanding or removing Duquette
from the board as some had asked the board to do.

Earlier in the meeting, Duquette announced that he had filed a Title IX
complaint with the Pennsylvania Board of Education's Office of Civil Rights
(OCR), and he felt that may have played a role in his social media habits
becoming a topic.

"I can't discount this as retaliation," he said. "But I do realize that, as a
Democrat, I snuck onto the school board three years ago. I have questioned them.
I have challenged them. I have annoyed them."

Duquette told the board in June that he had contacted the OCR regarding Title IX
deficiencies in the school district, but he didn't move forward with a complaint
until September he said.

Title IX protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs
or activities that receive federal financial assistance. Some key areas that
Title IX covers include recruitment, admissions and counseling; financial
assistance; athletics; sex-based harassment; treatment of pregnant and parenting
students; discipline; single-sex education; and employment, according to the
U.S. Department of Education website.

"I'm not asking for any personal identifying information of students involved in
sexual assault case, or anything like that," Duquette said in an interview
before the board meeting. "What I want the district to do - are they doing the
things that they are supposed to do."

He pointed at deficiencies in the school district's Title IX compliance with
regard to some basic information being made available to the public such as the
name and contact information of the Title IX coordinator, which are currently
left blank on the school's official documents.

However the school district website does have that information available under a
topic list of who to call.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hes


                         Copyright 2016 The Evening Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                             153 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    The Evening Sun (Hanover, Pennsylvania)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Businesses look ahead following election

BYLINE: By, Lillian Reed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 420 words


If Hanover businesses want legislators to evaluate regulations affecting their
industry, now is the time to say so.

That was the advice given to a room of Hanover's community leaders Friday by Bob
Reilly, the deputy chief of staff for U.S. Rep. Scott Perry, R-Carroll Township.

About 30 business owners and elected officials gathered at Dutch Country
restaurant in Penn Township Friday to talk about the relationship between
government and business. The quarterly event, which is organized by the Hanover
Chamber of Commerce, is designed to open the lines of communication between the
two groups.

The round table discussion Friday focused on the results of the 2016
presidential, county and state elections and how the outcome might affect local
businesses, education and the Hanover community.

Bipartisan cooperation will be necessary to accomplish any political goals in
the coming years, Reilly said. He pointed to President Barack Obama's use of
executive orders to establish policy instead of compromising with legislators.

"We can't make the mistake President Obama did with the executive orders," he
said. "We have to learn that we can disagree on these issues."

Since Donald Trump won the presidential election at the beginning of November,
local businesses have been looking ahead at some of the president-elect's
campaign promises, which were outlined in the 100-day plan he delivered in
Gettysburg on Nov. 10.

One of Trump's proposed requirements was that for every new federal regulation,
two existing regulations must be eliminated.

Reilly pointed to the Affordable Health Care Act and the recent change to the
Fair Labor Standard Act's overtime pay requirement, which he said many local
businesses have asked him about, as regulations that could be re-evaluated in
the coming term.

In addition to Reilly's talk, elected officials such as Pennsylvania State Rep.
Kate Klunk (R-Hanover) and Rep. Will Tallman (R - Adams/Cumberland) debriefed
the crowd on some of their goals and hopes for the state budget in 2017.

Both representatives took questions from the business community members, which
covered topics such as supporting Pennsylvania's children and youth services,
stimulating commercial investments and reforming government pensions.

Klunk was adamant that even if changes in spending and regulations are made on a
federal level, work would still have to be done at the state level as well.

"We work very, very well together between York and Adams counties," Klunk said.
"We get a lot done when we work together."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hes


                         Copyright 2016 The Evening Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                             154 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    The Evening Sun (Hanover, Pennsylvania)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

History of voter turnout

BYLINE: By, Gary Haber

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 151 words


Donald Trump won York County by a wide margin Tuesday, drawing many voters to
the polls.

Voter turnout in the county topped 70 percent.

Here's a look at local turnout in previous presidential elections going back to
2000.

Voter turnout in York County for presidential elections:

How did Adams County vote in 2016?

Donald Trump won Adams County by a landslide in this year's presidential
election with almost 66 percent of the votes, 31,249 in total.

Hillary Clinton lagged behind with only 30 percent of the vote, 14,077 in total.

Gary Johnson, the Libertarian candidate, won 1,222 votes for almost 3 percent of
the voter share in Adams County.

Darrell Castle and Jill Stein, together, almost captured two percent of the
votes.

And surprisingly, write-in votes accounted for more than one percent of the
votes in Adams County with 490.

In total, 47,628 people voted in Adams County in this year's presidential
election.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hes


                         Copyright 2016 The Evening Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                             155 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    The Evening Sun (Hanover, Pennsylvania)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

A bigger problem than a wage gap

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 477 words


To all females: There is no wage gap, but there's a gap that can close it, a
skill gap. Because of females securing less valuable degrees, of little to no
importance of progressing one's career, so in short here's what you need to do
to fix this gap. Get a better degree/trade, there are many male dominated trades
in which ceilings need broken. Welders need more females for their smaller and
more precise hands, STEM is really growing and needs more female jobs.

You women can go out here and make a living for yourselves, even if the path you
choose is male dominated, you can succeed in there you must put your mind to it,
and that is all I have to say.

Xander O'Donnell

Jackson Township

Hillary lost, get over it

What is wrong with this country? This election wasn't about Republicans voting
for Donald Trump. Didn't you read the Republican Party refused to support him
and demanded that he drop out of the race? This election was about people, who
have had enough of our politicians, Republican and Democrats not representing
us. If they were representing us, they would not have their own retirement and
medical benefits program, paid by us, they would be on Social Security and
Medicare

While many of you are demonstrating and rioting against Donald Trump, your
leader, who said she was for, "coming together," instead of thanking her people
for their support and asking them to stop the rioting and get to work bringing
our country together, she is blaming the FBI for causing her to lose the
election.

Like her husband, "I never had sex with that woman," Bill Clinton, she refuses
to accept responsibility for her inability to act in Benghazi, deleting her
emails to cover up her mistakes and then lying about it. This is not the kind of
leader this country needs.

Wake up and smell what she is shoveling! Remember, she didn't support the women
her husband seduced when he was president. These poor women were being abused by
a man and Hillary should have been protecting them.

The election is over and Hillary didn't win. Get over it!

Robert Hollinger

York

Drop out of

the Electoral College

We need to get rid of the Electoral College.

Twice in the last five presidential elections the person with more popular votes
was not declared the winner. Al Gore had more votes than George W. Bush, Hillary
Clinton had more votes than Donald Trump.

This anachronism was instituted by the founding fathers as a sop to the smaller
states. But these states already have an advantage in having the same number of
senators as the larger states.

In Wyoming, there is one electoral vote for every 194,000 people. In
Pennsylvania, it's one electoral vote for every 638,000 people. This means
Wyoming's votes are three times as important as Pennsylvania's. What happened to
"one man, one vote"?

This shouldn't be a partisan issue, it's a matter of fairness.

Turk Pierce

Springettsbury Township

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hes


                         Copyright 2016 The Evening Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                             156 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    The Evening Sun (Hanover, Pennsylvania)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Chastain enters the political fray

BYLINE: By, Andrea Mandell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 507 words


Beverly Hills, Calif. - After a contentious election, "Miss Sloane" arrives rife
with lessons on cloudy American politics.

In the new political thriller (in select theaters in Los Angeles and New York,
expands nationwide Dec. 9), Jessica Chastain takes the reins as the ferociously
intelligent (fictional) Republican lobbyist Elizabeth Sloane, who ditches a
high-profile job to push a bill restricting firearm sales through Congress.

"It's not interested in lecturing anyone," says the actress, curling up on a
couch at the Four Seasons. She says "Miss Sloane," which reveals the
sausage-making on (and off) Capitol Hill, could just as easily have used an
issue such as climate change or immigration to make its point.

"It just uses that to show an inner world of the American political system and
the fundraising - what it takes to get a bill passed and how corrupt the system
can be when it's led by money," she says.

Chastain, 39, spent pre-production Googling top female lobbyists and walked away
from a trip to Washington with a decidedly different take on Sloane, a character
she presumed would wear little makeup and rotate the same wardrobe day in and
out.

"It was almost naive of me to think that, because there's something about the
way Elizabeth Sloane dresses and about some of the women that I met in D.C.
where they intimidate before they even enter the room," says the actress, whose
character's war paint is dark nail polish and crimson lipstick.

Critics are praising her performance in the film, which has a 72percent positive
rating on the review site Rotten Tomatoes. "Equally icy and savvy, Sloane has no
patience for hippies, naive millennials or the old boys' club, whose glass
ceiling she's pretty much pulverizing with a jackhammer any chance she gets,"
wrote USA TODAY critic Brian Truitt.

The criticism lobbed at Hillary Clinton in the presidential election is top of
mind for the actress. During the debates, "the criticism against Hillary was
that she was overprepared. I never heard in my entire life that a man was
overprepared for anything. I am overprepared in my life," she says. "What's
wrong with being ambitious, being overprepared, being one step ahead?"

Offscreen, Chastain seems ready to recalibrate her fame. The private star has
even started sharing a slice of her personal life via Instagram, selectively
posting occasional shots with her longtime boyfriend, fashion executive Gian
Luca Passi de Preposulo. "Gian Luca and I have been together for such a long
time, we're in it for the long haul," she says.

She's also switching gears after working relentlessly, having just wrapped the
Sitting Bull drama "Woman Walks Ahead" and just started the Aaron
Sorkin-directed "Molly's Game" in Toronto.

"I'm at an interesting point in my life and in my career. A few years ago, I
started to examine where I was in the world and what I was contributing to
society," says Chastain, adding that she's ready to direct and share the
spotlight.

"It becomes like you're eating cake every day. You just want to share the cake!"

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hes


                         Copyright 2016 The Evening Sun
                              All Rights Reserved


                             157 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Religious group believes Trump will keep promises

BYLINE: Laurie Goodstein; The New York Times

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 74

LENGTH: 847 words


Donald Trump rarely goes to church, said he's never sought forgiveness for his
sins, and in his acceptance speech early Wednesday, never mentioned God.

Religion was almost invisible during the presidential campaign, and yet it is
the missing piece in understanding Trump's victory. The Christian right worked
largely under the national media's radar this year, but it helped deliver the
presidency to a thrice-married mogul who bragged about groping women and has
been accused by multiple women of actually doing it.

They were willing to forgive Trump's personal transgressions because he stoked
their fears that a Hillary Clinton administration would take away their
religious liberties, use their tax dollars to fund late-term abortions at home
and abroad, and expand the rights of gay and transgender people, political
analysts said. Trump warned at rallies and at conservative Christian gatherings
that he alone was their last hope to protect them against a changing culture,
using the refrain, "This is your last chance."

Now that he has won, evangelical leaders said they are confident Trump will
deliver on the political promises he made to them. These include appointing a
conservative to the Supreme Court, defunding Planned Parenthood, protecting
businesses that refuse to provide services for same-sex weddings and rescinding
the mandate in the Affordable Care Act that requires insurance coverage for
birth control.

And with Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, an evangelical with a record of legislating
against abortion and same-sex marriage, as vice president, Christian leaders say
they feel reassured they will have access to the White House and a seat at the
table.

"I am confident he will do as president what he said he would do as a
candidate," said Ralph Reed, chairman of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, who
helped mobilize Christian voters for Trump.

White evangelicals and Catholics voted for Trump at even higher rates than they
voted for the last two Republican presidential nominees, John McCain and Mitt
Romney, according to an analysis by the Pew Research Center.

"The wall of white Christian voters held," said Robert P. Jones, chief executive
of the Public Religion Research Institute and author of "The End of White
Christian America."

White evangelicals make up 26 percent of the American electorate, and 81 percent
of them voted for Trump, despite loud criticism by some in their ranks that he
was racist, misogynistic and unfit for the presidency. Only 16 percent voted for
Clinton.

Catholics, who make up 23 percent of the electorate, supported Trump over
Clinton by 52 to 45 percent. White Catholics voted for him in far greater
proportions than Hispanic Catholics, who favored Clinton over Trump, 67 to 26
percent.

"There was no way he had a chance without the pop of that Catholic vote," Reed
said.

Trump was not the first choice of most evangelicals or Catholics. But he
gradually won their trust, speaking at Liberty University in Virginia, the
largest Christian college in the country, doing nine interviews with Pat
Robertson's Christian Broadcasting Network and building relationships with
Pentecostal preachers. In June, he met with nearly 1,000 evangelical and
Catholic leaders from around the country in a hotel ballroom in New York. In
October, he sent a letter to the Catholic Leadership Conference in Denver,
promising, "I will fight for you."

Clinton, in contrast, failed to connect with white evangelicals and Catholics,
said Michael Wear, a political consultant who served as a faith adviser for
President Obama.

"Evangelicals feel embattled, they feel isolated, and Trump understood that and
appealed to them on completely Machiavellian terms. But Hillary actually
confirmed their sense of isolation by not reaching out to them," said Wear, the
author of "Reclaiming Hope: Lessons Learned in the Obama White House About the
Future of Faith in America." "Hillary's lack of outreach basically told
evangelicals, 'You need Trump as much as Trump says you do.'"

As recently as five years ago, Christians were far more judgmental of
politicians accused of transgressions in their personal lives. Now, in the era
of Trump, there is more tolerance, especially among evangelicals, according to a
study by Jones' institute. The group often called "values voters" was not
dissuaded by headlines about Trump sexually harassing women, lying, refusing to
pay taxes or stiffing contractors.

"Trump has really changed their entire political ethic. It's moved from a
principled basis to more of a utilitarian ethic, where the ends justify the
means," Jones said.

There were prominent evangelicals publicly opposed to Trump - a phenomenon that
Reed argued only brought more attention to those who supported him. But now that
Trump is headed for the White House, some of those "Never Trump" evangelicals
are coming around.

Russell Moore, president of the Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission of the
Southern Baptist Convention, said he would "give the new president the benefit
of the doubt." If Nixon could go to China, said Moore, Trump could be a
"unifying figure."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             158 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Don't back off from freedom of global trade

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 557 words

ABSTRACT

FRIDAY MAIN EDIT

FULL TEXT

Campaigning is one thing. Governing, especially at the presidential level is
another. Some know this intuitively. Others learn in a hard school.

Both major party presidential candidates this year came out against the complex
trade pact called the Trans-Pacific Partnership. They knew that, especially for
workers, and out-of-workers, in America's heartland, free trade with other
nations can seem like a fool's bargain. These agreements with low-wage nations
understandably look like an unfair deal that end up destroying American
manufacturing jobs.

It's much easier to say that on the hustings than to go into an eggheady
economic analysis about the efficiencies of world markets raising all boats.

But the fact of the matter is that Hillary Clinton changed her position on the
TPP for strategic reasons after she had supported the trade agreement as
secretary of state.

And one arm of President-elect Donald Trump's business empire sells clothes made
in China and elsewhere in the Far East. He knows better than the rest of us that
slapping a 45 percent tariff on a silk necktie would not make it any easier to
sell.

Nor would doing so be anything like a bargain for the American consumer. Those
incredible deals at Walmart on T-shirts, and dress shirts, made in Bangladesh
and Colombia are made possible by trade agreements such as NAFTA and TPP, which,
by the way, includes thousands of tax cuts for American businesses that would
make trade a better two-way street for our country's exporters as well as
importers.

The benefits of free trade are one of the key elements of international commerce
on which economists on the right, the center and the left all agree. Running the
numbers, it turns out that the best way to increase prosperity in all the
nations of the world is to allow each country's economy to do what it does best.
Chinese companies manufacture iPhones and clothing more efficiently than we do
here. We're a whole lot better, for instance, at postsecondary education - six
of the top 10 universities in the world are American - and at creating
intellectual property, with eight of the top 10 brands, from Apple to Visa,
being American.

The incoming president, in a different role than campaigner, will do well to
continue to fine-tune trade agreements in the American interest rather than
cancel them.

Protectionism is a misnomer- trade wars protect no one, creating equal and
opposite reactions from other countries that would greatly harm American workers
and consumers. And the fact is that presidents on their own can only increase
tariffs 15 percent, and then only for 150 days, unless a state of emergency is
declared, an unlikely scenario.

One clear way for a new administration to increase the efficiencies free trade
creates is to call out China's blatant cheating on some of the agreements in
place, from its subsidizing the price of rice and wheat to its currency
manipulation to its stealing patented ideas to its hacking into our companies'
email systems to its counterfeiting of our brands.

Demanding compliance with current and future trade agreements, rather than
backing away from them or pretending that discredited protectionist policies
would help the average American, is the courageous course the new administration
must take if it wants to ensure prosperity for our nation.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             159 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

An opportunity, not a mandate

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1129 words

ABSTRACT

Brian Calle on election

FULL TEXT


A presidential election victory is not a mandate. In fact, winning a
presidential election never is, despite the opinion of too many pundits. Even
Republican President Ronald Reagan recognized this when he won a landslide
re-election in 1984, winning 49 states and garnering 525 electoral votes.

In the aftermath of that election, Reagan pushed bipartisan support of laws he
signed and ensured his Republican Party worked with Democrats in Congress.

Despite the opinion of some, President-elect Trump's victory is not a mandate,
either, and not because he lost the popular vote or because we are coming out of
the most divisive election cycle in modern history, where many in the country
are viewing his imminent presidency with a great deal of skepticism and concern.
It's because when a president or a political party treats any one election as a
mandate and overreaches, it quickly loses the reins of power.

After his historic 2008 victory, President Obama had the wind at his back.
Democrats regained the presidency after eight years and held majorities in both
the Senate and the House of Representatives. His party was unified and poised
for potentially unparalleled legislative achievement, believing that the country
had endorsed an ambitious progressive agenda.

Early in his presidential tenure, Obama pushed what would ultimately become his
signature legislative achievement - the Affordable Care Act (colloquially
referred to as Obamacare). It was pushed through Congress without a single
Republican vote in either the House or the Senate, in the face of widespread
public opposition to the legislation.

That single action started a chain of events, beginning with a revolt by voters
in 2010, costing President Obama's Democratic Party to lose its majority in the
House and drop six seats in the Senate. It is also what spawned the Tea Party,
and, thus, the beginnings of an early base of support for Trump, a political
figure who personifies all that Obama demonized.

Ever since, Obama has had a combative relationship with Congress devoid of
mutual trust or admiration. Republicans in Congress bear some of the blame, as
they refused to work with Obama.

The result is unfortunate: Since 2010, President Obama has had no other major
legislative achievements. Contrast that with former Presidents Bill Clinton and
Reagan - both who faced Congresses controlled by the opposition party - and you
will see a stark contrast in approach and, thus, accomplishment. In fact, Reagan
had a rule that he would not sign a bill into law without at least some
Democratic support, and Clinton's penchant for political deal-making was the
hallmark of his success as president.

For the last six years in Washington, compromise was replaced with contempt.
Polarization has overtaken collaboration and it's become more politically
expedient to bash political opponents than to find common ground.

President Obama's response to the gridlock was to attempt to legislate by fiat,
that is, to use executive orders to sidestep a Congress that he chastised as
being controlled by the "Party of no." As Marc Thiessen wrote for the Washington
Post, "The reason Obama's legacy is so vulnerable today is that the 44th
president relied more on executive actions - issuing not only executive orders,
but also a record number of rules, regulations and agency directives to
legislate around Congress and impose his agenda."

Thiessen also recalled: "After he lost control of the Senate in 2014, Obama
announced at his first Cabinet meeting: 'We're not just going to be waiting for
legislation. ... I've got a pen and I've got a phone. And I can use that pen to
sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that
move the ball forward.'"

What this means, though, is on Day One in office, President Trump could undo
every single one of the actions Obama made with his pen and phone. That's why
the role of the president is not that of a legislator, but instead a
collaborative role that must persuade and work with Congress to pass legislation
by a large enough margin that the next president and Congress will not undo it.

Now Trump, winning an even more alienating campaign than either of the two that
Obama won, must grapple with the realities of governing an even more divided
country. The Republican Party will control the White House, the Senate and the
House of Representatives, but if it overreaches it will face the same kind of
backlash Democrats and President Obama felt in the 2010 and 2014 elections.

Brian Calle is opinion editor for the Southern California News Group.

proach and, thus, accomplishment. In fact, Reagan had a rule that he would not
sign a bill into law without at least some Democratic support, and Clinton's
penchant for political deal-making was the hallmark of his success as president.

For the last six years in Washington, compromise was replaced with contempt.
Polarization has overtaken collaboration and it's become more politically
expedient to bash political opponents than to find common ground.

President Obama's response to the gridlock was to attempt to legislate by fiat,
that is, to use executive orders to sidestep a Congress that he chastised as
being controlled by the "Party of no." As Marc Thiessen wrote for the Washington
Post, "The reason Obama's legacy is so vulnerable today is that the 44th
president relied more on executive actions - issuing not only executive orders,
but also a record number of rules, regulations and agency directives to
legislate around Congress and impose his agenda."

Thiessen also recalled: "After he lost control of the Senate in 2014, Obama
announced at his first Cabinet meeting: 'We're not just going to be waiting for
legislation. ... I've got a pen and I've got a phone. And I can use that pen to
sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that
move the ball forward.'"

What this means, though, is on Day One in office, President Trump could undo
every single one of the actions Obama made with his pen and phone. That's why
the role of the president is not that of a legislator, but instead a
collaborative role that must persuade and work with Congress to pass legislation
by a large enough margin that the next president and Congress will not undo it.

Now Trump, winning an even more alienating campaign than either of the two that
Obama won, must grapple with the realities of governing an even more divided
country. The Republican Party will control the White House, the Senate and the
House of Representatives, but if it overreaches it will face the same kind of
backlash Democrats and President Obama felt in the 2010 and 2014 elections.

Brian Calle is opinion editor for the Southern California News Group.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             160 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Five ideas to make America greater

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1685 words


Donald Trump's presidential campaign was based on the notion that he could "Make
America Great Again." But beyond the rhetoric - sometimes lurching into
demagoguery - the newly elected president comes to office, as one commentator
suggests, "the least policy-savvy president in history."

To succeed, Trump must adopt innovative policies that transcend traditional
right-left divides. He needs to find ways to help his heavily white,
working-class base while expanding his appeal to minorities, millennials and
educated people who are now largely horrified by his ascendency.

In the short run, his biggest problem may lie with his own Republican Party
establishment, which, rather than "drain the swamp," would simply like to create
one of its own. The looming presence of corporate lobbyists, swarming around the
administration like hungry flies, is not encouraging at all, nor are GOP
congressional plans to re-establish "earmarks."

The key lies not in empowering a different set of K Street parasites, but rather
in reversing income stagnation. If he cannot, his triumph may prove to be no
more consequential than an absurdist, Latin American-style telenovela.

A flatter, fairer tax

The basic instinct among many Republicans tends toward reducing taxes on their
richest donors and making life easier for the ultrarich, including some on
Trump's economic team. Trump's imperative should, instead, be to make the tax
system fairer for the middle and working classes. One way would be to make a
graduated flat tax that would mean that the rich, who make most of their money
from investments, pay the same rate for capital gains as the rest of us do for
income.

Democrats will, no doubt, still charge Trump with being "unfair," but, as Ronald
Reagan proved 20 years ago, Americans support incentives for work if they don't
unfairly tilt conditions to the ultrarich. Main Street business owners, the most
hostile constituency to the Obama administration's policies, pay taxes based on
their income and can't manipulate the system like Apple, Google, Wall Streeters
or, for that matter, real estate developers like Trump himself.

A middle ground for immigration

Opposition to illegal immigration helped drive the Trump campaign early on, but,
outside of the GOP base, there is little support for a mass roundup of the
undocumented. The vast majority of Americans, over 70 percent, also oppose "open
borders." After all, even President Obama evicted 2 million people during his
two terms in office.

Trump also can begin reordering our immigration policies toward skilled workers
who are interested in becoming citizens. At the same time, Trump could score
points by undermining the H1-B visa program, which allows Silicon Valley firms,
along with corporations like Disney and Southern California Edison, to lay off
American workers and replace them with temporary indentured servants.

Unleash the energy industry

Much of the growth in America during the first six years of the Obama
administration came from energy, which added 500,000 jobs between 2004 and 2014,
much of them concentrated in the Trumpian heartland of the upper Midwest,
Appalachia and the Texas-Oklahoma-Louisiana "oil patch." Now, under pressure
from low prices, Trump may consider ways to encourage our domestic producers.

Since he is not a free trade ideologue, Trump could position his policy as one
way to keep from being dependent on lunatic Middle Eastern states - or even his
good friend Vladimir Putin. The energy industry and manufacturing, unlike high
tech, employ large numbers of not only of white, working-class people, but also
Latinos and African Americans, and generally at high wages.

Localism

This election proved how deeply divided Americans are, both by class and
geography. The fearful reaction on the Left to Trump's election reveals how
dependent our politics have become on the "imperial presidency." One way to
defuse the worry would be to cede more control from Washington to the
localities.

We should let the leaders of the "Left Coast," if they so wish, wear green
energy hair shirts, legalize marijuana, boost the minimum wage dramatically,
suppress suburban housing and dictate transgender bathrooms. If the middle of
the country does not want to follow suit, that's just fine, as long as they
protect basic human rights. A country as diverse and divided cannot be
effectively ruled by a central government that goes increasingly into areas that
were once largely controlled locally.

Infrastructure

To succeed, Trump must look as much to the model of Franklin D. Roosevelt as
Ronald Reagan. A large basic infrastructure plan - long the purview of the
federal government - would employ many blue-collar workers, including many
minorities. This stimulus should be directed to those areas and industries more
open to his administration, such as trucking, warehousing, energy and basic
manufacturing. Much of the work should be in the areas that backed Trump - the
South, where growth is strongest, and also in the Midwest and Great Plains,
where much of the basic road, bridge and energy infrastructure is outdated.

Ultimately, Trump's success depends on securing the economic interests of his
core supporters. To expand his coalition, he needs show how his program helps
not just his core base but also broader parts of the population who likewise
have felt short-changed in this economy, and deserve a better future.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

to be no more consequential than an absurdist, Latin American-style telenovela.

A flatter, fairer tax

The basic instinct among many Republicans tends toward reducing taxes on their
richest donors and making life easier for the ultrarich, including some on
Trump's economic team. Trump's imperative should, instead, be to make the tax
system fairer for the middle and working classes. One way would be to make a
graduated flat tax that would mean that the rich, who make most of their money
from investments, pay the same rate for capital gains as the rest of us do for
income.

Democrats will, no doubt, still charge Trump with being "unfair," but, as Ronald
Reagan proved 20 years ago, Americans support incentives for work if they don't
unfairly tilt conditions to the ultrarich. Main Street business owners, the most
hostile constituency to the Obama administration's policies, pay taxes based on
their income and can't manipulate the system like Apple, Google, Wall Streeters
or, for that matter, real estate developers like Trump himself.

A middle ground for immigration

Opposition to illegal immigration helped drive the Trump campaign early on, but,
outside of the GOP base, there is little support for a mass roundup of the
undocumented. The vast majority of Americans, over 70 percent, also oppose "open
borders." After all, even President Obama evicted 2 million people during his
two terms in office.

Trump also can begin reordering our immigration policies toward skilled workers
who are interested in becoming citizens. At the same time, Trump could score
points by undermining the H1-B visa program, which allows Silicon Valley firms,
along with corporations like Disney and Southern California Edison, to lay off
American workers and replace them with temporary indentured servants.

Unleash the energy industry

Much of the growth in America during the first six years of the Obama
administration came from energy, which added 500,000 jobs between 2004 and 2014,
much of them concentrated in the Trumpian heartland of the upper Midwest,
Appalachia and the Texas-Oklahoma-Louisiana "oil patch." Now, under pressure
from low prices, Trump may consider ways to encourage our domestic producers.

Since he is not a free trade ideologue, Trump could position his policy as one
way to keep from being dependent on lunatic Middle Eastern states - or even his
good friend Vladimir Putin. The energy industry and manufacturing, unlike high
tech, employ large numbers of not only of white, working-class people, but also
Latinos and African Americans, and generally at high wages.

Localism

This election proved how deeply divided Americans are, both by class and
geography. The fearful reaction on the Left to Trump's election reveals how
dependent our politics have become on the "imperial presidency." One way to
defuse the worry would be to cede more control from Washington to the
localities.

We should let the leaders of the "Left Coast," if they so wish, wear green
energy hair shirts, legalize marijuana, boost the minimum wage dramatically,
suppress suburban housing and dictate transgender bathrooms. If the middle of
the country does not want to follow suit, that's just fine, as long as they
protect basic human rights. A country as diverse and divided cannot be
effectively ruled by a central government that goes increasingly into areas that
were once largely controlled locally.

Infrastructure

To succeed, Trump must look as much to the model of Franklin D. Roosevelt as
Ronald Reagan. A large basic infrastructure plan - long the purview of the
federal government - would employ many blue-collar workers, including many
minorities. This stimulus should be directed to those areas and industries more
open to his administration, such as trucking, warehousing, energy and basic
manufacturing. Much of the work should be in the areas that backed Trump - the
South, where growth is strongest, and also in the Midwest and Great Plains,
where much of the basic road, bridge and energy infrastructure is outdated.

Ultimately, Trump's success depends on securing the economic interests of his
core supporters. To expand his coalition, he needs show how his program helps
not just his core base but also broader parts of the population who likewise
have felt short-changed in this economy, and deserve a better future.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             161 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Dems should resist urge to go farther left

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 651 words


Democrats are afraid, and not just of President-elect Donald Trump.

After years spent preparing for a Clinton presidency under the illusion that
culture war politics conquered all, they now fear that Republicans - who control
32 state legislatures and counting - will act as if their only opposition clings
to a strip of coastline along the Atlantic and the Pacific. But in the Golden
State, where Democrats reign supreme, a parallel universe is setting in. Rather
than moderating their rule to encourage Republicans nationwide to seek common
ground, California Democrats want to make their state more of a leftist utopia
than ever.

This is a mistake. California provides Democrats with a badly needed safe space
to show they can govern without being captive to the culturally revolutionary
vanguard that has pushed so many voters into the arms of Trump's GOP.

If Democrats want to make a credible case that Republicans should exercise
magnanimity and restraint over the next four years as they set a national policy
agenda, they should refocus on a broadly appealing agenda that pays heed to
California's dwindling middle class and its pinched working class. The
old-fashioned circumspection of Gov. Jerry Brown should be more of a model going
forward than the cutting-edge, aggressive progressivism of Gavin Newsom or
Kamala Harris.

Certainly, California is already one of the most socially liberal states in the
union. But, as its many libertarians can attest, the accommodating and
permissive spirit that has worked best for California has largely been an
organic one, rising up from residents' progressively shifting habits and mores.
Meanwhile, enforced, top-down "liberalism" has mostly sown intractable conflict,
squandering valuable time and energy on matters that hardly bear on the basic
hallmarks of successful governance: a robust economy, judicious lawmaking and a
society with a healthy, stable middle tier of producers, consumers and
neighbors. Democrats should have anticipated the disappointments of a rainbow
coalition built around an identity politics of grievance, even if, in
California's parallel universe, rose-colored glasses made it difficult.

But recent news reports have revealed that one leading Democrat did push for a
different approach - Bill Clinton, the man responsible for his party's return
from narrow margins in national politics after three consecutive Republican
administrations. Clinton "repeatedly pushed his wife's campaign to do more
outreach to economically distressed white communities by prioritizing her
populist economic message," as Vanity Fair has noted. "But her advisors refused,
believing that Hillary would do better by appealing to minorities and
college-educated suburban voters."

He begged in vain for his wife to accept an invitation to address a St.
Patrick's Day event at the University of Notre Dame. "But Mrs. Clinton's
campaign refused, explaining to the organizers that white Catholics were not the
audience she needed to spend time reaching out to," the New York Times recently
reported.

White, working-class voters who broke for Obama flipped to Trump and the GOP
across the Rust Belt, deciding the election.

Democrats who want to regain the trust of those Obama voters have much work to
do in the Midwest states that turned against them this year. But the real proof
of a party-wide rethink will have to come from the deepest blue states, and no
blue state is more Democratic than California.

Gov. Brown has hardly governed as a bloodless centrist, but he has consistently
curbed some of his party's least productive adventures in utopianism and
identity politics. Although California's rising generation of leading Democrats
often seem to think of an archliberal agenda as not just their prerogative, but
rather their destiny, if they fail to reckon with the wisdom of an earlier
political age, soon they'll really have something to worry about.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             162 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

By accident, media helped Trump

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 627 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

A lot of people were shocked by the result of the presidential election, but I
think it's safe to say the only people more stunned than Hillary Clinton and her
supporters were the news media. And by the media, I mean all of them.

It didn't matter which network you were watching, as each anchor called the
election for Donald Trump they all had the same expression of complete and total
bewilderment on their faces. The only thing I can compare it to is the look that
attorney Robert Kardashian had on his kisser when the jury foreman read the O.J.
Simpson verdict.

The conventional wisdom was that since Trump was hit with the kitchen sink on a
daily basis, there was no way he could cobble together the necessary 270
electoral votes to win the election.

But he did.

And I actually think the media's palpable disdain for the Manhattan billionaire
ended up helping him with the American people.

Never before has there been an election where the news media so overtly picked a
side. This was true across all platforms - broadcast, entertainment and print -
almost everybody in my profession wanted Hillary to win.

Writing in Time magazine, Univision and Fusion anchor Jorge Ramos insisted, "It
doesn't matter who you are - a journalist, a politician or a voter - we'll all
be judged by how we responded to Donald Trump. Like it or not, this election is
a plebiscite on the most divisive, polarizing and disrupting figure in American
politics in decades. And neutrality is not an option."

And then Ramos went even further, saying, "Trump has forced journalists to
revisit rules of objectivity and fairness. Just providing both points of view is
not enough in the current presidential campaign. If a candidate is making racist
and sexist remarks, we cannot hide in the principle of neutrality. That's a
false equivalence."

Ramos' remarks were celebrated by his peers.

The Philadelphia Enquirer went so far as to editorialize, "You call Jorge Ramos
'an advocacy journalist'? If so, America needs 10,000 more like him."

On "The Tonight Show,' host Jimmy Fallon invited Trump on as a guest and treated
him the same way he would treat any other political candidate. As a result, he
was excoriated.

Jo Miller, an executive producer of "Full Frontal with Samantha Bee" on TBS,
said in an interview with The New York Times that seeing Fallon's interview of
Trump "was a punch in the gut."

Miller explained, "This is not a race between Democrat and Republican - this is
a race between Democrat and demagogue. You don't normalize someone who's
inciting violence."

And then you have the Huffington Post, which decided to print all of its
Trump-related news in the 'entertainment' section of the website along with the
outrageous editors note, "Donald Trump regularly incites political violence and
is a serial liar, rampant xenophobe, racist, misogynist and birther who has
repeatedly pledged to ban all Muslims - 1.6 billion members of an entire
religion - from entering the U.S."

In response to this blanket side-picking, most Americans just decided to tune
the media out - because they knew they weren't honest brokers.

Whenever a news outlet would unveil yet another hit piece on Trump, it would
largely fall on deaf ears instead of having an impact on the race.

A week and change after the election, two things are clear - the media have lost
their influence over the electorate, and it helped Donald Trump.

If they want to get their good name back, and recapture the attention of half of
America, there's only one way to do it - go back to playing it straight.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             163 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Why we are still waiting for Madam President

BYLINE: Lori Cox Han

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 899 words

ABSTRACT

Lori Cox Han on Clinton loss

FULL TEXT

Obviously, a Hillary Clinton presidency would have been historic. The symbolism
of Clinton's inauguration as the first women president would have resonated
world-wide as a mark of the progress that American women have achieved in all
walks of life. Instead, the post-mortem is well underway about why, despite all
the polls and pundit predictions, Clinton lost.

Many are pointing to sexism as the main culprit, yet no empirical evidence
exists to back it up. We know that sexist and misogynistic views exist within
our society, and that negative stereotypes about women are constantly promoted
within our mass media. However, proving a link between sexist views and voting
behavior, with any validity, is impossible. Public opinion polls for years have
shown support for electing a woman president, suggesting that a majority of
Americans are not deterred by a woman candidate. Partisanship was more than
likely the deciding factor in 2016 as severe polarization has continued among
the American electorate, as were economic issues as evidenced by Donald Trump's
success in the Rust Belt.

Similarly, gender bias in news coverage is also a popular theory for why Clinton
lost. While sexist and misogynistic language exists, particularly online and in
social media, there is no empirical evidence to suggest this can effect voter
preference or turnout. If a blogger or cable news pundit writes or says
something offensive about a woman candidate, are we to believe that can
translate into hundreds of thousands or even millions of voters refusing to
support her? That assessment defies logic. Obviously, sexism can have a harmful
effect when considering the broader issue of political socialization through the
mass media, but we should not overinflate its importance as it relates to
political news and voting behavior. Not only has research shown that
frontrunners get more negative coverage (which Clinton was in 2008 and 2016),
but also that public criticism of sexist attacks can eliminate the effectiveness
and make it seem less credible.

Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign built extensively on the support she earned
in her campaign for the Democratic nomination in 2008. She won the Democratic
nomination with 34 primary and caucus victories and a total of 17 million votes.
She broke every fundraising record with the $500 million she raised this
campaign cycle (not to mention the nearly $200 million in Super PAC funds). In
the general election, she won 19 states plus the District of Columbia, 232
electoral votes, and will win the popular vote. To say that American voters
can't or won't vote for a woman for president no longer holds credibility.

A closer examination of Clinton as a candidate is where we see many compelling
reasons for her loss. I am on record that Clinton was an "inherently flawed
candidate," which left me skeptical for years that she could actually win the
presidency. During this campaign, she was under investigation by the FBI for
both her use of a private email server and fundraising at the Clinton Foundation
while secretary of state. That, along with the baggage from her husband's long
political career, reinforced the negative perceptions many Americans have had of
the Clintons for years.

A majority of voters did not trust her, nor did they hold a positive view of
her. What has often helped women politicians - being more trusted among voters,
in part, for their outsider perspective - was lost for Clinton. In addition, the
argument that she should run on the historic nature of her campaign to be the
first woman president fell flat months ago, as polling and focus group data
suggested that message was hurting more than helping her.

Group solidarity also did not emerge for Clinton with women voters. Despite
projections that the gender gap would be a record-breaking 20 percent or higher,
it was only 13 percent (similar to Barack Obama's support from women in 2008 and
2012, as well as Al Gore's in 2000). Political scientists have long known that
women are not a monolithic voting bloc. Research continues to show that it is
partisan affiliation (including policy choices), and not gender, that is most
influential in determining women's voter preference. Mitt Romney won among
married women and white women in 2012; this time, Clinton won among married
women, but 53 percent of white women supported Trump, proving that gender is
just one part of the voting behavior equation.

As I have long argued, despite the inevitable symbolism that will come from
electing the first woman president, nothing will change about our constitution
and/or presidential powers. I concluded in my 2015 book "In It to Win: Electing
Madam President" that a gendered strategy is not necessary for a woman
presidential candidate to win, and I believe the Clinton campaign proved that
point. While some gender advantages may exist, it is the institutional,
constitutional, nuts-and-bolts of the electoral process that ultimately
determines the winner. Despite the advantage in fundraising, political
experience and a superior ground game, the Clinton campaign failed to provide a
strong narrative about why she should be elected, and failed to turn out voters
in the swing states that mattered. The candidate's gender can hardly be blamed
for that.

Lori Cox Han, PhD, is professor of political science at Chapman University.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             164 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Wind, solar seeking influence;
Alt-energy leaders hope jobs, economic growth will bring the president-elect on
board

BYLINE: David Danelski; ddanelski@scng.com

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1075 words

ABSTRACT

LDN-L-ELX-ENERGY | From PE; will place in SAXO | The nation, especially Southern
California, has pushed hard for alternative fuels, powered by President Obama's
alluring financial incentives by a shift to the right in DC? The state,
encouraged by Gov. Brown, crafted some of the nation's toughest air-quality
standards while private companies took advantage of incentives to build mammoth
solar plants in the desert? Will a different White House agenda that promises to
embrace more traditional fossil fuels set a new tone? Danelski-Bender 30" File
photos, graphic of desert power plants (stunning PE art of desert power plants)
ETA: Thursday 6 pm

FULL TEXT

Wind and solar power proponents hope to appeal to Republican President-elect
Donald Trump's desire for economic growth to persuade him to support their
industries.

Their business means jobs, they say, and the president-elect promised lots of
new jobs.

"We are looking at continued growth and investment," said Greg Wetstone,
president and CEO of the American Council on Renewable Energy.

The green-power business is riding on an unprecedented wave, powered largely by
President Barack Obama, who promoted alternative energy development as a way to
counter global warming. And he matched his enthusiasm with lucrative financial
incentives.

At the crest of that wave, alt-energy leaders hope to counter some of what Trump
said about wind and solar energy during his presidential campaign and define
their business as a proven brand of economic development.

On the campaign trail, Trump called global warming a hoax invented by the
Chinese, despite much scientific consensus that supports the threat.

In a radio interview with conservative activist Herman Cain last month, Trump
said: "Solar is very, very expensive. Wind is very, very expensive, and it only
works when it's windy." He also said that Riverside County's San Gorgonio Pass
area "looks like a junkyard" because of aging wind farms. "It's the worst thing
you've ever seen."

Trump also vowed to slash environmental regulations to bolster the oil, gas and
coal industries.

But Trump has yet to speak about energy since the election and has appeared
responsive to advice from Obama and others.

Once in the White House, he'll face growing international consensus on climate
change. At the ongoing United Nations climate talks in Marrakech, conference
chair Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco offered: "Our message to the new American
president is simply to say, 'We count on your pragmatism and your spirit of
commitment.' "

Trump's own stance isn't yet clear. In the same interview with Cain, the
president-elect left the door open to more wind and solar development by adding:
"I'm not saying I'm against those things. I'm for everything. I'm for
everything."

Alternative energy experts, along with local and state officials, said they
don't expect to see a slowdown of residential or commercial solar energy
development in California.

Tim Clark, Trump's California campaign state director, referred questions about
Trump's energy policy to the president-elect's transition team. The team's web
page asks that press inquiries be sent by email. No one on the team responded to
an inquiry for this report.

Jack Pitney, a professor of politics at Claremont McKenna College, said clean
energy probably will do fine if Trump can be convinced of its economic
viability.

"He is a climate skeptic, so I wouldn't emphasize climate change," Pitney said.
"If I am a lobbyist for the solar industry, I would say this is an effective
form of energy and people can make a lot of money selling it, and he'd be OK
with it."

Two days after the election, about 70 energy, state and local officials gathered
in the desert near Blythe to celebrate the opening of two neighboring solar
plants. The McCoy and Blythe facilities blanket more than 6 square miles of
federal land in eastern Riverside County and create enough electricity for about
181,000 households.

Like several other large-scale solar projects, they were built on federal land
with federal tax credits that covered 30 percent of the $1.2 billion development
cost.

In a deal approved by Congress last year that also helped the oil industry,
those credits for solar will stay at 30 percent through 2019. They'll be phased
down to 10 percent by 2022.

Scott Busa, executive director of development for NextEra Energy, said these
credits, plus already obtained land-use entitlements from the federal Bureau of
Land Management, will allow for the Blythe and McCoy projects to expand in the
coming years and more than double energy output.

"We are only about halfway there, and we look forward to future expansion," he
said.

Karen Douglas, a member of the California Energy Commission, also was at the
Nov. 10 ceremony in the desert. She said California's commitment to clean energy
that began in the 1970s is unwavering.

"This is going to continue," said Douglas, standing by a sea of solar panels
extending deep into the desert landscape.

California, she said, must meet its own clean energy mandates, which require
that 50 percent of the state's electricity come from carbon-free sources, such
as solar, wind and geothermal facilities.

Industry officials are confident that Trump will see the economic benefits.

Wetstone said that demand for solar and other forms of alternative energy is
increasing as the costs are coming down.

The organization estimates that the renewable energy industry attracts about $44
billion a year in investments, creating thousand of jobs.

Dan Whitten, a spokesman for the Solar Energy Industries Association, said
proponents should appeal to Trump's call for jobs and energy security. Doing
that could help the solar industry thrive during his administration.

"We don't see where he has a motive to stop this train from rolling forward,"
Whitten said.

Riverside County Supervisor John Benoit said he hopes eastern Riverside County
will continue to benefit from solar development. The zone runs along the I-10
corridor between Desert Center and Blythe.

But Benoit remains concerned about Trump's knowledge of alternative energy,
saying much of his rhetoric is "in serious error."

For instance, in the Cain interview, Trump said that "thousands of birds are
lying on the ground" near Palm Springs wind farms. And Trump said that wind
farms kill eagles "by the hundreds."

Wind turbines do kill birds, but not on the scale described by Trump.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             165 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Pomona College shows support for undocumented

BYLINE: Beau Yarbrough; byarbrough@scng.com @LBY3 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words

ABSTRACT

Pomona College president calls on other college presidents to support DACA,
following in the recent footsteps of other California college and university
presidents.

FULL TEXT

CLAREMONT >> Pomona College President David Oxtoby joined a growing chorus of
Southern California college and university presidents last week when he voiced
his support for undocumented students.

On Thursday, Oxtoby sent a statement in support of the federal Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals policy and "our undocumented immigrant students" more
generally to other college and university presidents around the country.

"Since the advent of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in 2012,
we have seen the critical benefits of this program for our students, and the
highly positive impacts on our institutions and communities," Oxtoby's statement
said in part. "DACA beneficiaries on our campuses have been exemplary student
scholars and student leaders, working across campus and in the community.

"With DACA, our students and alumni have been able to pursue opportunities in
business, education, high tech, and the nonprofit sector; they have gone to
medical school,

law school and graduate schools in numerous disciplines. They are actively
contributing to their local communities and economies."

The policy was a product of the Obama administration and many now wonder about
its future under the administration of President-elect Donald Trump, who made
increased immigration enforcement and curtailing the entry of some immigrants a
central part of his presidential campaign.

On the campaign trail, Trump has said he would repeal DACA if elected.

Oxtoby is hoping Trump will change his mind.

"To our country's leaders, we say that DACA should be upheld, continued, and
expanded," the statement said.

"We are prepared to meet with you to present our case. This is both a moral
imperative and a national necessity. America needs talent - and these students,
who have been raised and educated in the United States, are already part of our
national community. They represent what is best about America, and as scholars
and leaders they are essential to the future."

According to Pomona College spokeswoman Patricia Cecilia Zurita, "dozens of
presidents have joined the initiative already."

As of 10:30 a.m. Monday, more than 130 college and university presidents from
public and private institutions have a signed statement offering to meet with
U.S. leaders on the issue.

Oxtoby's letter puts him in step with other California educators and
politicians, including California State University Chancellor Timothy P. White
and state Attorney General and U.S. Sen.-elect Kamala Harris.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             166 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Get ready for a new voting system debuting in 2018

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 713 words



If you voted this fall in a neighborhood garage or the clubhouse of a park or a
school auditorium, remember the experience well. It may not be repeated anytime
soon. If you saw American flags flying at your precinct polling place, that
sight may also disappear.

A whole new election system is about to begin in California, complete with "vote
centers" and a big expansion of early balloting. The new system will start
phasing in in 2018 in 14 counties and should be operative by 2020 everywhere in
the state.

One thing is for sure: Losing candidates and those who expect to lose will have
new fodder for the "rigged election" cry taken up so vocally this fall by
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. With more mail-in ballots
involved than ever before, same-day voter registration and personnel in place to
provide language assistance, charges of fraud will be common at least while the
new system is being broken in.

The hope behind the new system, pushed hard by Democratic Secretary of State
Alex Padilla and signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown, is to increase voter
turnout drastically.

After low turnout disappointed officials in 2014 and the off-year elections of
2013 and 2015, they began casting about for changes. The new system will deliver
mail-in ballots to every registered voter in the 28 days before the actual
Election Day, aiming to end any need to vote in a single place on just one day.

"We've got to ... implement a new voting model," said Democratic state Sen. Ben
Allen of Santa Monica, who sponsored the new system in the Legislature. "Our
current system has failed, as our voter turnout rates continued to decline
toward record lows."

Turnout in both the 2014 primary (25 percent of registered voters) and that
year's November general election (42 percent) was at record lows, making Padilla
and the Legislature a bit desperate to push numbers up.

So instead of voters needing to sign up to receive mail-in ballots for every
election, from now on they will go to everyone automatically. Never mind the
tradition of the secret ballot; everyone from labor unions to employers to
neighborhood groups is now free to hold ballot-marking parties before Election
Day. This has actually been true since mail-in voting became common in the late
1970s, and there have never been charges it led to mass fraud or coerced voting
for particular candidates or causes. But such outcries may arise now.

The guinea pigs for the new system will be voters in Calaveras, Inyo, Madera,
Napa, Nevada, Orange, Sacramento, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Shasta, Sierra, Sutter and Tuolumne counties, with in-person voting at centers
spotted around each county weeks before Election Day. Voters also will be able
to drop off ballots at those centers, rather than mailing them in.

Counties pushed for this, partly as a cost-cutting measure. The fewer polling
places, the lower the cost of an election. But counties moving to the new system
will all have to adopt detailed plans through a system involving public hearings
and input. Community groups, advocates for the disabled and other individuals
all will be able to express preferences for vote center locations. But expect
them to be placed in public buildings where there's either no rent or low rent.

The politicians behind this system claim it will provide far greater flexibility
than long-standing precinct polling places. "It's time to modernize the voting
process," said Democratic state Sen. Robert Hertzberg of Van Nuys, a co-sponsor.
"We need to provide the same convenience and flexibility (people) have in other
areas of their lives. You can stream a movie or deposit a check with your phone
any time, but without this (change), people still have to arrange their busy
schedules to get to a polling place on a single day and that has hurt turnout."

Only time will tell whether all this actually spurs more people to vote. And no
one knows whether the inevitable charges of fraud or vote-fixing will have any
merit. But the people behind the change are certainly correct about one thing:
Turnout had become far too low in recent years, often allowing a small minority
of eligible voters to choose the people who make key decisions for everyone.

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             167 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Court gives taxi competition a green light

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Tuesday editorial on taxi regulations

FULL TEXT

While everyone was preoccupied with the impending elections, and particularly
the presidential race, a federal appeals court quietly issued a pair of rulings
upholding deregulation in the taxi and ridesharing market.

The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals issued two separate rulings last month
affirming decisions that reforms opening up taxi markets to greater competition
in Chicago and Milwaukee did not violate the rights of entrenched taxi
interests. The Chicago case concerned the city's decision to allow ridesharing
services such as Uber and Lyft to operate. In the Milwaukee case, the largest
taxicab operator in the city sued after the city removed the cap on taxi
medallions, which significantly reduced the artificially inflated resale value
of the medallions.

Judge Richard Posner did not mince words in the court's Milwaukee decision: "The
plaintiffs' contention that the increased number of permits has taken property
away from the plaintiffs without compensation, in violation of the
constitutional protection of property, borders on the absurd. Property can take
a variety of forms, some of them intangible, such as patents. But a taxi permit
confers only a right to operate a taxicab (a right which, in Milwaukee, may be
sold). It does not create a right to be an oligopolist, and thus confers no
right to exclude others from operating taxis."

The decisions were hailed by the Institute for Justice, a libertarian
public-interest law firm that represented drivers and entrepreneurs in both
cases, and which also has won legal victories against taxi regulations in
Denver, Minneapolis and Bowling Green, Ohio.

"These cases clear the way for transportation freedom across the country," the
institute's Senior Attorney Anthony Sanders said in a statement. "For too long,
cities across the country have embraced an outdated mode of transportation
regulation that says competition is to be feared and that freedom for taxi
drivers or other transportation entrepreneurs is unthinkable. Today's rulings
confirm that there is absolutely no legal barrier to other cities' joining the
rising wave of cities embracing transportation freedom."

Ridesharing services have sparked a flurry of regulatory activity, both for
better and for worse. Initially, governments rushed to impose regulations on the
renegade disrupters, particularly in large cities with powerful traditional taxi
interests. But, as consumers have increasingly rendered their verdict in favor
of ridesharers, and the inevitability of the success of the new business model
has set in, there has been a backlash wave of deregulation - for both
ridesharing companies and taxis.

San Diego followed Milwaukee's lead, lifting its cap on taxi permits two years
ago, and cities across the nation - from Portland, Oregon, to Salt Lake City to
Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, to Sarasota, Florida - have deregulated in recent
years.

This is a great victory for entrepreneurs looking to make a living and
consumers, who benefit from the increased competition in the form of lower
prices and better service. Now, if only occupational licensing laws and other
regulatory and protectionist barriers could be brought down in equal measure and
fervor in other industries.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             168 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Get ready for a new voting system debuting in 2018

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 713 words



If you voted this fall in a neighborhood garage or the clubhouse of a park or a
school auditorium, remember the experience well. It may not be repeated anytime
soon. If you saw American flags flying at your precinct polling place, that
sight may also disappear.

A whole new election system is about to begin in California, complete with "vote
centers" and a big expansion of early balloting. The new system will start
phasing in in 2018 in 14 counties and should be operative by 2020 everywhere in
the state.

One thing is for sure: Losing candidates and those who expect to lose will have
new fodder for the "rigged election" cry taken up so vocally this fall by
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. With more mail-in ballots
involved than ever before, same-day voter registration and personnel in place to
provide language assistance, charges of fraud will be common at least while the
new system is being broken in.

The hope behind the new system, pushed hard by Democratic Secretary of State
Alex Padilla and signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown, is to increase voter
turnout drastically.

After low turnout disappointed officials in 2014 and the off-year elections of
2013 and 2015, they began casting about for changes. The new system will deliver
mail-in ballots to every registered voter in the 28 days before the actual
Election Day, aiming to end any need to vote in a single place on just one day.

"We've got to ... implement a new voting model," said Democratic state Sen. Ben
Allen of Santa Monica, who sponsored the new system in the Legislature. "Our
current system has failed, as our voter turnout rates continued to decline
toward record lows."

Turnout in both the 2014 primary (25 percent of registered voters) and that
year's November general election (42 percent) was at record lows, making Padilla
and the Legislature a bit desperate to push numbers up.

So instead of voters needing to sign up to receive mail-in ballots for every
election, from now on they will go to everyone automatically. Never mind the
tradition of the secret ballot; everyone from labor unions to employers to
neighborhood groups is now free to hold ballot-marking parties before Election
Day. This has actually been true since mail-in voting became common in the late
1970s, and there have never been charges it led to mass fraud or coerced voting
for particular candidates or causes. But such outcries may arise now.

The guinea pigs for the new system will be voters in Calaveras, Inyo, Madera,
Napa, Nevada, Orange, Sacramento, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Shasta, Sierra, Sutter and Tuolumne counties, with in-person voting at centers
spotted around each county weeks before Election Day. Voters also will be able
to drop off ballots at those centers, rather than mailing them in.

Counties pushed for this, partly as a cost-cutting measure. The fewer polling
places, the lower the cost of an election. But counties moving to the new system
will all have to adopt detailed plans through a system involving public hearings
and input. Community groups, advocates for the disabled and other individuals
all will be able to express preferences for vote center locations. But expect
them to be placed in public buildings where there's either no rent or low rent.

The politicians behind this system claim it will provide far greater flexibility
than long-standing precinct polling places. "It's time to modernize the voting
process," said Democratic state Sen. Robert Hertzberg of Van Nuys, a co-sponsor.
"We need to provide the same convenience and flexibility (people) have in other
areas of their lives. You can stream a movie or deposit a check with your phone
any time, but without this (change), people still have to arrange their busy
schedules to get to a polling place on a single day and that has hurt turnout."

Only time will tell whether all this actually spurs more people to vote. And no
one knows whether the inevitable charges of fraud or vote-fixing will have any
merit. But the people behind the change are certainly correct about one thing:
Turnout had become far too low in recent years, often allowing a small minority
of eligible voters to choose the people who make key decisions for everyone.

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             169 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Court gives taxi competition a green light

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Tuesday editorial on taxi regulations

FULL TEXT

While everyone was preoccupied with the impending elections, and particularly
the presidential race, a federal appeals court quietly issued a pair of rulings
upholding deregulation in the taxi and ridesharing market.

The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals issued two separate rulings last month
affirming decisions that reforms opening up taxi markets to greater competition
in Chicago and Milwaukee did not violate the rights of entrenched taxi
interests. The Chicago case concerned the city's decision to allow ridesharing
services such as Uber and Lyft to operate. In the Milwaukee case, the largest
taxicab operator in the city sued after the city removed the cap on taxi
medallions, which significantly reduced the artificially inflated resale value
of the medallions.

Judge Richard Posner did not mince words in the court's Milwaukee decision: "The
plaintiffs' contention that the increased number of permits has taken property
away from the plaintiffs without compensation, in violation of the
constitutional protection of property, borders on the absurd. Property can take
a variety of forms, some of them intangible, such as patents. But a taxi permit
confers only a right to operate a taxicab (a right which, in Milwaukee, may be
sold). It does not create a right to be an oligopolist, and thus confers no
right to exclude others from operating taxis."

The decisions were hailed by the Institute for Justice, a libertarian
public-interest law firm that represented drivers and entrepreneurs in both
cases, and which also has won legal victories against taxi regulations in
Denver, Minneapolis and Bowling Green, Ohio.

"These cases clear the way for transportation freedom across the country," the
institute's Senior Attorney Anthony Sanders said in a statement. "For too long,
cities across the country have embraced an outdated mode of transportation
regulation that says competition is to be feared and that freedom for taxi
drivers or other transportation entrepreneurs is unthinkable. Today's rulings
confirm that there is absolutely no legal barrier to other cities' joining the
rising wave of cities embracing transportation freedom."

Ridesharing services have sparked a flurry of regulatory activity, both for
better and for worse. Initially, governments rushed to impose regulations on the
renegade disrupters, particularly in large cities with powerful traditional taxi
interests. But, as consumers have increasingly rendered their verdict in favor
of ridesharers, and the inevitability of the success of the new business model
has set in, there has been a backlash wave of deregulation - for both
ridesharing companies and taxis.

San Diego followed Milwaukee's lead, lifting its cap on taxi permits two years
ago, and cities across the nation - from Portland, Oregon, to Salt Lake City to
Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, to Sarasota, Florida - have deregulated in recent
years.

This is a great victory for entrepreneurs looking to make a living and
consumers, who benefit from the increased competition in the form of lower
prices and better service. Now, if only occupational licensing laws and other
regulatory and protectionist barriers could be brought down in equal measure and
fervor in other industries.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             170 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Today in history

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 445 words

ABSTRACT

Hist 11-22

FULL TEXT

1718

English pirate Edward Teach - better-known as "Blackbeard" - was killed during a
battle off present-day North Carolina.

1914

The First Battle of Ypres during World War I ended with an Allied victory
against Germany.

1963

John F. Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States, was shot to death
during a motorcade in Dallas; Texas Gov. John B. Connally, riding in the same
car as Kennedy, was seriously wounded; suspected gunman Lee Harvey Oswald was
arrested.

1955

Comic Shemp Howard of "Three Stooges" fame died in Hollywood at age 60.

1965

The musical "Man of La Mancha" opened on Broadway. Singer-songwriter Bob Dylan
married Sara Lownds (the marriage lasted 12 years).

1975

Juan Carlos was proclaimed King of Spain.

1989

Rene Mouawad was killed by a bomb after serving 17 days as president of Lebanon.

1990

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, having failed to win re-election of
the Conservative Party leadership on the first ballot, announced she would
resign.

2006

A chemical factory explosion in Danvers, Massachusetts, destroyed the
surrounding neighborhood but caused no deaths or serious injuries.

2011

Baseball players and owners signed an agreement for a new labor contract, a deal
making baseball the first North American professional major league to start
blood testing on human growth hormone and expanding the playoffs to 10 teams by
2013. Ryan Braun was voted the NL MVP after helping the Milwaukee Brewers win
their first division title in nearly 30 years. Death claimed France's former
first lady Danielle Mitterrand at age 87 and Svetlana Alliluyeva, daughter of
Soviet dictator Josef Stalin, at age 85. Soldier-turned-soap opera star J.R.
Martinez and his professional partner, Karina Smirnoff, were named champions of
season 13 of ABC's "Dancing with the Stars."

2015

Trying to reassure a nation on edge, President Barack Obama said in Malaysia
that the Islamic State group "cannot strike a mortal blow" against the U.S., and
he warned that overreacting to the Paris attacks would play into extremists'
hands. Opposition candidate Mauricio Macri won Argentina's presidential
election, marking an end to the left-leaning era of President Cristina
Fernandez. Former South Korean President Kim Young-sam, 87, who led the
country's transition to democracy, died in Seoul. Actress and artist Adele
Morales Mailer, 90, died in New York. Novak Djokovic won his fourth straight
title at the season-ending ATP finals by beating six-time champion Roger Federer
6-3, 6-4. Kyle Busch won his first career Sprint Cup title claiming the season
finale at Homestead-Miami Speedway. One Direction won artist of the year at the
American Music Awards.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             171 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Trump victory brings 'alt-right' into full view

BYLINE: Jay Reeves; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 426 words


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. >> Donald Trump's election is bringing to the fore a strain of
race-based politics once so far out of the mainstream few had even heard of it.

With an ideology that's a mix of racism, white nationalism and old-fashioned
populism, the "alt-right" has burst into the collective consciousness since
members showed up at the Republican National Convention to celebrate Trump's
nomination last summer.

When one of its leaders, Richard Spencer, gave a speech in Washington last
Saturday at an alt-right conference attended by a couple of hundred people, The
Atlantic was there with a video camera that captured the Nazi-style salutes of
people.

"Hail Trump, hail our people, hail victory!" Spencer said to cheers that were
shown in video snippets that have since been viewed.

What does Spencer mean by "our people"? Whites. Spencer directs the National
Policy Institute, which describes itself as "dedicated to the heritage, identity
and future of people of European descent in the United States and around the
world."

It is Spencer who is widely credited with coming up with the term "alt-right,"
or "alternative-right," about eight years go.

While members of the movement are getting more attention than ever, the head of
the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism said Tuesday there is not much
new in its message.

"The hatred and bigotry that is at the core of alt-right ideology has not
changed," center director Oren Segal said in an interview conducted by private
messaging. "What has changed is the name, their packaging and the stated belief
that they have a champion in the highest office."

Richard Cohen, president of the Alabama-based Southern Poverty Law Center, an
organization that tracks hate groups, said the alt-right is "a rebranding of
white nationalism." Cohen called it "the energy behind the avalanche of racist
and anti-Semitic harassment that plagued social media platforms for the entire
presidential campaign."

Cohen's comments came in a statement about Trump's decision to fill his chief
strategist slot with Steve Bannon, who formerly ran Breitbart News, a website
popular with members of the alt-right. Indeed, much of the alt-right exists
online only, for all practical purposes.

While the Ku Klux Klan or neo-Nazis might have public rallies, people associated
with the alt-right are more likely to spread their beliefs in online forums or
on social media like Twitter. They tend more toward memes than marches; subjects
can include criticism of Jews and claims that white Americans are under attack
by minority groups.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             172 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Food not feud at the table;
Happy holiday: How to remain civil while talking political turkey today

BYLINE: Jeff Horseman; jhorseman@scng.com, @JeffHorseman

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1259 words

ABSTRACT

PE_R_POLITURKEY_1123 | Thanksgiving is a time for feasting, family get-togethers
and the inevitable dinner table screaming match between your arch-conservative
uncle and his ultra-liberal niece. With Donald Trump's election provoking strong
reactions, this Thanksgiving's politics talk could be even more intense. We talk
with experts to see if there's any way to make these debates more civil and
perhaps give liberals and conservatives resources to find talking points.
Reporter/Editor: Horseman/Bender Length: 33 Art: TK ETA: 5 p.m. Tuesday

FULL TEXT

"Pass the gravy. I'll have some more stuffing. Oh, and Uncle Bob, why do you
hate America?"

Such table talk might be a staple of your Thanksgiving dinner. But while
politics discussed over cranberry sauce is nothing new, this year's dinner-time
debate could be especially intense in the wake of November's divisive
presidential election.

"When it comes to politics, people get emotional because it relates to their
belief system," said Bart Rossi, a political psychologist who frequently appears
on TV news shows.

"They're not just challenging Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. It's your
personal belief system, which is serious stuff."

John Berry, a cabinet member of the Redlands Tea Party Patriots who loves to
talk politics, plans to spend Thanksgiving in Laguna Beach with his in-laws.

"Inside, I'm doing a Snoopy-like happy dance," said Berry, who describes himself
as "surrounded by liberals."

At Thanksgiving dinner, Berry said he will bite the inside of his cheeks to keep

from gloating.

"It's kind of funny. When the liberals won in 2008, they weren't shy about
expressing their opinion," Berry added. "But if they bring it up, I'm going to
give it to them both barrels."

The chances of your turkey coming with a side of discord could rise if your
relatives are geographically scattered. This election underscored deep divisions
between different parts of the country. California went strongly for Hillary
Clinton, but Donald Trump did better in the South and Rust Belt.

Before you lose your voice screaming at your niece about her Bernie Sanders
tattoo, here are some strategies for keeping the food and politics separate - or
at least, arguing in a way that won't cause anyone to storm off.

Expect the best

For many, just the thought of hearing Cousin Mike talk about immigration is
enough to cause heartburn hours before the first spoonful of Aunt Jane's
jalapeño-infused cheese dip.

Kate Sweeny, a UC Riverside associate psychology professor who studies how
people cope with uncertain waiting periods, suggests distracting yourself in a
way that completely consumes you. Maybe it's video games. Or it could be
gardening or getting a head start on that work project.

You could plan responses in advance, Sweeny said. For example, if your father
shows up in his "Make America Great Again" hat, say "Nice hat!" and change the
subject.

Sweeny also suggests not assuming the worst will happen. "I do think in this
sort of circumstance, expecting the best can only help you," Sweeny said. "If
you go in expecting the worst behavior, you might create a self-fulfilling
prophecy."

Thanksgiving hosts need to be prepared for how to handle political talk, said
Tim Muehlhoff, a professor of communications at Biola University in La Mirada.
"In addition to assessing what stuffing to make, a host couple needs to assess
the overall communication climate that will envelop the day's activities," he
said.

Reciting Abraham Lincoln's Thanksgiving Day proclamation from 1863 is a
Thanksgiving tradition for Huntington Beach resident Ken Gordon's family.

"It's a good time to bring up and point out to our children how much more
faith-based our nation was," said Gordon, 52, a decline-to-state/unaffiliated
voter who said he left the Republican Party.

This Thanksgiving, Gordon also anticipates talking about the party of Lincoln.
"I think, at the time of this proclamation, (the GOP was) the party of the
disenfranchised," he said. "I would not say that any longer."

Locker room talk

An easy way to avoid a yam-fueled shouting match over Trump's tax policy is to
make clear ahead of time that there's no space on the table for a family edition
of CNN's "Crossfire."

Bill Southworth, a professor of speech and debate history at the University of
Redlands, recommends a "locker room" edict.

"There are two subjects never to be discussed in the locker room - politics and
religion," he said. "All family gatherings (especially those with split voters)
should agree not to mention Clinton or Trump or anything about the election. If
violated, the offending party should leave or the guest should feel free to
depart."

Rossi, the political psychologist, suggests taking the blame for a moratorium.
"(Say) 'I've been especially involved (with this election). At this point in
time, I could use a day to relax and eat some turkey,'" he said.

You also can limit your political discussions to those with like-minded
viewpoints. "This way, you will find yourself talking to family and friends who
support your feelings and perspective," said David Kaplan, a family counselor
and chief professional officer of the American Counseling Association.

"Given the divisiveness of the recent election, trying to vent to someone who
voted for the candidate you opposed or to change their perspective is just going
to make you feel worse."

Radine Hiers, a Moreno Valley Democrat, said she won't be inviting any family
members "who disregarded the rights of any Americans."

"Never have I ever limited differing political views from my life. I really like
political debate," she said. "They could have voted for any other candidate. But
when they crossed into the very apparent and blatantly exposed racism ... (it)
is a line I will no longer accept."

How to argue

Avoidance and positivity have failed. Now, your sister-in-law demands to know
why you voted for "Crooked Hillary."

First, swallow the green beans. Then, rather than call her stupid, "(Say) 'I'm
on the other side and here's why,'" Rossi said. "Highlight as succinctly as
possible why you feel this way.

"You're not arguing to win the argument or change somebody else's personality.
You're just trying to get your point in and move on."

Listening also is important, Rossi said. "Be able to say back to the person what
they said. You can say 'I heard you and you said this. This is why I'm on the
other side of it.'"

You also could point out why you disagree even though you stand to benefit from
the election's outcome, Rossi said.

"Let's suppose you don't really like Donald Trump ... but let's say you get a
really big tax advantage (with his election)," he said. "You could say 'I
actually stand to gain in some ways. However, I'm really on the other side of
everything he stands for.' Or vice versa with Hillary Clinton."

Steven Smith, 29, of Riverside, who said he was "very disappointed" with the
election results, plans to host a family Thanksgiving.

"If anything, I want to take this day to be positive and remember why we are
eating (and) remember the reasons to be thankful and hopeful for the future."

If you must argue

Hopefully your Thanksgiving is full of good memories and family harmony. But if
you insist on arguing with your political opposites, here are some resources.

For conservatives:

National Review: www.nationalreview.com

Town Hall: townhall.com

For liberals:

The Daily Kos: www.dailykos.com

ThinkProgress: www.thinkprogress.org

For everyone else:

Search the website www.mediate.com for tips on how to resolve disputes.

For stress-handling tips, visit www.health.com/stress.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             173 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Trump proposes 2 women for Cabinet: DeVos for Education and Haley for U.N.

BYLINE: Julie Bykowicz and Steve Peoples; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 965 words

ABSTRACT

President-elect Donald Trump has chosen two women for his Cabinet-in-waiting:
South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations and prominent charter school advocate Betsy DeVos as his secretary of
education

FULL TEXT

PALM BEACH, Fla. >> Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald
Trump selected two Republican women on Wednesday who disparaged him during the
presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate Betsy DeVos to lead
the federal Department of Education.

Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet Trump praised her as "a proven
dealmaker." DeVos, like Trump, is new to government but has spent decades
working to change America's system of public education.

DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts
as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is
the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minority
selection after a string of announcements of white men.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role, which would make him the first black choice - presumably as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development - but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it
over the Thanksgiving holiday.

"I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our
inner cities great for everyone," Carson wrote on his Facebook page.

Wednesday's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the "alt-right,"
a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election.

He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with
family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving. He's
spending the holiday there after a week of interviews of potential appointees in
New York, punctuated by announcements of members of his national security team.

Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections was evident through much
of this year's campaign.

"The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley!" Trump wrote in
March. Haley denounced several of his campaign comments and urged voters to
"reject the siren call of the angriest voices."

DeVos told The Associated Press in July, "A lot of the things he has said are
very off-putting and concerning."

On Wednesday, Trump said of his U.N. selection: "Gov. Haley has a proven track
record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation
to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our
country."

She said she loved her South Carolina post but "when the president believes you
have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our
nation's standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed."

While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and
right.

The president of the National Education Association, Lily Eskelsen Garcia, said
in a statement that for years DeVos "has lobbied for failed schemes, like
vouchers - which take away funding and local control from our public schools -
to fund private schools at taxpayers' expense."

And Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, tweeted,
"Trump has chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the
creation of the Dept of Education."

At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor,
who has spent millions of dollars - along with her husband - to promote
candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the
Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign.

Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that
climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign
vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.

DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a "Q&A" statement that said directly
about Common Core: "I am not a supporter - period."

"I do support high standards," she said. But along the way Common Core "got
turned into a federal boondoggle."

Just two weeks ago, Trump shocked the political world - including many in his
own party - by winning the presidential contest. The billionaire New Yorker has
yet to take any formal steps to separate from his international business empire
as experts in both parties warn of potential conflicts of interest.

Trump will be sworn into office in less than 60 days. Beyond his Cabinet, he
must fill hundreds of high-level administration posts.

Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of
state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and
Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
formerly an outspoken Trump critic.

After secretary of state, the U.N. ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic
position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international
stage.

As for DeVos, her family has been active in Republican politics for decades,
especially as donors. Her husband, Dick, is an heir to the Amway fortune and a
former president of the company.

The American Federation for Children Action Fund, which DeVos chairs, and its
state-affiliated PACs invested in 121 races in 12 states in the general
election, spending $210,000 to support "pro-school choice" candidates in
Oklahoma alone.

"Under her leadership we will reform the U.S. education system and break the
bureaucracy that is holding our children back so that we can deliver world-class
education and school choice to all families," Trump said.

DeVos said in her own statement, "The status quo in education is not
acceptable."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             174 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

L.A. mayor, Trump talk

BYLINE: Anita Bennett and Ryan Carter; Staff Writers

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 641 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and President-elect Donald Trump hold phone
conversation.

FULL TEXT

Amid growing concerns among Los Angeles leaders about what the future may hold
when President-elect Donald Trump takes office, L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti spoke
with Trump on Wednesday by telephone in what was described as a "productive
conversation."

The two discussed "ways to expand infrastructure investments and opportunities
in communities across America," the mayor's spokeswoman Connie Llanos said in a
statement.

"Mayor Garcetti underlined the need for the federal government to continue being
a strong partner in these efforts," she said.

Among the other issues brought up during the call were L.A.'s Olympic bid -
which Trump voiced support for - and immigration, according to Llanos.

"The mayor stressed the important role that immigrants and immigration reform
will play in L.A.'s - and the nation's - long-term success," Llanos said.

Garcetti's office said that the mayor had reached out to the Trump camp, and the
president-elect placed the brief call. The office did not remark on the tone of
the conversation.

Trump has frequently spoken out about his desires to deport undocumented
immigrants, and in an interview with "60 Minutes" that aired on Nov. 13, he said
he planned to immediately deport 2 million to 3 million undocumented immigrants
who "have criminal records" after his inauguration.

Garcetti was a strong supporter of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary
Clinton and had been a frequent Trump critic.

In a July speech at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, Garcetti
had strong remarks for Trump.

"Donald Trump has no vision for our country, and no genuine answers to our
challenges," he said about the then-Republican nominee.

Months earlier, Garcetti called Trump the "ultimate caricature" of a politician
who would say anything to get elected.

"What we can't do with Donald Trump is normalize him as a candidate," Garcetti
said in a May 24 conference call with reporters. "He's a racist, he's a bigot,
he's sexist."

But on Wednesday, local leaders said the dialogue was vital, with much at stake
in the relationship between Washington and Los Angeles.

"I'm thrilled to hear that there is a dialogue," said L.A. City Councilman Mitch
Englander, who represents parts of the San Fernando Valley. "We have an
umbilical cord to federal dollars that can't be severed."

Councilman Jos[#xfffd] Huizar, whose district includes Boyle Heights, elaborated
on the city's needs.

"I hope they talked about our aging infrastructure and the lack of affordable
housing funds coming from the federal government and the need to ramp that
effort up," Huizar said in a statement, adding that Trump needed to know that
homeless funding was a huge challenge in a city where mental health issues
affect a third of those without shelter.

"And, of course, immigration - we hope the president-elect understands that we
are a city of immigrants and there is no advantage to anybody if we tear
families apart and remove children and young people from the only country they
have ever known and loved."

Garcetti's Wednesday conversation with Trump came one day after L.A. County
Supervisor Hilda Solis warned that changes to federal policy proposed by Trump
could lead to the deportation of nearly half a million county residents.

"It seems that standing up for our people's constitutional rights is going to
fall on the hands of state and local governments," Solis said Tuesday.

As she spoke during a news conference in downtown L.A., Solis said the Board of
Supervisors had unanimously approved a motion that asks the Sheriff's Department
and other law enforcement agencies "to proactively contact communities likely to
be targeted to reassure them of support of their policy of not inquiring about
immigration status of victims or witnesses."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             175 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Corbynization of Democratic Party

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 941 words


The Democratic Party's current festival of re-examination is both necessary and
justified. They have just lost to the most unpopular presidential candidate in
recent memory. Lockstep media support and a much larger war chest were not
enough to save them from losing not only the presidency, but also in state races
across the country.

Since President Obama's first election, Democrats have lost control of the House
and Senate, as well as a dozen governors' houses and roughly 900 state
legislative seats. Republicans have control of all levels of government in 24
states, while Democrats have total control over six. Overall, the party seems
incapable of reaching out to the middle part of the country, white and
middle-class voters.

This contrasts with the 1990s, when a group of party activists consciously
rebuilt the party to appeal to middle-class Americans. Groups like the
Democratic Leadership Council - for whose think tank, the Progressive Policy
Institute, I worked for several years - pushed notions of personal
responsibility, welfare reform, tough crime policies and economic growth that,
embraced by Bill Clinton, expanded the party's base in the Midwest, the
Appalachians and even the Southeast.

Leftward Ho!

Such a shift to the middle is unlikely today. Progressives generally see Hillary
Clinton's loss as largely a rejection of her husband's neoliberal policies and
want to push the party further to the left.

This parallels developments in the United Kingdom, where, following their defeat
in 2015, the La

bour Party promoted a far-left figure, Jeremy Corbyn, as its leader. This was
driven by grassroots progressives - deeply green, multiculturalist and openly
socialist. Many, including several high up in Labour's parliamentary party,
believe the party has little chance to win under such leadership.

Democrats face a similar dilemma. Driven by their dominant academic and media
"thought police," any shift to the middle on issues like crime, climate change
or regulation now seems unimaginable. Self-described progressives who now
dominate the party generally adhere to a series of policies - from open borders
to draconian climate change policies - that are unlikely to play well outside
the coastal enclaves.

Some of the criticism of Clintonian neoliberalism is somewhat justified. As the
emergence of both Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump suggests, support for
globalization and free trade has weakened in both parties. This reflects the
fact that economic gains have become increasingly concentrated since Clinton
left office, and even under the progressive hero, Barack Obama. It's hard to
argue, as the DLC did 25 years ago, for a more market-based system when the vast
majority fail to benefit while the upper echelons do much better.

So it is no surprise, then, that the hyperregulatory and redistributionist
agendas epitomized by Sens. Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders are now
ascendant. This pattern is exacerbated by the party's increasing indifference to
economic growth, in large part, due to their embrace of draconian climate change
policies. Climate change policies, as now constituted, tend to suppress
higher-wage, blue-collar employment. If you give up on growth to save the
planet, the only real solution remaining is massive redistribution, including a
web of subsidies to make up for the lack of income growth, affordable housing
and economic opportunity.

The multiculti trap

The Corbynization of the Democratic Party also turns on militant
multiculturalism. This agenda is shaped, as in Britain, by a disjointed concert
of grievance groups, ranging from gender activists to those who claim to
represent Latinos, African Americans, Asians, Muslims and others, whose
alienation has been exacerbated by Trump's triumph. Trump's nationalist rhetoric
is particularly disliked by progressives who, as author and New America fellow
Michael Lind notes in a recent National Review column, find the very idea of
borders and national interests reactionary and inherently racist.

This identity politics, some liberals note, has driven many whites into a
defensive crouch and pushed them toward the Republicans. Yet, there is little
sign that the party will move in their direction. After all, Hillary labeled
them "deplorables" - not much of a sales pitch. After the election, progressive
journalists have portrayed Trump voters as irredeemably racist, misogynist,
stupid and even too "fat." Summing up, suggests Slate's Jamelle Bouie, there's
no such thing as a "good Trump voter."

Inside the progressive echo chamber, many still believe that an alliance of
minorities, gender activists and millennials will make their victory inevitable.
This can be seen in the tendency of Democrats, just as there is a palpable rise
in crime, to invite the militant Black Lives Matter movement into their tent.

Perhaps nothing more illustrates the Corbynite trend than the proposal to make
Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
Ellison does check off the diversity boxes, but also would place in party
leadership someone who has embraced the Nation of Islam, supports the boycott of
Israeli products and has compared 9-11 to the Reichstag fire that facilitated
the Nazi dictatorship.

Going left may be emotionally satisfying to Democrats who feel abandoned by
their less progressive fellow citizens. But abandoning the middle of the
spectrum does not seem an effective way to get back into power.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             176 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Why Sanchez's hopes went south

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 634 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

Virtually every aspect of the presidential election has been broken down and
analyzed by experts and pundits, who are still in a state of shock over the
results. Because President-elect Donald Trump's victory caught almost everyone
by surprise, don't expect this analysis to slow down any time soon.

Getting lost in the shuffle were many of the down-ballot races that also
produced fascinating results.

Take for example, the contest to see who would replace retiring U.S. Sen.
Barbara Boxer as California's junior senator.

All of the public polls had Golden State Attorney General Kamala Harris
comfortably ahead of Orange County Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez in the Democrat
vs. Democrat match up. And I think it's safe to say that most experts
anticipated a comfortable Harris victory. What nobody expected was the 62-38
percent shellacking that Sanchez ended up taking.

There is no way to sugarcoat this, she got creamed.

Now, I'd be lying to you if I didn't say that the perennially undisciplined
Sanchez made a bunch of gaffes that contributed to her defeat.

She did.

But her missteps aren't what caused her to lose. The cake, in many ways, was
already baked.

Way back in July, the bigwigs in the Northern California-dominated California
Democratic Party put the word out that Harris was their preferred candidate.
This move effectively cut off any chance Sanchez had at raising money, winning
influential endorsements and getting the party rank and file behind her.

Not only did Harris pick up the endorsements of California Gov. Jerry Brown and
the California Democratic Party, she also got the blessing of President Obama
and Vice President Joe Biden.

In a written statement released by the Harris campaign, the president and vice
president said, "Kamala Harris fights for us. That's why I'm so proud to endorse
her for United States senator. ... And if you send her to the Senate, she'll be
a fearless fighter for the people of California - all the people of California -
every single day."

There's mass speculation that former San Francisco Mayor and current California
Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom could get the same kind of home cooking in his bid for
governor in 2018.

And If another former San Francisco Mayor, Dianne Feinstein, decides to seek
another six-year-term in the U.S. Senate in 2018, her support within the
Democratic Party will surely be locked down.

The most likely outcome is that the Northern California dominance of the state's
top-of-the-ticket offices will continue for another generation.

How did this happen when most of the state's population lives south of
Bakersfield? Easy. A clique of San Francisco Bay politicians control the
Democratic Party in a one-party state, and they take care of their friends and
neighbors.

Just look at the roster; Jerry Brown is a former mayor of Oakland, House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi represents San Francisco in Congress, California
Democratic Party Chairman John Burton used to represent San Francisco in the
state Legislature, and Democratic Party sugar daddy Tom Steyer resides in the
City by the Bay.

At a certain point, Southern California Democrats will have to accept the
reality that they've hit their political ceiling when they become a big-city
mayor or congressman, or a state legislative leader.

Or, they're going to have to beat the machine.

Option B is easier said than done and would require the type of
coalition-building that Sanchez was incapable of doing, which would almost
certainly involve California Republicans.

Eventually, some politician will beat the machine. The only question is when.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             177 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Red state/blue state: Where would you rather live?

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 715 words


"The pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue
states," Barack Obama famously observed in 2004, several years before he ran for
president. "But I've got news for them: There's the United States of America."

Twelve years later, Obama is about to depart the White House, and by now he has
probably learned there are significant differences between so-called "red"
states that tend to vote Republican in presidential elections and "blue" ones
that usually support Democrats. The colors, of course, come from maps often used
as television graphics during election coverage.

What are some of those differences? While campaigning - at least before Donald
Trump - Republicans have tended to focus on values, claiming families and
traditional marriages are stronger in red states than blue ones, while Democrats
contend poor people, minorities and women are better off in blue ones.

California, of course, has been a consistently blue state since 1992, when Bill
Clinton carried it with a plurality of the vote against the elder George Bush,
not winning an actual majority here until 1996.

Republicans often say California Democrats have wrecked the Golden State over
the last 25 years, citing what they insist is a declining quality of life and an
expanded role for government.

It's true Democrats have dominated the Legislature almost all that time, passing
laws that regulate everything from cellphone use in cars to teaching about gay
history in high schools. A "nanny state," many Republicans call it, ignoring the
fact Republican governors like Pete Wilson and Arnold Schwarzenegger signed off
on most of the new regulations Democrats passed in the last quarter-century.

Ethnically speaking, California became blue when its Latinos began to get
politically active. But in many other ways, this is statistically a pretty
standard blue state, and there are major differences between those states and
their red rivals. Here are some (based on U.S. Census data):

o Blue states tend to have a more educated populace; California is fairly
typical with 37.4 percent of adults holding college degrees. Deeply blue
Massachusetts (despite its Republican governor) ranks first in this category
with 53.4 percent of adults holding at least a bachelor's degree. At the bottom
in this category is a corps of red states including Alaska at 26.6 percent,
Texas at 32.2 percent and Arizona with 33 percent.

o Red states tend to have a far higher percentage of people abusing drugs, led
by West Virginia with 25.8 persons out of every 100,000 dying of drug overdoses
each year, Utah with 18.4 and Alaska 18.1 in 2008, the last year for which
statistics are available. Red states like Louisiana, Arizona, Alabama, Oklahoma
and Tennessee all topped 14 per 100,000 in this sad category. California, again
in drug abuse a fairly normal blue state, saw only 10.4 persons out of every
100,000 take fatal overdoses, both from illegal drugs and prescription ones.
(Statistics from the Policy Impact Report of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.)

o A little counterintuitive, the map of states with the highest Census-reported
divorce rates is also almost all red, including Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alaska,
Alabama, Kentucky, Nevada (the only blue state here, but also the only state
with an active quickie divorce industry), Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee and
Arizona.

o Unemployment, on the other hand, is a mixed bag. In the latest Department of
Labor statistics, three red states (Alaska, Louisiana and West Virginia) are
among the top six, with Alaska leading the unfortunate way at 6.7 percent, but
they are joined by three usually blue states (Illinois, New Mexico and the
District of Columbia).

o Red state citizens tend to be more charitable, with the eight states donating
the highest share of their personal income to charity - Utah, Mississippi,
Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina, Idaho, Arkansas and Georgia - all pretty
reliably Republican. (Data from the Chronicle of Philanthropy.)

All of which raises some questions: Do Republican "family values" equate to
higher divorce rates and lower college education? Does going Democratic make
people less charitable? Or are none of these things linked to politics at all?

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             178 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 359 words

ABSTRACT

For all LANG papers

FULL TEXT

We asked readers, What should be Donald Trump's top priority as president?


New president should let Constitution be his guide

Donald Trump's top priority should be to learn and understand the Constitution
and the complexity of the presidency. I'm totally devastated by the outcome of
this presidential election, which was predicated on hate, fear, racism, bigotry
and lies.

Having the likes of a man like Trump becoming president of the U.S. is
frightening. I am hoping that this glorious country of ours isn't decimated by
this uninformed man who truly doesn't know how the U.S. government operates.

The job of the president is too important to hand over to a man not qualified,
who has a volatile temperament and is thin-skinned to criticism.

- Lois Eisenberg, Valencia

First, close the border

Trump should close the border first, stop the chaos and support the border
guards.

- Patricia Serio, Covina

Quit while he's ahead?

President-elect Trump's top priority should be resigning from office before he's
impeached.

- Ray Sherman, Duarte

A neutral view of Trump

I don't know what to think about Donald Trump's plans. Some I support, others I
don't. Love him or deplore him, he's got everyone's attention and it's been a
compelling story to watch unfold. Who knows what drama, success and failures
will emerge in the next four years?

One concern is how all the major news media lost credibility with biased
reporting. I commend the newspaper for trying to remain neutral.

- Lynn Wood, Long Beach

Follow the popular vote

He lost by more than 2 million votes; he should accept that he was not the
choice of the American people, and not accept a prize that he did not earn. He
can instruct electors pledged to him to vote for the real winner: Hillary
Clinton.

Let him avoid the example of Sarah Palin, who learned she couldn't be the boss
of everything and quit in the middle of her term as Alaska governor to make more
money.

- Stephen Kandis, Rancho Palos Verdes

More answers to this Question of the Week will be published Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             179 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Red state/blue state: Where would you rather live?

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 715 words


"The pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue
states," Barack Obama famously observed in 2004, several years before he ran for
president. "But I've got news for them: There's the United States of America."

Twelve years later, Obama is about to depart the White House, and by now he has
probably learned there are significant differences between so-called "red"
states that tend to vote Republican in presidential elections and "blue" ones
that usually support Democrats. The colors, of course, come from maps often used
as television graphics during election coverage.

What are some of those differences? While campaigning - at least before Donald
Trump - Republicans have tended to focus on values, claiming families and
traditional marriages are stronger in red states than blue ones, while Democrats
contend poor people, minorities and women are better off in blue ones.

California, of course, has been a consistently blue state since 1992, when Bill
Clinton carried it with a plurality of the vote against the elder George Bush,
not winning an actual majority here until 1996.

Republicans often say California Democrats have wrecked the Golden State over
the last 25 years, citing what they insist is a declining quality of life and an
expanded role for government.

It's true Democrats have dominated the Legislature almost all that time, passing
laws that regulate everything from cellphone use in cars to teaching about gay
history in high schools. A "nanny state," many Republicans call it, ignoring the
fact Republican governors like Pete Wilson and Arnold Schwarzenegger signed off
on most of the new regulations Democrats passed in the last quarter-century.

Ethnically speaking, California became blue when its Latinos began to get
politically active. But in many other ways, this is statistically a pretty
standard blue state, and there are major differences between those states and
their red rivals. Here are some (based on U.S. Census data):

o Blue states tend to have a more educated populace; California is fairly
typical with 37.4 percent of adults holding college degrees. Deeply blue
Massachusetts (despite its Republican governor) ranks first in this category
with 53.4 percent of adults holding at least a bachelor's degree. At the bottom
in this category is a corps of red states including Alaska at 26.6 percent,
Texas at 32.2 percent and Arizona with 33 percent.

o Red states tend to have a far higher percentage of people abusing drugs, led
by West Virginia with 25.8 persons out of every 100,000 dying of drug overdoses
each year, Utah with 18.4 and Alaska 18.1 in 2008, the last year for which
statistics are available. Red states like Louisiana, Arizona, Alabama, Oklahoma
and Tennessee all topped 14 per 100,000 in this sad category. California, again
in drug abuse a fairly normal blue state, saw only 10.4 persons out of every
100,000 take fatal overdoses, both from illegal drugs and prescription ones.
(Statistics from the Policy Impact Report of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.)

o A little counterintuitive, the map of states with the highest Census-reported
divorce rates is also almost all red, including Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alaska,
Alabama, Kentucky, Nevada (the only blue state here, but also the only state
with an active quickie divorce industry), Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee and
Arizona.

o Unemployment, on the other hand, is a mixed bag. In the latest Department of
Labor statistics, three red states (Alaska, Louisiana and West Virginia) are
among the top six, with Alaska leading the unfortunate way at 6.7 percent, but
they are joined by three usually blue states (Illinois, New Mexico and the
District of Columbia).

o Red state citizens tend to be more charitable, with the eight states donating
the highest share of their personal income to charity - Utah, Mississippi,
Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina, Idaho, Arkansas and Georgia - all pretty
reliably Republican. (Data from the Chronicle of Philanthropy.)

All of which raises some questions: Do Republican "family values" equate to
higher divorce rates and lower college education? Does going Democratic make
people less charitable? Or are none of these things linked to politics at all?

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             180 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 359 words

ABSTRACT

For all LANG papers

FULL TEXT

We asked readers, What should be Donald Trump's top priority as president?


New president should let Constitution be his guide

Donald Trump's top priority should be to learn and understand the Constitution
and the complexity of the presidency. I'm totally devastated by the outcome of
this presidential election, which was predicated on hate, fear, racism, bigotry
and lies.

Having the likes of a man like Trump becoming president of the U.S. is
frightening. I am hoping that this glorious country of ours isn't decimated by
this uninformed man who truly doesn't know how the U.S. government operates.

The job of the president is too important to hand over to a man not qualified,
who has a volatile temperament and is thin-skinned to criticism.

- Lois Eisenberg, Valencia

First, close the border

Trump should close the border first, stop the chaos and support the border
guards.

- Patricia Serio, Covina

Quit while he's ahead?

President-elect Trump's top priority should be resigning from office before he's
impeached.

- Ray Sherman, Duarte

A neutral view of Trump

I don't know what to think about Donald Trump's plans. Some I support, others I
don't. Love him or deplore him, he's got everyone's attention and it's been a
compelling story to watch unfold. Who knows what drama, success and failures
will emerge in the next four years?

One concern is how all the major news media lost credibility with biased
reporting. I commend the newspaper for trying to remain neutral.

- Lynn Wood, Long Beach

Follow the popular vote

He lost by more than 2 million votes; he should accept that he was not the
choice of the American people, and not accept a prize that he did not earn. He
can instruct electors pledged to him to vote for the real winner: Hillary
Clinton.

Let him avoid the example of Sarah Palin, who learned she couldn't be the boss
of everything and quit in the middle of her term as Alaska governor to make more
money.

- Stephen Kandis, Rancho Palos Verdes

More answers to this Question of the Week will be published Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             181 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Outsider, insider sought for cabinet;
Mnuchin is eyed for Treasury; Chao would lead Transportation

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 533 words


WASHINGTON >> Steven Terner Mnuchin, a financier with deep roots on Wall Street
and in Hollywood but no government experience, is expected to be named Donald J.
Trump's Treasury secretary as soon as today, sources close to the transition
say.

On Tuesday, Trump named Elaine Chao, someone with previous government experience
and a husband who's Republican leader in the Senate, as his choice to be the
next secretary of transportation.

Mnuchin, 53, was the national finance chairman for Trump's campaign. He began
his career at Goldman Sachs, where he became a partner, before creating his own
hedge fund, mov

ing to the West Coast and entering the first rank of movie financiers by
bankrolling hits like the "X-Men" franchise and "Avatar."

As Treasury secretary, Mnuchin would play an important role in shaping the
administration's economic policies, including a package of promised tax cuts,
increased spending on infrastructure and changes in the terms of foreign trade.
He could also help lead any effort to roll back President Barack Obama's nuclear
deal with Iran and opening to Cuba by reimposing sanctions on Tehran and Havana.

His selection fits uneasily with much of Trump's campaign rhetoric attacking the
financial industry. Trump, in a campaign ad intended as a closing argument,
portrayed the chief executive of Goldman Sachs as the personification of a
global elite that the ad said had "robbed our working class."

But Mnuchin has said that he agrees with Trump's priorities, and he was an early
supporter of a candidate who clearly prizes loyalty.

When Trump won New York's Republican presidential primary in April, Mnuchin
attended the victory party. The next day, he accepted Trump's invitation to
become the campaign's national finance director.

Chao, nominated for transportation secretary, is an immigrant and a fixture of
the Republican establishment for two decades. She is a savvy and professional
practitioner of the capital's inside game.

Chao's selection signaled Trump's understanding of the need to surround himself
with people who can help him accomplish the most ambitious parts of his agenda,
even if they come from the political establishment he has so often scorned.

His transportation secretary is likely to be one of the more essential players.
Trump, a real estate magnate, has said that infrastructure redevelopment will be
a priority of his first 100 days in office. And Chao has experience -
politically and personally - in navigating the competing centers of power in the
capital. She is married to Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the majority leader.

This will be her second time serving in a White House Cabinet if she is
confirmed. As secretary of labor under President George W. Bush, she was the
only official in his administration to serve all eight years.

Return of Romney

The president-elect summoned a former foe, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney, for dinner Tuesday night to discuss the secretary of state job for a
second time.

Trump also met with Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, having met with former CIA director David Petraeus the day
before.

The New York Times and Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             182 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Rep. Xavier Becerra nominated for California attorney general

BYLINE: Jonathan J. Cooper and Don Thompson; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 679 words

ABSTRACT

Gov. Jerry Brown on Thursday named a high-profile member of Congress to be
California's next attorney general, an appointment that likely will help
preserve the soon-departing governor's record on climate change and criminal
justice changes

FULL TEXT

SACRAMENTO >> The longtime Democratic congressman slated to become California's
next attorney general immediately took a combative stance against Republican
President-elect Donald Trump's incoming administration after being named to the
post Thursday, promising to defend the state's liberal stances on recreational
marijuana, climate change, health care, immigration and criminal justice.

"If you want to take on a forward-leaning state that is prepared to defend its
rights and interests, then come at us," U.S. Rep. Xavier Becerra said hours
after he was appointed by Gov. Jerry Brown.

Becerra, 58, said he was "stunned" to be selected by the Democratic governor to
succeed newly elected U.S. Sen. Kamala Harris. But he said he pledged during his
telephone interview with the governor to build on some of the issues that Brown
hopes to preserve as part of his record when he is termed out of office in two
years.

That includes keeping California "the clean energy superpower of the country,"
protecting otherwise law-abiding immigrants even if they are in the country
illegally, and building on Brown's changes that reduce mass prison
incarceration, Becerra said. He also will seek to protect the state's broad
implementation of President Barack Obama's health care law that Trump has
pledged to unwind.

"We're always ahead of the rest of the pack and we should be prepared to defend
that," Becerra told reporters on a conference call.

Brown emphasized in appointing Becerra that he expects him to "help our state
aggressively combat climate change," an area where the governor has been
critical of Trump and the Republican-led Congress.

Becerra's selection reshuffles the Latino power structure in the nation's most
populous state and nationally. As Democratic caucus chairman, Becerra is the
highest ranking Latino in Congress, where he has served since 1992.

"Becerra might now be the most prominent Latino politician in the country,
particularly when it comes to the debate over immigration policy," said Dan
Schnur, director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics the University of
Southern California.

"Jerry Brown has declared war on Washington, D.C. and he's appointed Xavier
Becerra to lead that fight," Schnur said. But rather than choose a radical
bomb-thrower, Schnur said Brown wisely chose a Washington veteran "who's going
to lead a forceful resistance but not an obnoxious one."

Becerra is a rising star in the party who served as a high-profile Latino
surrogate for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton's campaign this
year. He was widely discussed as a potential cabinet appointee if Clinton won.

He now lives in Los Angeles but recalled growing up in Sacramento as a son of
poor, hard-working immigrants. He noted he was the first in his family to
graduate from college, obtaining both bachelor of arts and law degrees from
Stanford University, and said his goal is to offer the same opportunities to
others.

But with the election of Trump and a Republican sweep of both houses of
Congress, his 24-year tenure in the House is no longer as appealing as becoming
the state's chief law enforcement officer. In the attorney general's position,
Becerra could serve through 2018 and then seek another eight years after that.

Law enforcement leaders said they look forward to working with Becerra, who was
a deputy attorney general for three years before he began his political career
in 1990. But the head of the National Federation of Independent Business in
California panned Becerra's "long, dismal voting record on important small
business issues."

The choice immediately adds Becerra to the long list of California Democrats who
could be contenders for governor or the U.S. Senate, said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe,
a public policy professor and political analyst at the University of Southern
California.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             183 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Don't back off from freedom of global trade

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 557 words

ABSTRACT

FRIDAY MAIN EDIT

FULL TEXT

Campaigning is one thing. Governing, especially at the presidential level is
another. Some know this intuitively. Others learn in a hard school.

Both major party presidential candidates this year came out against the complex
trade pact called the Trans-Pacific Partnership. They knew that, especially for
workers, and out-of-workers, in America's heartland, free trade with other
nations can seem like a fool's bargain. These agreements with low-wage nations
understandably look like an unfair deal that end up destroying American
manufacturing jobs.

It's much easier to say that on the hustings than to go into an eggheady
economic analysis about the efficiencies of world markets raising all boats.

But the fact of the matter is that Hillary Clinton changed her position on the
TPP for strategic reasons after she had supported the trade agreement as
secretary of state.

And one arm of President-elect Donald Trump's business empire sells clothes made
in China and elsewhere in the Far East. He knows better than the rest of us that
slapping a 45 percent tariff on a silk necktie would not make it any easier to
sell.

Nor would doing so be anything like a bargain for the American consumer. Those
incredible deals at Walmart on T-shirts, and dress shirts, made in Bangladesh
and Colombia are made possible by trade agreements such as NAFTA and TPP, which,
by the way, includes thousands of tax cuts for American businesses that would
make trade a better two-way street for our country's exporters as well as
importers.

The benefits of free trade are one of the key elements of international commerce
on which economists on the right, the center and the left all agree. Running the
numbers, it turns out that the best way to increase prosperity in all the
nations of the world is to allow each country's economy to do what it does best.
Chinese companies manufacture iPhones and clothing more efficiently than we do
here. We're a whole lot better, for instance, at postsecondary education - six
of the top 10 universities in the world are American - and at creating
intellectual property, with eight of the top 10 brands, from Apple to Visa,
being American.

The incoming president, in a different role than campaigner, will do well to
continue to fine-tune trade agreements in the American interest rather than
cancel them.

Protectionism is a misnomer- trade wars protect no one, creating equal and
opposite reactions from other countries that would greatly harm American workers
and consumers. And the fact is that presidents on their own can only increase
tariffs 15 percent, and then only for 150 days, unless a state of emergency is
declared, an unlikely scenario.

One clear way for a new administration to increase the efficiencies free trade
creates is to call out China's blatant cheating on some of the agreements in
place, from its subsidizing the price of rice and wheat to its currency
manipulation to its stealing patented ideas to its hacking into our companies'
email systems to its counterfeiting of our brands.

Demanding compliance with current and future trade agreements, rather than
backing away from them or pretending that discredited protectionist policies
would help the average American, is the courageous course the new administration
must take if it wants to ensure prosperity for our nation.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             184 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

An opportunity, not a mandate

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1129 words

ABSTRACT

Brian Calle on election

FULL TEXT


A presidential election victory is not a mandate. In fact, winning a
presidential election never is, despite the opinion of too many pundits. Even
Republican President Ronald Reagan recognized this when he won a landslide
re-election in 1984, winning 49 states and garnering 525 electoral votes.

In the aftermath of that election, Reagan pushed bipartisan support of laws he
signed and ensured his Republican Party worked with Democrats in Congress.

Despite the opinion of some, President-elect Trump's victory is not a mandate,
either, and not because he lost the popular vote or because we are coming out of
the most divisive election cycle in modern history, where many in the country
are viewing his imminent presidency with a great deal of skepticism and concern.
It's because when a president or a political party treats any one election as a
mandate and overreaches, it quickly loses the reins of power.

After his historic 2008 victory, President Obama had the wind at his back.
Democrats regained the presidency after eight years and held majorities in both
the Senate and the House of Representatives. His party was unified and poised
for potentially unparalleled legislative achievement, believing that the country
had endorsed an ambitious progressive agenda.

Early in his presidential tenure, Obama pushed what would ultimately become his
signature legislative achievement - the Affordable Care Act (colloquially
referred to as Obamacare). It was pushed through Congress without a single
Republican vote in either the House or the Senate, in the face of widespread
public opposition to the legislation.

That single action started a chain of events, beginning with a revolt by voters
in 2010, costing President Obama's Democratic Party to lose its majority in the
House and drop six seats in the Senate. It is also what spawned the Tea Party,
and, thus, the beginnings of an early base of support for Trump, a political
figure who personifies all that Obama demonized.

Ever since, Obama has had a combative relationship with Congress devoid of
mutual trust or admiration. Republicans in Congress bear some of the blame, as
they refused to work with Obama.

The result is unfortunate: Since 2010, President Obama has had no other major
legislative achievements. Contrast that with former Presidents Bill Clinton and
Reagan - both who faced Congresses controlled by the opposition party - and you
will see a stark contrast in approach and, thus, accomplishment. In fact, Reagan
had a rule that he would not sign a bill into law without at least some
Democratic support, and Clinton's penchant for political deal-making was the
hallmark of his success as president.

For the last six years in Washington, compromise was replaced with contempt.
Polarization has overtaken collaboration and it's become more politically
expedient to bash political opponents than to find common ground.

President Obama's response to the gridlock was to attempt to legislate by fiat,
that is, to use executive orders to sidestep a Congress that he chastised as
being controlled by the "Party of no." As Marc Thiessen wrote for the Washington
Post, "The reason Obama's legacy is so vulnerable today is that the 44th
president relied more on executive actions - issuing not only executive orders,
but also a record number of rules, regulations and agency directives to
legislate around Congress and impose his agenda."

Thiessen also recalled: "After he lost control of the Senate in 2014, Obama
announced at his first Cabinet meeting: 'We're not just going to be waiting for
legislation. ... I've got a pen and I've got a phone. And I can use that pen to
sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that
move the ball forward.'"

What this means, though, is on Day One in office, President Trump could undo
every single one of the actions Obama made with his pen and phone. That's why
the role of the president is not that of a legislator, but instead a
collaborative role that must persuade and work with Congress to pass legislation
by a large enough margin that the next president and Congress will not undo it.

Now Trump, winning an even more alienating campaign than either of the two that
Obama won, must grapple with the realities of governing an even more divided
country. The Republican Party will control the White House, the Senate and the
House of Representatives, but if it overreaches it will face the same kind of
backlash Democrats and President Obama felt in the 2010 and 2014 elections.

Brian Calle is opinion editor for the Southern California News Group.

proach and, thus, accomplishment. In fact, Reagan had a rule that he would not
sign a bill into law without at least some Democratic support, and Clinton's
penchant for political deal-making was the hallmark of his success as president.

For the last six years in Washington, compromise was replaced with contempt.
Polarization has overtaken collaboration and it's become more politically
expedient to bash political opponents than to find common ground.

President Obama's response to the gridlock was to attempt to legislate by fiat,
that is, to use executive orders to sidestep a Congress that he chastised as
being controlled by the "Party of no." As Marc Thiessen wrote for the Washington
Post, "The reason Obama's legacy is so vulnerable today is that the 44th
president relied more on executive actions - issuing not only executive orders,
but also a record number of rules, regulations and agency directives to
legislate around Congress and impose his agenda."

Thiessen also recalled: "After he lost control of the Senate in 2014, Obama
announced at his first Cabinet meeting: 'We're not just going to be waiting for
legislation. ... I've got a pen and I've got a phone. And I can use that pen to
sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that
move the ball forward.'"

What this means, though, is on Day One in office, President Trump could undo
every single one of the actions Obama made with his pen and phone. That's why
the role of the president is not that of a legislator, but instead a
collaborative role that must persuade and work with Congress to pass legislation
by a large enough margin that the next president and Congress will not undo it.

Now Trump, winning an even more alienating campaign than either of the two that
Obama won, must grapple with the realities of governing an even more divided
country. The Republican Party will control the White House, the Senate and the
House of Representatives, but if it overreaches it will face the same kind of
backlash Democrats and President Obama felt in the 2010 and 2014 elections.

Brian Calle is opinion editor for the Southern California News Group.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             185 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Five ideas to make America greater

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1685 words


Donald Trump's presidential campaign was based on the notion that he could "Make
America Great Again." But beyond the rhetoric - sometimes lurching into
demagoguery - the newly elected president comes to office, as one commentator
suggests, "the least policy-savvy president in history."

To succeed, Trump must adopt innovative policies that transcend traditional
right-left divides. He needs to find ways to help his heavily white,
working-class base while expanding his appeal to minorities, millennials and
educated people who are now largely horrified by his ascendency.

In the short run, his biggest problem may lie with his own Republican Party
establishment, which, rather than "drain the swamp," would simply like to create
one of its own. The looming presence of corporate lobbyists, swarming around the
administration like hungry flies, is not encouraging at all, nor are GOP
congressional plans to re-establish "earmarks."

The key lies not in empowering a different set of K Street parasites, but rather
in reversing income stagnation. If he cannot, his triumph may prove to be no
more consequential than an absurdist, Latin American-style telenovela.

A flatter, fairer tax

The basic instinct among many Republicans tends toward reducing taxes on their
richest donors and making life easier for the ultrarich, including some on
Trump's economic team. Trump's imperative should, instead, be to make the tax
system fairer for the middle and working classes. One way would be to make a
graduated flat tax that would mean that the rich, who make most of their money
from investments, pay the same rate for capital gains as the rest of us do for
income.

Democrats will, no doubt, still charge Trump with being "unfair," but, as Ronald
Reagan proved 20 years ago, Americans support incentives for work if they don't
unfairly tilt conditions to the ultrarich. Main Street business owners, the most
hostile constituency to the Obama administration's policies, pay taxes based on
their income and can't manipulate the system like Apple, Google, Wall Streeters
or, for that matter, real estate developers like Trump himself.

A middle ground for immigration

Opposition to illegal immigration helped drive the Trump campaign early on, but,
outside of the GOP base, there is little support for a mass roundup of the
undocumented. The vast majority of Americans, over 70 percent, also oppose "open
borders." After all, even President Obama evicted 2 million people during his
two terms in office.

Trump also can begin reordering our immigration policies toward skilled workers
who are interested in becoming citizens. At the same time, Trump could score
points by undermining the H1-B visa program, which allows Silicon Valley firms,
along with corporations like Disney and Southern California Edison, to lay off
American workers and replace them with temporary indentured servants.

Unleash the energy industry

Much of the growth in America during the first six years of the Obama
administration came from energy, which added 500,000 jobs between 2004 and 2014,
much of them concentrated in the Trumpian heartland of the upper Midwest,
Appalachia and the Texas-Oklahoma-Louisiana "oil patch." Now, under pressure
from low prices, Trump may consider ways to encourage our domestic producers.

Since he is not a free trade ideologue, Trump could position his policy as one
way to keep from being dependent on lunatic Middle Eastern states - or even his
good friend Vladimir Putin. The energy industry and manufacturing, unlike high
tech, employ large numbers of not only of white, working-class people, but also
Latinos and African Americans, and generally at high wages.

Localism

This election proved how deeply divided Americans are, both by class and
geography. The fearful reaction on the Left to Trump's election reveals how
dependent our politics have become on the "imperial presidency." One way to
defuse the worry would be to cede more control from Washington to the
localities.

We should let the leaders of the "Left Coast," if they so wish, wear green
energy hair shirts, legalize marijuana, boost the minimum wage dramatically,
suppress suburban housing and dictate transgender bathrooms. If the middle of
the country does not want to follow suit, that's just fine, as long as they
protect basic human rights. A country as diverse and divided cannot be
effectively ruled by a central government that goes increasingly into areas that
were once largely controlled locally.

Infrastructure

To succeed, Trump must look as much to the model of Franklin D. Roosevelt as
Ronald Reagan. A large basic infrastructure plan - long the purview of the
federal government - would employ many blue-collar workers, including many
minorities. This stimulus should be directed to those areas and industries more
open to his administration, such as trucking, warehousing, energy and basic
manufacturing. Much of the work should be in the areas that backed Trump - the
South, where growth is strongest, and also in the Midwest and Great Plains,
where much of the basic road, bridge and energy infrastructure is outdated.

Ultimately, Trump's success depends on securing the economic interests of his
core supporters. To expand his coalition, he needs show how his program helps
not just his core base but also broader parts of the population who likewise
have felt short-changed in this economy, and deserve a better future.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

to be no more consequential than an absurdist, Latin American-style telenovela.

A flatter, fairer tax

The basic instinct among many Republicans tends toward reducing taxes on their
richest donors and making life easier for the ultrarich, including some on
Trump's economic team. Trump's imperative should, instead, be to make the tax
system fairer for the middle and working classes. One way would be to make a
graduated flat tax that would mean that the rich, who make most of their money
from investments, pay the same rate for capital gains as the rest of us do for
income.

Democrats will, no doubt, still charge Trump with being "unfair," but, as Ronald
Reagan proved 20 years ago, Americans support incentives for work if they don't
unfairly tilt conditions to the ultrarich. Main Street business owners, the most
hostile constituency to the Obama administration's policies, pay taxes based on
their income and can't manipulate the system like Apple, Google, Wall Streeters
or, for that matter, real estate developers like Trump himself.

A middle ground for immigration

Opposition to illegal immigration helped drive the Trump campaign early on, but,
outside of the GOP base, there is little support for a mass roundup of the
undocumented. The vast majority of Americans, over 70 percent, also oppose "open
borders." After all, even President Obama evicted 2 million people during his
two terms in office.

Trump also can begin reordering our immigration policies toward skilled workers
who are interested in becoming citizens. At the same time, Trump could score
points by undermining the H1-B visa program, which allows Silicon Valley firms,
along with corporations like Disney and Southern California Edison, to lay off
American workers and replace them with temporary indentured servants.

Unleash the energy industry

Much of the growth in America during the first six years of the Obama
administration came from energy, which added 500,000 jobs between 2004 and 2014,
much of them concentrated in the Trumpian heartland of the upper Midwest,
Appalachia and the Texas-Oklahoma-Louisiana "oil patch." Now, under pressure
from low prices, Trump may consider ways to encourage our domestic producers.

Since he is not a free trade ideologue, Trump could position his policy as one
way to keep from being dependent on lunatic Middle Eastern states - or even his
good friend Vladimir Putin. The energy industry and manufacturing, unlike high
tech, employ large numbers of not only of white, working-class people, but also
Latinos and African Americans, and generally at high wages.

Localism

This election proved how deeply divided Americans are, both by class and
geography. The fearful reaction on the Left to Trump's election reveals how
dependent our politics have become on the "imperial presidency." One way to
defuse the worry would be to cede more control from Washington to the
localities.

We should let the leaders of the "Left Coast," if they so wish, wear green
energy hair shirts, legalize marijuana, boost the minimum wage dramatically,
suppress suburban housing and dictate transgender bathrooms. If the middle of
the country does not want to follow suit, that's just fine, as long as they
protect basic human rights. A country as diverse and divided cannot be
effectively ruled by a central government that goes increasingly into areas that
were once largely controlled locally.

Infrastructure

To succeed, Trump must look as much to the model of Franklin D. Roosevelt as
Ronald Reagan. A large basic infrastructure plan - long the purview of the
federal government - would employ many blue-collar workers, including many
minorities. This stimulus should be directed to those areas and industries more
open to his administration, such as trucking, warehousing, energy and basic
manufacturing. Much of the work should be in the areas that backed Trump - the
South, where growth is strongest, and also in the Midwest and Great Plains,
where much of the basic road, bridge and energy infrastructure is outdated.

Ultimately, Trump's success depends on securing the economic interests of his
core supporters. To expand his coalition, he needs show how his program helps
not just his core base but also broader parts of the population who likewise
have felt short-changed in this economy, and deserve a better future.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             186 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Dems should resist urge to go farther left

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 651 words


Democrats are afraid, and not just of President-elect Donald Trump.

After years spent preparing for a Clinton presidency under the illusion that
culture war politics conquered all, they now fear that Republicans - who control
32 state legislatures and counting - will act as if their only opposition clings
to a strip of coastline along the Atlantic and the Pacific. But in the Golden
State, where Democrats reign supreme, a parallel universe is setting in. Rather
than moderating their rule to encourage Republicans nationwide to seek common
ground, California Democrats want to make their state more of a leftist utopia
than ever.

This is a mistake. California provides Democrats with a badly needed safe space
to show they can govern without being captive to the culturally revolutionary
vanguard that has pushed so many voters into the arms of Trump's GOP.

If Democrats want to make a credible case that Republicans should exercise
magnanimity and restraint over the next four years as they set a national policy
agenda, they should refocus on a broadly appealing agenda that pays heed to
California's dwindling middle class and its pinched working class. The
old-fashioned circumspection of Gov. Jerry Brown should be more of a model going
forward than the cutting-edge, aggressive progressivism of Gavin Newsom or
Kamala Harris.

Certainly, California is already one of the most socially liberal states in the
union. But, as its many libertarians can attest, the accommodating and
permissive spirit that has worked best for California has largely been an
organic one, rising up from residents' progressively shifting habits and mores.
Meanwhile, enforced, top-down "liberalism" has mostly sown intractable conflict,
squandering valuable time and energy on matters that hardly bear on the basic
hallmarks of successful governance: a robust economy, judicious lawmaking and a
society with a healthy, stable middle tier of producers, consumers and
neighbors. Democrats should have anticipated the disappointments of a rainbow
coalition built around an identity politics of grievance, even if, in
California's parallel universe, rose-colored glasses made it difficult.

But recent news reports have revealed that one leading Democrat did push for a
different approach - Bill Clinton, the man responsible for his party's return
from narrow margins in national politics after three consecutive Republican
administrations. Clinton "repeatedly pushed his wife's campaign to do more
outreach to economically distressed white communities by prioritizing her
populist economic message," as Vanity Fair has noted. "But her advisors refused,
believing that Hillary would do better by appealing to minorities and
college-educated suburban voters."

He begged in vain for his wife to accept an invitation to address a St.
Patrick's Day event at the University of Notre Dame. "But Mrs. Clinton's
campaign refused, explaining to the organizers that white Catholics were not the
audience she needed to spend time reaching out to," the New York Times recently
reported.

White, working-class voters who broke for Obama flipped to Trump and the GOP
across the Rust Belt, deciding the election.

Democrats who want to regain the trust of those Obama voters have much work to
do in the Midwest states that turned against them this year. But the real proof
of a party-wide rethink will have to come from the deepest blue states, and no
blue state is more Democratic than California.

Gov. Brown has hardly governed as a bloodless centrist, but he has consistently
curbed some of his party's least productive adventures in utopianism and
identity politics. Although California's rising generation of leading Democrats
often seem to think of an archliberal agenda as not just their prerogative, but
rather their destiny, if they fail to reckon with the wisdom of an earlier
political age, soon they'll really have something to worry about.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             187 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

By accident, media helped Trump

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 627 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

A lot of people were shocked by the result of the presidential election, but I
think it's safe to say the only people more stunned than Hillary Clinton and her
supporters were the news media. And by the media, I mean all of them.

It didn't matter which network you were watching, as each anchor called the
election for Donald Trump they all had the same expression of complete and total
bewilderment on their faces. The only thing I can compare it to is the look that
attorney Robert Kardashian had on his kisser when the jury foreman read the O.J.
Simpson verdict.

The conventional wisdom was that since Trump was hit with the kitchen sink on a
daily basis, there was no way he could cobble together the necessary 270
electoral votes to win the election.

But he did.

And I actually think the media's palpable disdain for the Manhattan billionaire
ended up helping him with the American people.

Never before has there been an election where the news media so overtly picked a
side. This was true across all platforms - broadcast, entertainment and print -
almost everybody in my profession wanted Hillary to win.

Writing in Time magazine, Univision and Fusion anchor Jorge Ramos insisted, "It
doesn't matter who you are - a journalist, a politician or a voter - we'll all
be judged by how we responded to Donald Trump. Like it or not, this election is
a plebiscite on the most divisive, polarizing and disrupting figure in American
politics in decades. And neutrality is not an option."

And then Ramos went even further, saying, "Trump has forced journalists to
revisit rules of objectivity and fairness. Just providing both points of view is
not enough in the current presidential campaign. If a candidate is making racist
and sexist remarks, we cannot hide in the principle of neutrality. That's a
false equivalence."

Ramos' remarks were celebrated by his peers.

The Philadelphia Enquirer went so far as to editorialize, "You call Jorge Ramos
'an advocacy journalist'? If so, America needs 10,000 more like him."

On "The Tonight Show,' host Jimmy Fallon invited Trump on as a guest and treated
him the same way he would treat any other political candidate. As a result, he
was excoriated.

Jo Miller, an executive producer of "Full Frontal with Samantha Bee" on TBS,
said in an interview with The New York Times that seeing Fallon's interview of
Trump "was a punch in the gut."

Miller explained, "This is not a race between Democrat and Republican - this is
a race between Democrat and demagogue. You don't normalize someone who's
inciting violence."

And then you have the Huffington Post, which decided to print all of its
Trump-related news in the 'entertainment' section of the website along with the
outrageous editors note, "Donald Trump regularly incites political violence and
is a serial liar, rampant xenophobe, racist, misogynist and birther who has
repeatedly pledged to ban all Muslims - 1.6 billion members of an entire
religion - from entering the U.S."

In response to this blanket side-picking, most Americans just decided to tune
the media out - because they knew they weren't honest brokers.

Whenever a news outlet would unveil yet another hit piece on Trump, it would
largely fall on deaf ears instead of having an impact on the race.

A week and change after the election, two things are clear - the media have lost
their influence over the electorate, and it helped Donald Trump.

If they want to get their good name back, and recapture the attention of half of
America, there's only one way to do it - go back to playing it straight.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             188 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Why we are still waiting for Madam President

BYLINE: Lori Cox Han

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 899 words

ABSTRACT

Lori Cox Han on Clinton loss

FULL TEXT

Obviously, a Hillary Clinton presidency would have been historic. The symbolism
of Clinton's inauguration as the first women president would have resonated
world-wide as a mark of the progress that American women have achieved in all
walks of life. Instead, the post-mortem is well underway about why, despite all
the polls and pundit predictions, Clinton lost.

Many are pointing to sexism as the main culprit, yet no empirical evidence
exists to back it up. We know that sexist and misogynistic views exist within
our society, and that negative stereotypes about women are constantly promoted
within our mass media. However, proving a link between sexist views and voting
behavior, with any validity, is impossible. Public opinion polls for years have
shown support for electing a woman president, suggesting that a majority of
Americans are not deterred by a woman candidate. Partisanship was more than
likely the deciding factor in 2016 as severe polarization has continued among
the American electorate, as were economic issues as evidenced by Donald Trump's
success in the Rust Belt.

Similarly, gender bias in news coverage is also a popular theory for why Clinton
lost. While sexist and misogynistic language exists, particularly online and in
social media, there is no empirical evidence to suggest this can effect voter
preference or turnout. If a blogger or cable news pundit writes or says
something offensive about a woman candidate, are we to believe that can
translate into hundreds of thousands or even millions of voters refusing to
support her? That assessment defies logic. Obviously, sexism can have a harmful
effect when considering the broader issue of political socialization through the
mass media, but we should not overinflate its importance as it relates to
political news and voting behavior. Not only has research shown that
frontrunners get more negative coverage (which Clinton was in 2008 and 2016),
but also that public criticism of sexist attacks can eliminate the effectiveness
and make it seem less credible.

Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign built extensively on the support she earned
in her campaign for the Democratic nomination in 2008. She won the Democratic
nomination with 34 primary and caucus victories and a total of 17 million votes.
She broke every fundraising record with the $500 million she raised this
campaign cycle (not to mention the nearly $200 million in Super PAC funds). In
the general election, she won 19 states plus the District of Columbia, 232
electoral votes, and will win the popular vote. To say that American voters
can't or won't vote for a woman for president no longer holds credibility.

A closer examination of Clinton as a candidate is where we see many compelling
reasons for her loss. I am on record that Clinton was an "inherently flawed
candidate," which left me skeptical for years that she could actually win the
presidency. During this campaign, she was under investigation by the FBI for
both her use of a private email server and fundraising at the Clinton Foundation
while secretary of state. That, along with the baggage from her husband's long
political career, reinforced the negative perceptions many Americans have had of
the Clintons for years.

A majority of voters did not trust her, nor did they hold a positive view of
her. What has often helped women politicians - being more trusted among voters,
in part, for their outsider perspective - was lost for Clinton. In addition, the
argument that she should run on the historic nature of her campaign to be the
first woman president fell flat months ago, as polling and focus group data
suggested that message was hurting more than helping her.

Group solidarity also did not emerge for Clinton with women voters. Despite
projections that the gender gap would be a record-breaking 20 percent or higher,
it was only 13 percent (similar to Barack Obama's support from women in 2008 and
2012, as well as Al Gore's in 2000). Political scientists have long known that
women are not a monolithic voting bloc. Research continues to show that it is
partisan affiliation (including policy choices), and not gender, that is most
influential in determining women's voter preference. Mitt Romney won among
married women and white women in 2012; this time, Clinton won among married
women, but 53 percent of white women supported Trump, proving that gender is
just one part of the voting behavior equation.

As I have long argued, despite the inevitable symbolism that will come from
electing the first woman president, nothing will change about our constitution
and/or presidential powers. I concluded in my 2015 book "In It to Win: Electing
Madam President" that a gendered strategy is not necessary for a woman
presidential candidate to win, and I believe the Clinton campaign proved that
point. While some gender advantages may exist, it is the institutional,
constitutional, nuts-and-bolts of the electoral process that ultimately
determines the winner. Despite the advantage in fundraising, political
experience and a superior ground game, the Clinton campaign failed to provide a
strong narrative about why she should be elected, and failed to turn out voters
in the swing states that mattered. The candidate's gender can hardly be blamed
for that.

Lori Cox Han, PhD, is professor of political science at Chapman University.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             189 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Pomona College supports DACA;
President signs statement of support for undocumented students

BYLINE: Beau Yarbrough; byarbrough@scng.com @LBY3 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 451 words

ABSTRACT

Pomona College president calls on other college presidents to support DACA,
following in the recent footsteps of other California college and university
presidents.

FULL TEXT

CLAREMONT >> Pomona College President David Oxtoby joined a growing chorus of
Southern California college and university presidents last week when he voiced
his support for undocumented students.

On Thursday, Oxtoby sent a statement in support of the federal Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals policy and "our undocumented immigrant students" more
generally to other college and university presidents around the country.

"Since the advent of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in 2012,
we have seen the critical benefits of this program for our students, and the
highly positive impacts on our institutions and communities," Oxtoby's statement
says in part. "DACA beneficiaries on our campuses have been exemplary student
scholars and student leaders, working across campus and in the community.

"With DACA, our students and alumni have been able to pursue opportunities in
business, education, high tech, and the nonprofit sector; they have gone to
medical school, law school, and graduate schools in numerous disciplines. They
are actively contributing to their local communities and economies."

The policy was a product of the

Obama administration and many now wonder about its future under the
administration of President-elect Donald Trump, who made increased immigration
enforcement and even curtailing the entry of some immigrants a central part of
his presidential campaign. On the campaign trail, Trump has said he would repeal
DACA if elected.

Oxtoby is hoping Trump will change his mind.

"To our country's leaders, we say that DACA should be upheld, continued, and
expanded," the statement says. "We are prepared to meet with you to present our
case. This is both a moral imperative and a national necessity. America needs
talent - and these students, who have been raised and educated in the United
States, are already part of our national community. They represent what is best
about America, and as scholars and leaders they are essential to the future."

According to Pomona College spokeswoman Patricia Cecilia Zurita, "dozens of
presidents have joined the initiative already."

As of 10:30 a.m. Monday, more than 130 college and university presidents from
public and private institutions have a signed statement offering to meet with
U.S. leaders on the issue.

Oxtoby's letter puts him in step with other California educators and
politicians, including California State University Chancellor Tim White, and
California attorney general turned Senator Kamala Harris.

Like the Daily Bulletin on Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             190 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Get ready for a new voting system debuting in 2018

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 713 words



If you voted this fall in a neighborhood garage or the clubhouse of a park or a
school auditorium, remember the experience well. It may not be repeated anytime
soon. If you saw American flags flying at your precinct polling place, that
sight may also disappear.

A whole new election system is about to begin in California, complete with "vote
centers" and a big expansion of early balloting. The new system will start
phasing in in 2018 in 14 counties and should be operative by 2020 everywhere in
the state.

One thing is for sure: Losing candidates and those who expect to lose will have
new fodder for the "rigged election" cry taken up so vocally this fall by
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. With more mail-in ballots
involved than ever before, same-day voter registration and personnel in place to
provide language assistance, charges of fraud will be common at least while the
new system is being broken in.

The hope behind the new system, pushed hard by Democratic Secretary of State
Alex Padilla and signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown, is to increase voter
turnout drastically.

After low turnout disappointed officials in 2014 and the off-year elections of
2013 and 2015, they began casting about for changes. The new system will deliver
mail-in ballots to every registered voter in the 28 days before the actual
Election Day, aiming to end any need to vote in a single place on just one day.

"We've got to ... implement a new voting model," said Democratic state Sen. Ben
Allen of Santa Monica, who sponsored the new system in the Legislature. "Our
current system has failed, as our voter turnout rates continued to decline
toward record lows."

Turnout in both the 2014 primary (25 percent of registered voters) and that
year's November general election (42 percent) was at record lows, making Padilla
and the Legislature a bit desperate to push numbers up.

So instead of voters needing to sign up to receive mail-in ballots for every
election, from now on they will go to everyone automatically. Never mind the
tradition of the secret ballot; everyone from labor unions to employers to
neighborhood groups is now free to hold ballot-marking parties before Election
Day. This has actually been true since mail-in voting became common in the late
1970s, and there have never been charges it led to mass fraud or coerced voting
for particular candidates or causes. But such outcries may arise now.

The guinea pigs for the new system will be voters in Calaveras, Inyo, Madera,
Napa, Nevada, Orange, Sacramento, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Shasta, Sierra, Sutter and Tuolumne counties, with in-person voting at centers
spotted around each county weeks before Election Day. Voters also will be able
to drop off ballots at those centers, rather than mailing them in.

Counties pushed for this, partly as a cost-cutting measure. The fewer polling
places, the lower the cost of an election. But counties moving to the new system
will all have to adopt detailed plans through a system involving public hearings
and input. Community groups, advocates for the disabled and other individuals
all will be able to express preferences for vote center locations. But expect
them to be placed in public buildings where there's either no rent or low rent.

The politicians behind this system claim it will provide far greater flexibility
than long-standing precinct polling places. "It's time to modernize the voting
process," said Democratic state Sen. Robert Hertzberg of Van Nuys, a co-sponsor.
"We need to provide the same convenience and flexibility (people) have in other
areas of their lives. You can stream a movie or deposit a check with your phone
any time, but without this (change), people still have to arrange their busy
schedules to get to a polling place on a single day and that has hurt turnout."

Only time will tell whether all this actually spurs more people to vote. And no
one knows whether the inevitable charges of fraud or vote-fixing will have any
merit. But the people behind the change are certainly correct about one thing:
Turnout had become far too low in recent years, often allowing a small minority
of eligible voters to choose the people who make key decisions for everyone.

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             191 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Court gives taxi competition a green light

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Tuesday editorial on taxi regulations

FULL TEXT

While everyone was preoccupied with the impending elections, and particularly
the presidential race, a federal appeals court quietly issued a pair of rulings
upholding deregulation in the taxi and ridesharing market.

The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals issued two separate rulings last month
affirming decisions that reforms opening up taxi markets to greater competition
in Chicago and Milwaukee did not violate the rights of entrenched taxi
interests. The Chicago case concerned the city's decision to allow ridesharing
services such as Uber and Lyft to operate. In the Milwaukee case, the largest
taxicab operator in the city sued after the city removed the cap on taxi
medallions, which significantly reduced the artificially inflated resale value
of the medallions.

Judge Richard Posner did not mince words in the court's Milwaukee decision: "The
plaintiffs' contention that the increased number of permits has taken property
away from the plaintiffs without compensation, in violation of the
constitutional protection of property, borders on the absurd. Property can take
a variety of forms, some of them intangible, such as patents. But a taxi permit
confers only a right to operate a taxicab (a right which, in Milwaukee, may be
sold). It does not create a right to be an oligopolist, and thus confers no
right to exclude others from operating taxis."

The decisions were hailed by the Institute for Justice, a libertarian
public-interest law firm that represented drivers and entrepreneurs in both
cases, and which also has won legal victories against taxi regulations in
Denver, Minneapolis and Bowling Green, Ohio.

"These cases clear the way for transportation freedom across the country," the
institute's Senior Attorney Anthony Sanders said in a statement. "For too long,
cities across the country have embraced an outdated mode of transportation
regulation that says competition is to be feared and that freedom for taxi
drivers or other transportation entrepreneurs is unthinkable. Today's rulings
confirm that there is absolutely no legal barrier to other cities' joining the
rising wave of cities embracing transportation freedom."

Ridesharing services have sparked a flurry of regulatory activity, both for
better and for worse. Initially, governments rushed to impose regulations on the
renegade disrupters, particularly in large cities with powerful traditional taxi
interests. But, as consumers have increasingly rendered their verdict in favor
of ridesharers, and the inevitability of the success of the new business model
has set in, there has been a backlash wave of deregulation - for both
ridesharing companies and taxis.

San Diego followed Milwaukee's lead, lifting its cap on taxi permits two years
ago, and cities across the nation - from Portland, Oregon, to Salt Lake City to
Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, to Sarasota, Florida - have deregulated in recent
years.

This is a great victory for entrepreneurs looking to make a living and
consumers, who benefit from the increased competition in the form of lower
prices and better service. Now, if only occupational licensing laws and other
regulatory and protectionist barriers could be brought down in equal measure and
fervor in other industries.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             192 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Today in history

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words

ABSTRACT

Hist 11-22

FULL TEXT

1718

English pirate Edward Teach - better-known as "Blackbeard" - was killed during a
battle off present-day North Carolina.

1914

The First Battle of Ypres during World War I ended with an Allied victory
against Germany.

1963

John F. Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States, was shot to death
during a motorcade in Dallas; Texas Gov. John B. Connally, riding in the same
car as Kennedy, was seriously wounded; suspected gunman Lee Harvey Oswald was
arrested.

1955

Comic Shemp Howard of "Three Stooges" fame died in Hollywood at age 60.

1965

The musical "Man of La Mancha" opened on Broadway. Singer-songwriter Bob Dylan
married Sara Lownds (the marriage lasted 12 years).

1975

Juan Carlos was proclaimed King of Spain.

1989

Rene Mouawad was killed by a bomb after serving 17 days as president of Lebanon.

1990

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, having failed to win re-election of
the Conservative Party leadership on the first ballot, announced she would
resign.

2006

A chemical factory explosion in Danvers, Massachusetts, destroyed the
surrounding neighborhood but caused no deaths or serious injuries.

2011

Baseball players and owners signed an agreement for a new labor contract, a deal
making baseball the first North American professional major league to start
blood testing on human growth hormone and expanding the playoffs to 10 teams by
2013. Ryan Braun was voted the NL MVP after helping the Milwaukee Brewers win
their first division title in nearly 30 years. Death claimed France's former
first lady Danielle Mitterrand at age 87 and Svetlana Alliluyeva, daughter of
Soviet dictator Josef Stalin, at age 85. Soldier-turned-soap opera star J.R.
Martinez and his professional partner, Karina Smirnoff, were named champions of
season 13 of ABC's "Dancing with the Stars."

2015

Trying to reassure a nation on edge, President Barack Obama said in Malaysia
that the Islamic State group "cannot strike a mortal blow" against the U.S., and
he warned that overreacting to the Paris attacks would play into extremists'
hands. Opposition candidate Mauricio Macri won Argentina's presidential
election, marking an end to the left-leaning era of President Cristina
Fernandez. Former South Korean President Kim Young-sam, 87, who led the
country's transition to democracy, died in Seoul. Actress and artist Adele
Morales Mailer, 90, died in New York. Novak Djokovic won his fourth straight
title at the season-ending ATP finals by beating six-time champion Roger Federer
6-3, 6-4. Kyle Busch won his first career Sprint Cup title claiming the season
finale at Homestead-Miami Speedway. One Direction won artist of the year at the
American Music Awards.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             193 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

L.A. mayor, Trump talk about economic concerns

BYLINE: Anita Bennett and Ryan Carter; Staff Writers

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 636 words

ABSTRACT

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and President-elect Donald Trump hold phone
conversation.

FULL TEXT

Amid growing concerns among Los Angeles leaders about what the future may hold
when President-elect Donald Trump takes office, L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti spoke
with Trump on Wednesday by telephone in what was described as a "productive
conversation."

The two discussed "ways to expand infrastructure investments and opportunities
in communities across America," the mayor's spokeswoman Connie Llanos said in a
statement.

"Mayor Garcetti underlined the need for the federal government to continue being
a strong partner in these efforts," she said.

Among the other issues brought up during the call were L.A.'s Olympic bid and
immigration, according to Llanos.

"The mayor stressed the important role that immigrants and immigration reform
will play in L.A.'s - and the nation's - long-term success," Llanos said.

Llanos' statement did not elaborate on how long the conversation was or its
tone.

Garcetti's office added that the mayor reached out to the Trump camp and the
president-elect placed the call.

Trump has frequently spoken out about his desire to deport undocumented
immigrants, and in an interview with "60 Minutes" that aired Nov. 13, he said he
planned to immediately deport 2 million to 3 million undocumented immigrants who
"have criminal records" after his inauguration.

Garcetti was a strong supporter of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary
Clinton and had been a frequent Trump critic.

In a July speech at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, Garcetti
had strong remarks for Trump.

"Donald Trump has no vision for our country, and no genuine answers to our
challenges," he said about the then-Republican nominee.

Months earlier, Garcetti called Trump the "ultimate caricature" of a politician
who would say anything to get elected.

"What we can't do with Donald Trump is normalize him as a candidate," Garcetti
said in a May 24 conference call with reporters. "He's a racist, he's a bigot,
he's sexist."

But on Wednesday, local leaders said the dialogue was vital, with much at stake
in the relationship between Washington and Los Angeles.

"I'm thrilled to hear that there is a dialogue," said L.A. City Councilman Mitch
Englander, who represents parts of the San Fernando Valley.

"We have an umbilical cord to federal dollars that can't be severed."

Councilman Jos[#xfffd] Huizar, whose district includes Boyle Heights, elaborated
on the city's needs.

"I hope they talked about our aging infrastructure and the lack of affordable
housing funds coming from the federal government and the need to ramp that
effort up," Huizar said in a statement, adding that Trump needed to know that
homeless funding was a huge challenge in a city where mental health issues
affect a third of those without shelter.

"And, of course, immigration - we hope the president-elect understands that we
are a city of immigrants and there is no advantage to anybody if we tear
families apart and remove children and young people from the only country they
have ever known and loved."

Garcetti's Wednesday conversation with Trump came one day after L.A. County
Supervisor Hilda Solis warned that changes to federal policy proposed by Trump
could lead to the deportation of nearly half a million county residents.

"It seems that standing up for our people's constitutional rights is going to
fall on the hands of state and local governments," Solis said Tuesday.

As she spoke during a news conference in downtown L.A., Solis said the Board of
Supervisors had unanimously approved a motion that asks the sheriff's department
and other law enforcement agencies "to proactively contact communities likely to
be targeted to reassure them of support of their policy of not inquiring about
immigration status of victims or witnesses."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             194 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Trump Cabinet choices: 2 women;
Gov. Nikki Haley picked to be U.S. ambassador to U.N., Betsy DeVos to top
Education

BYLINE: Julie Bykowicz and Steve Peoples; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

ABSTRACT

President-elect Donald Trump has chosen two women for his Cabinet-in-waiting:
South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations and prominent charter school advocate Betsy DeVos as his secretary of
education

FULL TEXT

PALM BEACH, Fla. >> Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald
Trump selected two Republican women on Wednesday who disparaged him during the
presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate Betsy DeVos to lead
the federal Department of Education.

Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet Trump praised her as "a proven
dealmaker." DeVos, like Trump, is new to government but has spent decades
working to

change America's system of public education.

DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts
as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is
the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minority
selection after a string of announcements of white men.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role, which would make him the first black choice - presumably as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development - but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it
over the Thanksgiving holiday.

"I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our
inner cities great for everyone," Carson wrote on his Facebook page.

Wednesday's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the "alt-right,"
a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election.

He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with
family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving. He's
spending the holiday there after a week of interviews of potential appointees in
New York, punctuated by announcements of members of his national security team.

Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections was evident through much
of this year's campaign.

"The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley!" Trump wrote in
March. Haley denounced several of his campaign comments and urged voters to
"reject the siren call of the angriest voices."

DeVos told The Associated Press in July, "A lot of the things he has said are
very off-putting and concerning."

On Wednesday, Trump said of his U.N. selection: "Gov. Haley has a proven track
record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation
to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our
country."

She said she loved her South Carolina post but "when the president believes you
have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our
nation's standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed."

While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and
right.

The president of the National Education Association, Lily Eskelsen Garcia, said
in a statement that for years DeVos "has lobbied for failed schemes, like
vouchers - which take away funding and local control from our public schools -
to fund private schools at taxpayers' expense."

And Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, tweeted,
"Trump has chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the
creation of the Dept of Education."

At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor,
who has spent millions of dollars - along with her husband - to promote
candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the
Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign.

Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that
climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign
vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.

DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a "Q&A" statement that said directly
about Common Core: "I am not a supporter - period."

"I do support high standards," she said. But along the way Common Core "got
turned into a federal boondoggle."

Just two weeks ago, Trump shocked the political world - including many in his
own party - by winning the presidential contest. The billionaire New Yorker has
yet to take any formal steps to separate from his international business empire
as experts in both parties warn of potential conflicts of interest.

Trump will be sworn into office in less than 60 days. Beyond his Cabinet, he
must fill hundreds of high-level administration posts.

Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of
state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and
Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
formerly an outspoken Trump critic.

After secretary of state, the U.N. ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic
position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international
stage.

As for DeVos, her family has been active in Republican politics for decades,
especially as donors. Her husband, Dick, is an heir to the Amway fortune and a
former president of the company.

The American Federation for Children Action Fund, which DeVos chairs, and its
state-affiliated PACs invested in 121 races in 12 states in the general
election, spending spent $210,000 to support "pro-school choice" candidates in
Oklahoma alone.

"Under her leadership we will reform the U.S. education system and break the
bureaucracy that is holding our children back so that we can deliver world-class
education and school choice to all families," Trump said.

DeVos said in her own statement, "The status quo in education is not
acceptable."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             195 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Trump victory brings 'alt-right' into full view

BYLINE: Jay Reeves; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 456 words


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. >> Donald Trump's election is bringing to the fore a strain of
race-based politics once so far out of the mainstream few had even heard of it.

With an ideology that's a mix of racism, white nationalism and old-fashioned
populism, the "alt-right" has burst into the collective consciousness since
members showed up at the Republican National Convention to celebrate Trump's
nomination last summer.

When one of its leaders, Richard Spencer, gave a speech in Washington last
Saturday at an alt-right conference attended by a couple of hundred people, The
Atlantic was there with a video camera that captured the Nazi-style salutes of
people.

"Hail Trump, hail our people, hail victory!" Spencer said to cheers that were
shown in video snippets that have since been viewed.

What does Spencer mean by "our people"? Whites. Spencer directs the National
Policy Institute, which describes itself as "dedicated to the heritage, identity
and future of people of European descent in the United States and around the
world."

It is Spencer who is widely credited with coming up with the term "alt-right,"
or "alternative-right," about eight years go.

While members of the movement are getting more attention than ever, the head of
the Anti-Defamation League's Center on Extremism said Tuesday there is not much
new in its message.

"The hatred and bigotry that is at the core of alt-right ideology has not
changed," center director Oren Segal said in an interview conducted by private
messaging. "What has changed is the name, their packaging and the stated belief
that they have a champion in the highest office."

Richard Cohen, president of the Alabama-based Southern Poverty Law Center, an
organization that tracks hate groups, said the alt-right is "a rebranding of
white nationalism." Cohen called it "the energy behind the avalanche of racist
and anti-Semitic harassment that plagued social media platforms for the entire
presidential campaign."

Cohen's comments came in a statement about Trump's decision to fill his chief
strategist slot with Steve Bannon, who formerly ran Breitbart News, a website
popular with members of the alt-right. Indeed, much of the alt-right exists
online only, for all practical purposes.

While the Ku Klux Klan or neo-Nazis might have public rallies, people associated
with the alt-right are more likely to spread their beliefs in online forums or
on social media like Twitter.

They tend more toward memes than marches; subjects can include criticism of
Jews.

Trump aides and advisers have tried to distance him from the beliefs of the
alt-right. In a meeting Tuesday with editors and reporters of The New York
Times, Trump said of the alt-right: "I don't want to energize the group, and I
disavow the group."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             196 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Corbynization of Democratic Party

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 941 words


The Democratic Party's current festival of re-examination is both necessary and
justified. They have just lost to the most unpopular presidential candidate in
recent memory. Lockstep media support and a much larger war chest were not
enough to save them from losing not only the presidency, but also in state races
across the country.

Since President Obama's first election, Democrats have lost control of the House
and Senate, as well as a dozen governors' houses and roughly 900 state
legislative seats. Republicans have control of all levels of government in 24
states, while Democrats have total control over six. Overall, the party seems
incapable of reaching out to the middle part of the country, white and
middle-class voters.

This contrasts with the 1990s, when a group of party activists consciously
rebuilt the party to appeal to middle-class Americans. Groups like the
Democratic Leadership Council - for whose think tank, the Progressive Policy
Institute, I worked for several years - pushed notions of personal
responsibility, welfare reform, tough crime policies and economic growth that,
embraced by Bill Clinton, expanded the party's base in the Midwest, the
Appalachians and even the Southeast.

Leftward Ho!

Such a shift to the middle is unlikely today. Progressives generally see Hillary
Clinton's loss as largely a rejection of her husband's neoliberal policies and
want to push the party further to the left.

This parallels developments in the United Kingdom, where, following their defeat
in 2015, the La

bour Party promoted a far-left figure, Jeremy Corbyn, as its leader. This was
driven by grassroots progressives - deeply green, multiculturalist and openly
socialist. Many, including several high up in Labour's parliamentary party,
believe the party has little chance to win under such leadership.

Democrats face a similar dilemma. Driven by their dominant academic and media
"thought police," any shift to the middle on issues like crime, climate change
or regulation now seems unimaginable. Self-described progressives who now
dominate the party generally adhere to a series of policies - from open borders
to draconian climate change policies - that are unlikely to play well outside
the coastal enclaves.

Some of the criticism of Clintonian neoliberalism is somewhat justified. As the
emergence of both Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump suggests, support for
globalization and free trade has weakened in both parties. This reflects the
fact that economic gains have become increasingly concentrated since Clinton
left office, and even under the progressive hero, Barack Obama. It's hard to
argue, as the DLC did 25 years ago, for a more market-based system when the vast
majority fail to benefit while the upper echelons do much better.

So it is no surprise, then, that the hyperregulatory and redistributionist
agendas epitomized by Sens. Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders are now
ascendant. This pattern is exacerbated by the party's increasing indifference to
economic growth, in large part, due to their embrace of draconian climate change
policies. Climate change policies, as now constituted, tend to suppress
higher-wage, blue-collar employment. If you give up on growth to save the
planet, the only real solution remaining is massive redistribution, including a
web of subsidies to make up for the lack of income growth, affordable housing
and economic opportunity.

The multiculti trap

The Corbynization of the Democratic Party also turns on militant
multiculturalism. This agenda is shaped, as in Britain, by a disjointed concert
of grievance groups, ranging from gender activists to those who claim to
represent Latinos, African Americans, Asians, Muslims and others, whose
alienation has been exacerbated by Trump's triumph. Trump's nationalist rhetoric
is particularly disliked by progressives who, as author and New America fellow
Michael Lind notes in a recent National Review column, find the very idea of
borders and national interests reactionary and inherently racist.

This identity politics, some liberals note, has driven many whites into a
defensive crouch and pushed them toward the Republicans. Yet, there is little
sign that the party will move in their direction. After all, Hillary labeled
them "deplorables" - not much of a sales pitch. After the election, progressive
journalists have portrayed Trump voters as irredeemably racist, misogynist,
stupid and even too "fat." Summing up, suggests Slate's Jamelle Bouie, there's
no such thing as a "good Trump voter."

Inside the progressive echo chamber, many still believe that an alliance of
minorities, gender activists and millennials will make their victory inevitable.
This can be seen in the tendency of Democrats, just as there is a palpable rise
in crime, to invite the militant Black Lives Matter movement into their tent.

Perhaps nothing more illustrates the Corbynite trend than the proposal to make
Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
Ellison does check off the diversity boxes, but also would place in party
leadership someone who has embraced the Nation of Islam, supports the boycott of
Israeli products and has compared 9-11 to the Reichstag fire that facilitated
the Nazi dictatorship.

Going left may be emotionally satisfying to Democrats who feel abandoned by
their less progressive fellow citizens. But abandoning the middle of the
spectrum does not seem an effective way to get back into power.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             197 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Why Sanchez's hopes went south

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 634 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

Virtually every aspect of the presidential election has been broken down and
analyzed by experts and pundits, who are still in a state of shock over the
results. Because President-elect Donald Trump's victory caught almost everyone
by surprise, don't expect this analysis to slow down any time soon.

Getting lost in the shuffle were many of the down-ballot races that also
produced fascinating results.

Take for example, the contest to see who would replace retiring U.S. Sen.
Barbara Boxer as California's junior senator.

All of the public polls had Golden State Attorney General Kamala Harris
comfortably ahead of Orange County Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez in the Democrat
vs. Democrat match up. And I think it's safe to say that most experts
anticipated a comfortable Harris victory. What nobody expected was the 62-38
percent shellacking that Sanchez ended up taking.

There is no way to sugarcoat this, she got creamed.

Now, I'd be lying to you if I didn't say that the perennially undisciplined
Sanchez made a bunch of gaffes that contributed to her defeat.

She did.

But her missteps aren't what caused her to lose. The cake, in many ways, was
already baked.

Way back in July, the bigwigs in the Northern California-dominated California
Democratic Party put the word out that Harris was their preferred candidate.
This move effectively cut off any chance Sanchez had at raising money, winning
influential endorsements and getting the party rank and file behind her.

Not only did Harris pick up the endorsements of California Gov. Jerry Brown and
the California Democratic Party, she also got the blessing of President Obama
and Vice President Joe Biden.

In a written statement released by the Harris campaign, the president and vice
president said, "Kamala Harris fights for us. That's why I'm so proud to endorse
her for United States senator. ... And if you send her to the Senate, she'll be
a fearless fighter for the people of California - all the people of California -
every single day."

There's mass speculation that former San Francisco Mayor and current California
Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom could get the same kind of home cooking in his bid for
governor in 2018.

And If another former San Francisco Mayor, Dianne Feinstein, decides to seek
another six-year-term in the U.S. Senate in 2018, her support within the
Democratic Party will surely be locked down.

The most likely outcome is that the Northern California dominance of the state's
top-of-the-ticket offices will continue for another generation.

How did this happen when most of the state's population lives south of
Bakersfield? Easy. A clique of San Francisco Bay politicians control the
Democratic Party in a one-party state, and they take care of their friends and
neighbors.

Just look at the roster; Jerry Brown is a former mayor of Oakland, House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi represents San Francisco in Congress, California
Democratic Party Chairman John Burton used to represent San Francisco in the
state Legislature, and Democratic Party sugar daddy Tom Steyer resides in the
City by the Bay.

At a certain point, Southern California Democrats will have to accept the
reality that they've hit their political ceiling when they become a big-city
mayor or congressman, or a state legislative leader.

Or, they're going to have to beat the machine.

Option B is easier said than done and would require the type of
coalition-building that Sanchez was incapable of doing, which would almost
certainly involve California Republicans.

Eventually, some politician will beat the machine. The only question is when.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             198 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Red state/blue state: Where would you rather live?

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 715 words


"The pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue
states," Barack Obama famously observed in 2004, several years before he ran for
president. "But I've got news for them: There's the United States of America."

Twelve years later, Obama is about to depart the White House, and by now he has
probably learned there are significant differences between so-called "red"
states that tend to vote Republican in presidential elections and "blue" ones
that usually support Democrats. The colors, of course, come from maps often used
as television graphics during election coverage.

What are some of those differences? While campaigning - at least before Donald
Trump - Republicans have tended to focus on values, claiming families and
traditional marriages are stronger in red states than blue ones, while Democrats
contend poor people, minorities and women are better off in blue ones.

California, of course, has been a consistently blue state since 1992, when Bill
Clinton carried it with a plurality of the vote against the elder George Bush,
not winning an actual majority here until 1996.

Republicans often say California Democrats have wrecked the Golden State over
the last 25 years, citing what they insist is a declining quality of life and an
expanded role for government.

It's true Democrats have dominated the Legislature almost all that time, passing
laws that regulate everything from cellphone use in cars to teaching about gay
history in high schools. A "nanny state," many Republicans call it, ignoring the
fact Republican governors like Pete Wilson and Arnold Schwarzenegger signed off
on most of the new regulations Democrats passed in the last quarter-century.

Ethnically speaking, California became blue when its Latinos began to get
politically active. But in many other ways, this is statistically a pretty
standard blue state, and there are major differences between those states and
their red rivals. Here are some (based on U.S. Census data):

o Blue states tend to have a more educated populace; California is fairly
typical with 37.4 percent of adults holding college degrees. Deeply blue
Massachusetts (despite its Republican governor) ranks first in this category
with 53.4 percent of adults holding at least a bachelor's degree. At the bottom
in this category is a corps of red states including Alaska at 26.6 percent,
Texas at 32.2 percent and Arizona with 33 percent.

o Red states tend to have a far higher percentage of people abusing drugs, led
by West Virginia with 25.8 persons out of every 100,000 dying of drug overdoses
each year, Utah with 18.4 and Alaska 18.1 in 2008, the last year for which
statistics are available. Red states like Louisiana, Arizona, Alabama, Oklahoma
and Tennessee all topped 14 per 100,000 in this sad category. California, again
in drug abuse a fairly normal blue state, saw only 10.4 persons out of every
100,000 take fatal overdoses, both from illegal drugs and prescription ones.
(Statistics from the Policy Impact Report of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.)

o A little counterintuitive, the map of states with the highest Census-reported
divorce rates is also almost all red, including Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alaska,
Alabama, Kentucky, Nevada (the only blue state here, but also the only state
with an active quickie divorce industry), Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee and
Arizona.

o Unemployment, on the other hand, is a mixed bag. In the latest Department of
Labor statistics, three red states (Alaska, Louisiana and West Virginia) are
among the top six, with Alaska leading the unfortunate way at 6.7 percent, but
they are joined by three usually blue states (Illinois, New Mexico and the
District of Columbia).

o Red state citizens tend to be more charitable, with the eight states donating
the highest share of their personal income to charity - Utah, Mississippi,
Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina, Idaho, Arkansas and Georgia - all pretty
reliably Republican. (Data from the Chronicle of Philanthropy.)

All of which raises some questions: Do Republican "family values" equate to
higher divorce rates and lower college education? Does going Democratic make
people less charitable? Or are none of these things linked to politics at all?

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             199 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 359 words

ABSTRACT

For all LANG papers

FULL TEXT

We asked readers, What should be Donald Trump's top priority as president?


New president should let Constitution be his guide

Donald Trump's top priority should be to learn and understand the Constitution
and the complexity of the presidency. I'm totally devastated by the outcome of
this presidential election, which was predicated on hate, fear, racism, bigotry
and lies.

Having the likes of a man like Trump becoming president of the U.S. is
frightening. I am hoping that this glorious country of ours isn't decimated by
this uninformed man who truly doesn't know how the U.S. government operates.

The job of the president is too important to hand over to a man not qualified,
who has a volatile temperament and is thin-skinned to criticism.

- Lois Eisenberg, Valencia

First, close the border

Trump should close the border first, stop the chaos and support the border
guards.

- Patricia Serio, Covina

Quit while he's ahead?

President-elect Trump's top priority should be resigning from office before he's
impeached.

- Ray Sherman, Duarte

A neutral view of Trump

I don't know what to think about Donald Trump's plans. Some I support, others I
don't. Love him or deplore him, he's got everyone's attention and it's been a
compelling story to watch unfold. Who knows what drama, success and failures
will emerge in the next four years?

One concern is how all the major news media lost credibility with biased
reporting. I commend the newspaper for trying to remain neutral.

- Lynn Wood, Long Beach

Follow the popular vote

He lost by more than 2 million votes; he should accept that he was not the
choice of the American people, and not accept a prize that he did not earn. He
can instruct electors pledged to him to vote for the real winner: Hillary
Clinton.

Let him avoid the example of Sarah Palin, who learned she couldn't be the boss
of everything and quit in the middle of her term as Alaska governor to make more
money.

- Stephen Kandis, Rancho Palos Verdes

More answers to this Question of the Week will be published Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             200 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Steven Mnuchin is Trump's expected choice for Treasury

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words


WASHINGTON >> Steven Terner Mnuchin, a financier with deep roots on Wall Street
and in Hollywood but no government experience, is expected to be named Donald J.
Trump's Treasury secretary as soon as Wednesday, sources close to the transition
say.

Mnuchin, 53, was the national finance chairman for Trump's campaign. He began
his career at Goldman Sachs, where he became a partner, before creating his own
hedge fund, moving to the West Coast and entering the first rank of movie
financiers by bankrolling hits like the "X-Men" franchise and "Avatar."

As Treasury secretary, Mnuchin would play an important role in shaping the
administration's economic policies, including a package of promised tax cuts,
increased spending on infrastructure and changes in the terms of foreign

trade. He could also help lead any effort to roll back President Barack Obama's
nuclear deal with Iran and opening to Cuba by reimposing sanctions on Tehran and
Havana.

His selection fits uneasily with much of Trump's campaign rhetoric attacking the
financial industry. Trump, in a campaign ad intended as a closing argument,
portrayed the chief executive of Goldman Sachs as the personification of a
global elite that the ad said had "robbed our working class."

But Mnuchin has said that he agrees with Trump's priorities, and he was an early
supporter of a candidate who clearly prizes loyalty.

When Trump won New York's Republican presidential primary in April, Mnuchin
attended the victory party. The next day, he accepted Trump's invitation to
become the campaign's national finance director.

Mnuchin, the son of a Goldman Sachs partner, joined the firm after graduating
from Yale University. He worked there for 17 years, rising to oversee trading in
government securities and mortgage bonds.

Mnuchin has never worked in government, but Treasury secretaries are often drawn
from the private sector. He would become the third Goldman alumnus to serve in
the job, after Henry M. Paulson Jr., under President George W. Bush; and Robert
E. Rubin, under President Bill Clinton.

Elaine Chao for Transportation Secretary

She is a woman and an immigrant, a fixture of the Republican establishment for
two decades. She is a savvy and professional practitioner of the capital's
inside game.

And now she is going to work for President-elect Donald Trump.

Trump named Elaine L. Chao on Tuesday as his choice to be the next secretary of
transportation, elevating someone whose background and experience are in many
respects completely at odds with the brash and disruptive tenor of his
anti-Washington campaign.

But her selection also signaled Trump's understanding of the need to surround
himself with people who can help him accomplish the most ambitious parts of his
agenda, even if they come from the political establishment he has so often
scorned.

His transportation secretary is likely to be one of the more essential players.
Trump, a real estate magnate, has said that infrastructure redevelopment will be
a priority of his first 100 days in office. And Chao has experience -
politically and personally - in navigating the competing centers of power in the
capital. She is married to Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the majority leader.

This will be her second time serving in a White House Cabinet if she is
confirmed. As secretary of labor under President George W. Bush, she was the
only official in his administration to serve all eight years.

Before that, she worked in various departments across the federal government.
She was a White House fellow under President Ronald Reagan and the director of
the Peace Corps under President George Bush, who also named her deputy
transportation secretary.

Her r[#xfffd]sum[#xfffd] speaks to the ease with which she runs in powerful
circles in Washington and beyond. She has worked for Harvard's Kennedy School of
Government as well as the conservative Heritage Foundation. She was also a
frequent commentator on Fox News, a role that several of Trump's other Cabinet
picks and candidates share, like K.T. McFarland, whom he named as his deputy
national security adviser.

She adds some diversity to a Cabinet that is so far heavily older, white and
male. Chao, 63, was born in Taiwan and moved to the U.S. with her family when
she was 8.

While the public aspects of her life are well known, Chao has also played an
integral, behind-the-scenes role in her husband's political career, most
recently as he fought off efforts to unseat him in 2014. Described by friends
and colleagues as unrelenting, she occasionally stepped out into the public eye
to take on her husband's antagonists.

Sometimes they also came for her, and she was happy to take them on as well.
After a liberal Kentucky group suggested in 2013 that Chao was somehow connected
to the flight of U.S. jobs to China - a jab evidently intended to portray
McConnell as too cozy with U.S. business interests - she starred in a commercial
and rushed to his defense. "Far-left special interests are also attacking my
ethnicity, even attacking Mitch's patriotism, because he's married to me," she
said. "That's how low some people will stoop."

Trump was impressed by her energy and drive, a senior transition official said,
speaking anonymously to reveal the private interactions between Chao and the
president-elect. He also admired her no-nonsense attitude, this official said.

But now that she is in line for a prominent position in Trump's Cabinet, it is
her own ties to business that are likely to come under scrutiny. As labor
secretary, she faced criticism that her department favored business and was lax
on enforcement and worker safety.

At the time, she dismissed those concerns as "partisan."

Return of Romney

The president-elect summoned a former foe, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney, for dinner Tuesday night to discuss the secretary of state job for a
second time.

Trump also met with Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, having met with former CIA director David Petraeus the day
before.

The New York Times and The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             201 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Don't back off from freedom of global trade

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 557 words

ABSTRACT

FRIDAY MAIN EDIT

FULL TEXT

Campaigning is one thing. Governing, especially at the presidential level is
another. Some know this intuitively. Others learn in a hard school.

Both major party presidential candidates this year came out against the complex
trade pact called the Trans-Pacific Partnership. They knew that, especially for
workers, and out-of-workers, in America's heartland, free trade with other
nations can seem like a fool's bargain. These agreements with low-wage nations
understandably look like an unfair deal that end up destroying American
manufacturing jobs.

It's much easier to say that on the hustings than to go into an eggheady
economic analysis about the efficiencies of world markets raising all boats.

But the fact of the matter is that Hillary Clinton changed her position on the
TPP for strategic reasons after she had supported the trade agreement as
secretary of state.

And one arm of President-elect Donald Trump's business empire sells clothes made
in China and elsewhere in the Far East. He knows better than the rest of us that
slapping a 45 percent tariff on a silk necktie would not make it any easier to
sell.

Nor would doing so be anything like a bargain for the American consumer. Those
incredible deals at Walmart on T-shirts, and dress shirts, made in Bangladesh
and Colombia are made possible by trade agreements such as NAFTA and TPP, which,
by the way, includes thousands of tax cuts for American businesses that would
make trade a better two-way street for our country's exporters as well as
importers.

The benefits of free trade are one of the key elements of international commerce
on which economists on the right, the center and the left all agree. Running the
numbers, it turns out that the best way to increase prosperity in all the
nations of the world is to allow each country's economy to do what it does best.
Chinese companies manufacture iPhones and clothing more efficiently than we do
here. We're a whole lot better, for instance, at postsecondary education - six
of the top 10 universities in the world are American - and at creating
intellectual property, with eight of the top 10 brands, from Apple to Visa,
being American.

The incoming president, in a different role than campaigner, will do well to
continue to fine-tune trade agreements in the American interest rather than
cancel them.

Protectionism is a misnomer- trade wars protect no one, creating equal and
opposite reactions from other countries that would greatly harm American workers
and consumers. And the fact is that presidents on their own can only increase
tariffs 15 percent, and then only for 150 days, unless a state of emergency is
declared, an unlikely scenario.

One clear way for a new administration to increase the efficiencies free trade
creates is to call out China's blatant cheating on some of the agreements in
place, from its subsidizing the price of rice and wheat to its currency
manipulation to its stealing patented ideas to its hacking into our companies'
email systems to its counterfeiting of our brands.

Demanding compliance with current and future trade agreements, rather than
backing away from them or pretending that discredited protectionist policies
would help the average American, is the courageous course the new administration
must take if it wants to ensure prosperity for our nation.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             202 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

An opportunity, not a mandate

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1129 words

ABSTRACT

Brian Calle on election

FULL TEXT


A presidential election victory is not a mandate. In fact, winning a
presidential election never is, despite the opinion of too many pundits. Even
Republican President Ronald Reagan recognized this when he won a landslide
re-election in 1984, winning 49 states and garnering 525 electoral votes.

In the aftermath of that election, Reagan pushed bipartisan support of laws he
signed and ensured his Republican Party worked with Democrats in Congress.

Despite the opinion of some, President-elect Trump's victory is not a mandate,
either, and not because he lost the popular vote or because we are coming out of
the most divisive election cycle in modern history, where many in the country
are viewing his imminent presidency with a great deal of skepticism and concern.
It's because when a president or a political party treats any one election as a
mandate and overreaches, it quickly loses the reins of power.

After his historic 2008 victory, President Obama had the wind at his back.
Democrats regained the presidency after eight years and held majorities in both
the Senate and the House of Representatives. His party was unified and poised
for potentially unparalleled legislative achievement, believing that the country
had endorsed an ambitious progressive agenda.

Early in his presidential tenure, Obama pushed what would ultimately become his
signature legislative achievement - the Affordable Care Act (colloquially
referred to as Obamacare). It was pushed through Congress without a single
Republican vote in either the House or the Senate, in the face of widespread
public opposition to the legislation.

That single action started a chain of events, beginning with a revolt by voters
in 2010, costing President Obama's Democratic Party to lose its majority in the
House and drop six seats in the Senate. It is also what spawned the Tea Party,
and, thus, the beginnings of an early base of support for Trump, a political
figure who personifies all that Obama demonized.

Ever since, Obama has had a combative relationship with Congress devoid of
mutual trust or admiration. Republicans in Congress bear some of the blame, as
they refused to work with Obama.

The result is unfortunate: Since 2010, President Obama has had no other major
legislative achievements. Contrast that with former Presidents Bill Clinton and
Reagan - both who faced Congresses controlled by the opposition party - and you
will see a stark contrast in approach and, thus, accomplishment. In fact, Reagan
had a rule that he would not sign a bill into law without at least some
Democratic support, and Clinton's penchant for political deal-making was the
hallmark of his success as president.

For the last six years in Washington, compromise was replaced with contempt.
Polarization has overtaken collaboration and it's become more politically
expedient to bash political opponents than to find common ground.

President Obama's response to the gridlock was to attempt to legislate by fiat,
that is, to use executive orders to sidestep a Congress that he chastised as
being controlled by the "Party of no." As Marc Thiessen wrote for the Washington
Post, "The reason Obama's legacy is so vulnerable today is that the 44th
president relied more on executive actions - issuing not only executive orders,
but also a record number of rules, regulations and agency directives to
legislate around Congress and impose his agenda."

Thiessen also recalled: "After he lost control of the Senate in 2014, Obama
announced at his first Cabinet meeting: 'We're not just going to be waiting for
legislation. ... I've got a pen and I've got a phone. And I can use that pen to
sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that
move the ball forward.'"

What this means, though, is on Day One in office, President Trump could undo
every single one of the actions Obama made with his pen and phone. That's why
the role of the president is not that of a legislator, but instead a
collaborative role that must persuade and work with Congress to pass legislation
by a large enough margin that the next president and Congress will not undo it.

Now Trump, winning an even more alienating campaign than either of the two that
Obama won, must grapple with the realities of governing an even more divided
country. The Republican Party will control the White House, the Senate and the
House of Representatives, but if it overreaches it will face the same kind of
backlash Democrats and President Obama felt in the 2010 and 2014 elections.

Brian Calle is opinion editor for the Southern California News Group.

proach and, thus, accomplishment. In fact, Reagan had a rule that he would not
sign a bill into law without at least some Democratic support, and Clinton's
penchant for political deal-making was the hallmark of his success as president.

For the last six years in Washington, compromise was replaced with contempt.
Polarization has overtaken collaboration and it's become more politically
expedient to bash political opponents than to find common ground.

President Obama's response to the gridlock was to attempt to legislate by fiat,
that is, to use executive orders to sidestep a Congress that he chastised as
being controlled by the "Party of no." As Marc Thiessen wrote for the Washington
Post, "The reason Obama's legacy is so vulnerable today is that the 44th
president relied more on executive actions - issuing not only executive orders,
but also a record number of rules, regulations and agency directives to
legislate around Congress and impose his agenda."

Thiessen also recalled: "After he lost control of the Senate in 2014, Obama
announced at his first Cabinet meeting: 'We're not just going to be waiting for
legislation. ... I've got a pen and I've got a phone. And I can use that pen to
sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that
move the ball forward.'"

What this means, though, is on Day One in office, President Trump could undo
every single one of the actions Obama made with his pen and phone. That's why
the role of the president is not that of a legislator, but instead a
collaborative role that must persuade and work with Congress to pass legislation
by a large enough margin that the next president and Congress will not undo it.

Now Trump, winning an even more alienating campaign than either of the two that
Obama won, must grapple with the realities of governing an even more divided
country. The Republican Party will control the White House, the Senate and the
House of Representatives, but if it overreaches it will face the same kind of
backlash Democrats and President Obama felt in the 2010 and 2014 elections.

Brian Calle is opinion editor for the Southern California News Group.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             203 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Five ideas to make America greater

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1685 words


Donald Trump's presidential campaign was based on the notion that he could "Make
America Great Again." But beyond the rhetoric - sometimes lurching into
demagoguery - the newly elected president comes to office, as one commentator
suggests, "the least policy-savvy president in history."

To succeed, Trump must adopt innovative policies that transcend traditional
right-left divides. He needs to find ways to help his heavily white,
working-class base while expanding his appeal to minorities, millennials and
educated people who are now largely horrified by his ascendency.

In the short run, his biggest problem may lie with his own Republican Party
establishment, which, rather than "drain the swamp," would simply like to create
one of its own. The looming presence of corporate lobbyists, swarming around the
administration like hungry flies, is not encouraging at all, nor are GOP
congressional plans to re-establish "earmarks."

The key lies not in empowering a different set of K Street parasites, but rather
in reversing income stagnation. If he cannot, his triumph may prove to be no
more consequential than an absurdist, Latin American-style telenovela.

A flatter, fairer tax

The basic instinct among many Republicans tends toward reducing taxes on their
richest donors and making life easier for the ultrarich, including some on
Trump's economic team. Trump's imperative should, instead, be to make the tax
system fairer for the middle and working classes. One way would be to make a
graduated flat tax that would mean that the rich, who make most of their money
from investments, pay the same rate for capital gains as the rest of us do for
income.

Democrats will, no doubt, still charge Trump with being "unfair," but, as Ronald
Reagan proved 20 years ago, Americans support incentives for work if they don't
unfairly tilt conditions to the ultrarich. Main Street business owners, the most
hostile constituency to the Obama administration's policies, pay taxes based on
their income and can't manipulate the system like Apple, Google, Wall Streeters
or, for that matter, real estate developers like Trump himself.

A middle ground for immigration

Opposition to illegal immigration helped drive the Trump campaign early on, but,
outside of the GOP base, there is little support for a mass roundup of the
undocumented. The vast majority of Americans, over 70 percent, also oppose "open
borders." After all, even President Obama evicted 2 million people during his
two terms in office.

Trump also can begin reordering our immigration policies toward skilled workers
who are interested in becoming citizens. At the same time, Trump could score
points by undermining the H1-B visa program, which allows Silicon Valley firms,
along with corporations like Disney and Southern California Edison, to lay off
American workers and replace them with temporary indentured servants.

Unleash the energy industry

Much of the growth in America during the first six years of the Obama
administration came from energy, which added 500,000 jobs between 2004 and 2014,
much of them concentrated in the Trumpian heartland of the upper Midwest,
Appalachia and the Texas-Oklahoma-Louisiana "oil patch." Now, under pressure
from low prices, Trump may consider ways to encourage our domestic producers.

Since he is not a free trade ideologue, Trump could position his policy as one
way to keep from being dependent on lunatic Middle Eastern states - or even his
good friend Vladimir Putin. The energy industry and manufacturing, unlike high
tech, employ large numbers of not only of white, working-class people, but also
Latinos and African Americans, and generally at high wages.

Localism

This election proved how deeply divided Americans are, both by class and
geography. The fearful reaction on the Left to Trump's election reveals how
dependent our politics have become on the "imperial presidency." One way to
defuse the worry would be to cede more control from Washington to the
localities.

We should let the leaders of the "Left Coast," if they so wish, wear green
energy hair shirts, legalize marijuana, boost the minimum wage dramatically,
suppress suburban housing and dictate transgender bathrooms. If the middle of
the country does not want to follow suit, that's just fine, as long as they
protect basic human rights. A country as diverse and divided cannot be
effectively ruled by a central government that goes increasingly into areas that
were once largely controlled locally.

Infrastructure

To succeed, Trump must look as much to the model of Franklin D. Roosevelt as
Ronald Reagan. A large basic infrastructure plan - long the purview of the
federal government - would employ many blue-collar workers, including many
minorities. This stimulus should be directed to those areas and industries more
open to his administration, such as trucking, warehousing, energy and basic
manufacturing. Much of the work should be in the areas that backed Trump - the
South, where growth is strongest, and also in the Midwest and Great Plains,
where much of the basic road, bridge and energy infrastructure is outdated.

Ultimately, Trump's success depends on securing the economic interests of his
core supporters. To expand his coalition, he needs show how his program helps
not just his core base but also broader parts of the population who likewise
have felt short-changed in this economy, and deserve a better future.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

to be no more consequential than an absurdist, Latin American-style telenovela.

A flatter, fairer tax

The basic instinct among many Republicans tends toward reducing taxes on their
richest donors and making life easier for the ultrarich, including some on
Trump's economic team. Trump's imperative should, instead, be to make the tax
system fairer for the middle and working classes. One way would be to make a
graduated flat tax that would mean that the rich, who make most of their money
from investments, pay the same rate for capital gains as the rest of us do for
income.

Democrats will, no doubt, still charge Trump with being "unfair," but, as Ronald
Reagan proved 20 years ago, Americans support incentives for work if they don't
unfairly tilt conditions to the ultrarich. Main Street business owners, the most
hostile constituency to the Obama administration's policies, pay taxes based on
their income and can't manipulate the system like Apple, Google, Wall Streeters
or, for that matter, real estate developers like Trump himself.

A middle ground for immigration

Opposition to illegal immigration helped drive the Trump campaign early on, but,
outside of the GOP base, there is little support for a mass roundup of the
undocumented. The vast majority of Americans, over 70 percent, also oppose "open
borders." After all, even President Obama evicted 2 million people during his
two terms in office.

Trump also can begin reordering our immigration policies toward skilled workers
who are interested in becoming citizens. At the same time, Trump could score
points by undermining the H1-B visa program, which allows Silicon Valley firms,
along with corporations like Disney and Southern California Edison, to lay off
American workers and replace them with temporary indentured servants.

Unleash the energy industry

Much of the growth in America during the first six years of the Obama
administration came from energy, which added 500,000 jobs between 2004 and 2014,
much of them concentrated in the Trumpian heartland of the upper Midwest,
Appalachia and the Texas-Oklahoma-Louisiana "oil patch." Now, under pressure
from low prices, Trump may consider ways to encourage our domestic producers.

Since he is not a free trade ideologue, Trump could position his policy as one
way to keep from being dependent on lunatic Middle Eastern states - or even his
good friend Vladimir Putin. The energy industry and manufacturing, unlike high
tech, employ large numbers of not only of white, working-class people, but also
Latinos and African Americans, and generally at high wages.

Localism

This election proved how deeply divided Americans are, both by class and
geography. The fearful reaction on the Left to Trump's election reveals how
dependent our politics have become on the "imperial presidency." One way to
defuse the worry would be to cede more control from Washington to the
localities.

We should let the leaders of the "Left Coast," if they so wish, wear green
energy hair shirts, legalize marijuana, boost the minimum wage dramatically,
suppress suburban housing and dictate transgender bathrooms. If the middle of
the country does not want to follow suit, that's just fine, as long as they
protect basic human rights. A country as diverse and divided cannot be
effectively ruled by a central government that goes increasingly into areas that
were once largely controlled locally.

Infrastructure

To succeed, Trump must look as much to the model of Franklin D. Roosevelt as
Ronald Reagan. A large basic infrastructure plan - long the purview of the
federal government - would employ many blue-collar workers, including many
minorities. This stimulus should be directed to those areas and industries more
open to his administration, such as trucking, warehousing, energy and basic
manufacturing. Much of the work should be in the areas that backed Trump - the
South, where growth is strongest, and also in the Midwest and Great Plains,
where much of the basic road, bridge and energy infrastructure is outdated.

Ultimately, Trump's success depends on securing the economic interests of his
core supporters. To expand his coalition, he needs show how his program helps
not just his core base but also broader parts of the population who likewise
have felt short-changed in this economy, and deserve a better future.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             204 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Dems should resist urge to go farther left

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 651 words


Democrats are afraid, and not just of President-elect Donald Trump.

After years spent preparing for a Clinton presidency under the illusion that
culture war politics conquered all, they now fear that Republicans - who control
32 state legislatures and counting - will act as if their only opposition clings
to a strip of coastline along the Atlantic and the Pacific. But in the Golden
State, where Democrats reign supreme, a parallel universe is setting in. Rather
than moderating their rule to encourage Republicans nationwide to seek common
ground, California Democrats want to make their state more of a leftist utopia
than ever.

This is a mistake. California provides Democrats with a badly needed safe space
to show they can govern without being captive to the culturally revolutionary
vanguard that has pushed so many voters into the arms of Trump's GOP.

If Democrats want to make a credible case that Republicans should exercise
magnanimity and restraint over the next four years as they set a national policy
agenda, they should refocus on a broadly appealing agenda that pays heed to
California's dwindling middle class and its pinched working class. The
old-fashioned circumspection of Gov. Jerry Brown should be more of a model going
forward than the cutting-edge, aggressive progressivism of Gavin Newsom or
Kamala Harris.

Certainly, California is already one of the most socially liberal states in the
union. But, as its many libertarians can attest, the accommodating and
permissive spirit that has worked best for California has largely been an
organic one, rising up from residents' progressively shifting habits and mores.
Meanwhile, enforced, top-down "liberalism" has mostly sown intractable conflict,
squandering valuable time and energy on matters that hardly bear on the basic
hallmarks of successful governance: a robust economy, judicious lawmaking and a
society with a healthy, stable middle tier of producers, consumers and
neighbors. Democrats should have anticipated the disappointments of a rainbow
coalition built around an identity politics of grievance, even if, in
California's parallel universe, rose-colored glasses made it difficult.

But recent news reports have revealed that one leading Democrat did push for a
different approach - Bill Clinton, the man responsible for his party's return
from narrow margins in national politics after three consecutive Republican
administrations. Clinton "repeatedly pushed his wife's campaign to do more
outreach to economically distressed white communities by prioritizing her
populist economic message," as Vanity Fair has noted. "But her advisors refused,
believing that Hillary would do better by appealing to minorities and
college-educated suburban voters."

He begged in vain for his wife to accept an invitation to address a St.
Patrick's Day event at the University of Notre Dame. "But Mrs. Clinton's
campaign refused, explaining to the organizers that white Catholics were not the
audience she needed to spend time reaching out to," the New York Times recently
reported.

White, working-class voters who broke for Obama flipped to Trump and the GOP
across the Rust Belt, deciding the election.

Democrats who want to regain the trust of those Obama voters have much work to
do in the Midwest states that turned against them this year. But the real proof
of a party-wide rethink will have to come from the deepest blue states, and no
blue state is more Democratic than California.

Gov. Brown has hardly governed as a bloodless centrist, but he has consistently
curbed some of his party's least productive adventures in utopianism and
identity politics. Although California's rising generation of leading Democrats
often seem to think of an archliberal agenda as not just their prerogative, but
rather their destiny, if they fail to reckon with the wisdom of an earlier
political age, soon they'll really have something to worry about.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             205 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

By accident, media helped Trump

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 627 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

A lot of people were shocked by the result of the presidential election, but I
think it's safe to say the only people more stunned than Hillary Clinton and her
supporters were the news media. And by the media, I mean all of them.

It didn't matter which network you were watching, as each anchor called the
election for Donald Trump they all had the same expression of complete and total
bewilderment on their faces. The only thing I can compare it to is the look that
attorney Robert Kardashian had on his kisser when the jury foreman read the O.J.
Simpson verdict.

The conventional wisdom was that since Trump was hit with the kitchen sink on a
daily basis, there was no way he could cobble together the necessary 270
electoral votes to win the election.

But he did.

And I actually think the media's palpable disdain for the Manhattan billionaire
ended up helping him with the American people.

Never before has there been an election where the news media so overtly picked a
side. This was true across all platforms - broadcast, entertainment and print -
almost everybody in my profession wanted Hillary to win.

Writing in Time magazine, Univision and Fusion anchor Jorge Ramos insisted, "It
doesn't matter who you are - a journalist, a politician or a voter - we'll all
be judged by how we responded to Donald Trump. Like it or not, this election is
a plebiscite on the most divisive, polarizing and disrupting figure in American
politics in decades. And neutrality is not an option."

And then Ramos went even further, saying, "Trump has forced journalists to
revisit rules of objectivity and fairness. Just providing both points of view is
not enough in the current presidential campaign. If a candidate is making racist
and sexist remarks, we cannot hide in the principle of neutrality. That's a
false equivalence."

Ramos' remarks were celebrated by his peers.

The Philadelphia Enquirer went so far as to editorialize, "You call Jorge Ramos
'an advocacy journalist'? If so, America needs 10,000 more like him."

On "The Tonight Show,' host Jimmy Fallon invited Trump on as a guest and treated
him the same way he would treat any other political candidate. As a result, he
was excoriated.

Jo Miller, an executive producer of "Full Frontal with Samantha Bee" on TBS,
said in an interview with The New York Times that seeing Fallon's interview of
Trump "was a punch in the gut."

Miller explained, "This is not a race between Democrat and Republican - this is
a race between Democrat and demagogue. You don't normalize someone who's
inciting violence."

And then you have the Huffington Post, which decided to print all of its
Trump-related news in the 'entertainment' section of the website along with the
outrageous editors note, "Donald Trump regularly incites political violence and
is a serial liar, rampant xenophobe, racist, misogynist and birther who has
repeatedly pledged to ban all Muslims - 1.6 billion members of an entire
religion - from entering the U.S."

In response to this blanket side-picking, most Americans just decided to tune
the media out - because they knew they weren't honest brokers.

Whenever a news outlet would unveil yet another hit piece on Trump, it would
largely fall on deaf ears instead of having an impact on the race.

A week and change after the election, two things are clear - the media have lost
their influence over the electorate, and it helped Donald Trump.

If they want to get their good name back, and recapture the attention of half of
America, there's only one way to do it - go back to playing it straight.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             206 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Why we are still waiting for Madam President

BYLINE: Lori Cox Han

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 899 words

ABSTRACT

Lori Cox Han on Clinton loss

FULL TEXT

Obviously, a Hillary Clinton presidency would have been historic. The symbolism
of Clinton's inauguration as the first women president would have resonated
world-wide as a mark of the progress that American women have achieved in all
walks of life. Instead, the post-mortem is well underway about why, despite all
the polls and pundit predictions, Clinton lost.

Many are pointing to sexism as the main culprit, yet no empirical evidence
exists to back it up. We know that sexist and misogynistic views exist within
our society, and that negative stereotypes about women are constantly promoted
within our mass media. However, proving a link between sexist views and voting
behavior, with any validity, is impossible. Public opinion polls for years have
shown support for electing a woman president, suggesting that a majority of
Americans are not deterred by a woman candidate. Partisanship was more than
likely the deciding factor in 2016 as severe polarization has continued among
the American electorate, as were economic issues as evidenced by Donald Trump's
success in the Rust Belt.

Similarly, gender bias in news coverage is also a popular theory for why Clinton
lost. While sexist and misogynistic language exists, particularly online and in
social media, there is no empirical evidence to suggest this can effect voter
preference or turnout. If a blogger or cable news pundit writes or says
something offensive about a woman candidate, are we to believe that can
translate into hundreds of thousands or even millions of voters refusing to
support her? That assessment defies logic. Obviously, sexism can have a harmful
effect when considering the broader issue of political socialization through the
mass media, but we should not overinflate its importance as it relates to
political news and voting behavior. Not only has research shown that
frontrunners get more negative coverage (which Clinton was in 2008 and 2016),
but also that public criticism of sexist attacks can eliminate the effectiveness
and make it seem less credible.

Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign built extensively on the support she earned
in her campaign for the Democratic nomination in 2008. She won the Democratic
nomination with 34 primary and caucus victories and a total of 17 million votes.
She broke every fundraising record with the $500 million she raised this
campaign cycle (not to mention the nearly $200 million in Super PAC funds). In
the general election, she won 19 states plus the District of Columbia, 232
electoral votes, and will win the popular vote. To say that American voters
can't or won't vote for a woman for president no longer holds credibility.

A closer examination of Clinton as a candidate is where we see many compelling
reasons for her loss. I am on record that Clinton was an "inherently flawed
candidate," which left me skeptical for years that she could actually win the
presidency. During this campaign, she was under investigation by the FBI for
both her use of a private email server and fundraising at the Clinton Foundation
while secretary of state. That, along with the baggage from her husband's long
political career, reinforced the negative perceptions many Americans have had of
the Clintons for years.

A majority of voters did not trust her, nor did they hold a positive view of
her. What has often helped women politicians - being more trusted among voters,
in part, for their outsider perspective - was lost for Clinton. In addition, the
argument that she should run on the historic nature of her campaign to be the
first woman president fell flat months ago, as polling and focus group data
suggested that message was hurting more than helping her.

Group solidarity also did not emerge for Clinton with women voters. Despite
projections that the gender gap would be a record-breaking 20 percent or higher,
it was only 13 percent (similar to Barack Obama's support from women in 2008 and
2012, as well as Al Gore's in 2000). Political scientists have long known that
women are not a monolithic voting bloc. Research continues to show that it is
partisan affiliation (including policy choices), and not gender, that is most
influential in determining women's voter preference. Mitt Romney won among
married women and white women in 2012; this time, Clinton won among married
women, but 53 percent of white women supported Trump, proving that gender is
just one part of the voting behavior equation.

As I have long argued, despite the inevitable symbolism that will come from
electing the first woman president, nothing will change about our constitution
and/or presidential powers. I concluded in my 2015 book "In It to Win: Electing
Madam President" that a gendered strategy is not necessary for a woman
presidential candidate to win, and I believe the Clinton campaign proved that
point. While some gender advantages may exist, it is the institutional,
constitutional, nuts-and-bolts of the electoral process that ultimately
determines the winner. Despite the advantage in fundraising, political
experience and a superior ground game, the Clinton campaign failed to provide a
strong narrative about why she should be elected, and failed to turn out voters
in the swing states that mattered. The candidate's gender can hardly be blamed
for that.

Lori Cox Han, PhD, is professor of political science at Chapman University.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             207 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

wind, solar seek to gain power;
Alt-energy leaders hope stressing jobs, economic growth will bring Trump on
board

BYLINE: David Danelski; ddanelski@scng.com

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

ABSTRACT

LDN-L-ELX-ENERGY | From PE; will place in SAXO | The nation, especially Southern
California, has pushed hard for alternative fuels, powered by President Obama's
alluring financial incentives by a shift to the right in DC? The state,
encouraged by Gov. Brown, crafted some of the nation's toughest air-quality
standards while private companies took advantage of incentives to build mammoth
solar plants in the desert? Will a different White House agenda that promises to
embrace more traditional fossil fuels set a new tone? Danelski-Bender 30" File
photos, graphic of desert power plants (stunning PE art of desert power plants)
ETA: Thursday 6 pm

FULL TEXT

Wind and solar power proponents hope to appeal to Republican President-elect
Donald Trump's desire for economic growth to persuade him to support their
industries.

Their business means jobs, they say, and the president-elect promised lots of
new jobs.

"We are looking at continued growth and investment," said Greg Wetstone,
president and CEO of the American Council on Renewable Energy.

The green-power business is riding on an unprecedented wave, powered largely by
President Barack Obama, who promoted alternative energy development as a way to
counter global warming. And he matched his enthusiasm with lucrative financial
incentives.

At the crest of that wave, alt-energy leaders hope to counter some of what Trump
said about wind and solar energy during his presidential campaign and define
their business as a proven brand of economic development.

On the campaign trail, Trump called global warming a hoax invented by the
Chinese, despite much scientific consensus that supports the

threat.

In a radio interview with conservative activist Herman Cain last month, Trump
said: "Solar is very, very expensive. Wind is very, very expensive, and it only
works when it's windy." He also said that Riverside County's San Gorgonio Pass
area "looks like a junkyard" because of aging wind farms. "It's the worst thing
you've ever seen."

Trump also vowed to slash environmental regulations to bolster the oil, gas and
coal industries.

But Trump has yet to speak about energy since the election and has appeared
responsive to advice from Obama and others.

Once in the White House, he'll face growing international consensus on climate
change. At the ongoing United Nations climate talks in Marrakech, conference
chair Salaheddine Mezouar of Morocco offered: "Our message to the new American
president is simply to say, 'We count on your pragmatism and your spirit of
commitment.' "

Trump's own stance isn't yet clear. In the same interview with Cain, the
president-elect left the door open to more wind and solar development by adding:
"I'm not saying I'm against those things. I'm for everything. I'm for
everything."

Alternative energy experts, along with local and state officials, said they
don't expect to see a slowdown of residential or commercial solar energy
development in California.

Tim Clark, Trump's California campaign state director, referred questions about
Trump's energy policy to the president-elect's transition team. The team's Web
page asks that press inquiries be sent by email. No one on the team responded to
an inquiry for this report.

Jack Pitney, a professor of politics at Claremont McKenna College, said clean
energy probably will do fine if Trump can be convinced of its economic
viability.

"He is a climate skeptic, so I wouldn't emphasize climate change," Pitney said.
"If I am a lobbyist for the solar industry, I would say this is an effective
form of energy and people can make a lot of money selling it, and he'd be OK
with it."

Two days after the election, about 70 energy, state and local officials gathered
in the desert near Blythe to celebrate the opening of two neighboring solar
plants.

The McCoy and Blythe facilities blanket more than 6 square miles of federal land
in eastern Riverside County and create enough electricity for about 181,000
households.

The new projects exemplify a maturing industry still on the upswing.

Like several other large-scale solar projects, they were built on federal land
with federal tax credits that covered 30 percent of the $1.2 billion development
cost.

In a deal approved by Congress last year that also helped the oil industry,
those credits for solar will stay at 30 percent through 2019. They'll be phased
down to 10 percent by 2022.

Scott Busa, executive director of development for NextEra Energy, said these
credits, plus already obtained land-use entitlements from the federal Bureau of
Land Management, will allow for the Blythe and McCoy projects to expand in the
coming years and more than double energy output.

"We are only about halfway there, and we look forward to future expansion," he
said.

Karen Douglas, a member of the California Energy Commission, also was at the
Nov. 10 ceremony in the desert. She said policies may shift in Washington, but
California's commitment to clean energy that began in the 1970s is unwavering.

"This is going to continue," said Douglas, standing by a sea of solar panels
extending deep into the desert landscape.

California, she said, must meet its own clean energy mandates, which require
that 50 percent of the state's electricity come from carbon-free sources, such
as solar, wind and geothermal facilities.

Industry officials are confident that Trump will see the economic benefits that
they say make clean energy competitive with coal, oil, and natural gas.

Wetstone said that demand for solar and other forms of alternative energy is
increasing as the costs are coming down.

The organization estimates that the renewable energy industry attracts about $44
billion a year in investments, creating thousand of jobs.

Dan Whitten, a spokesman for the Solar Energy Industries Association, said
proponents should appeal to Trump's call for jobs and energy security. Doing
that could help the solar industry thrive during his administration.

"We don't see where he has a motive to stop this train from rolling forward,"
Whitten said.

Riverside County Supervisor John Benoit said he hopes eastern Riverside County
will continue to benefit from solar development. His district includes the
nation's largest solar development zone on public land.

The zone runs along the I-10 corridor between Desert Center and Blythe.

But Benoit remains concerned about Trump's knowledge of alternative energy,
saying much of his rhetoric is "in serious error."

For instance, in the Cain interview, Trump said that "thousands of birds are
lying on the ground" near Palm Springs wind farms. And Trump said that wind
farms kill eagles "by the hundreds."

Wind turbines do kill birds, but not on the scale described by Trump.

A 2013 report by U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service officials documented 85 eagle
deaths (six bald eagles and 79 golden eagles) at 32 wind farms in 10 states that
occurred from 1997 to 2012.

The actual number may be higher because coyotes and other scavengers may run off
with the carcasses before they are found, wildlife officials have said.

Still, wind and solar development creates jobs and has "zero impact on air
quality," said Benoit, a Republican.

"I would hope that his (Trump's) rhetoric will be tempered by business
realities," he said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             208 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

President signs statement of support

BYLINE: Beau Yarbrough; byarbrough@scng.com @LBY3 on Twitter

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 445 words

ABSTRACT

Pomona College president calls on other college presidents to support DACA,
following in the recent footsteps of other California college and university
presidents.

FULL TEXT

CLAREMONT >> Pomona College President David Oxtoby joined a growing chorus of
Southern California college and university presidents last week when he voiced
his support for undocumented students.

On Thursday, Oxtoby sent a statement in support of the federal Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals policy and "our undocumented immigrant students" more
generally to other college and university presidents around the country.

"Since the advent of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in 2012,
we have seen the critical benefits of this program for our students, and the
highly positive impacts on our institutions and communities," Oxtoby's statement
says in part. "DACA beneficiaries on our campuses have been exemplary student
scholars and student leaders, working across campus and in the community.

"With DACA, our students and alumni have been able to pursue opportunities in
business, education, high tech, and the non-profit sector; they have gone to
medical school, law school, and graduate schools in numerous disciplines. They
are actively contributing to their local communities and economies."

The policy was a product of the Obama administration and many now wonder about
its future under the administration of President-elect Donald Trump, who made
increased immigration enforcement and even curtailing the entry of some
immigrants a central part of his presidential campaign. On the campaign trail,
Trump has said he would repeal DACA if elected.

Oxtoby is hoping Trump will change his mind.

"To our country's leaders, we say that DACA should be upheld, continued, and
expanded," the statement says. "We are prepared to meet with you to present our
case. This is both a moral imperative and a national necessity. America needs
talent - and these students, who have been raised and educated in the United
States, are already part of our national community. They represent what is best
about America, and as scholars and leaders they are essential to the future."

According to Pomona College spokeswoman Patricia Cecilia Zurita, "dozens of
presidents have joined the initiative already."

As of 10:30 a.m. Monday, more than 130 college and university presidents from
public and private institutions have a signed statement offering to meet with
U.S. leaders on the issue.

Oxtoby's letter puts him in step with other California educators and
politicians, including California State University Chancellor Tim White, and
California attorney general turned Senator Kamala Harris.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             209 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Get ready for a new voting system debuting in 2018

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 713 words



If you voted this fall in a neighborhood garage or the clubhouse of a park or a
school auditorium, remember the experience well. It may not be repeated anytime
soon. If you saw American flags flying at your precinct polling place, that
sight may also disappear.

A whole new election system is about to begin in California, complete with "vote
centers" and a big expansion of early balloting. The new system will start
phasing in in 2018 in 14 counties and should be operative by 2020 everywhere in
the state.

One thing is for sure: Losing candidates and those who expect to lose will have
new fodder for the "rigged election" cry taken up so vocally this fall by
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. With more mail-in ballots
involved than ever before, same-day voter registration and personnel in place to
provide language assistance, charges of fraud will be common at least while the
new system is being broken in.

The hope behind the new system, pushed hard by Democratic Secretary of State
Alex Padilla and signed into law by Gov. Jerry Brown, is to increase voter
turnout drastically.

After low turnout disappointed officials in 2014 and the off-year elections of
2013 and 2015, they began casting about for changes. The new system will deliver
mail-in ballots to every registered voter in the 28 days before the actual
Election Day, aiming to end any need to vote in a single place on just one day.

"We've got to ... implement a new voting model," said Democratic state Sen. Ben
Allen of Santa Monica, who sponsored the new system in the Legislature. "Our
current system has failed, as our voter turnout rates continued to decline
toward record lows."

Turnout in both the 2014 primary (25 percent of registered voters) and that
year's November general election (42 percent) was at record lows, making Padilla
and the Legislature a bit desperate to push numbers up.

So instead of voters needing to sign up to receive mail-in ballots for every
election, from now on they will go to everyone automatically. Never mind the
tradition of the secret ballot; everyone from labor unions to employers to
neighborhood groups is now free to hold ballot-marking parties before Election
Day. This has actually been true since mail-in voting became common in the late
1970s, and there have never been charges it led to mass fraud or coerced voting
for particular candidates or causes. But such outcries may arise now.

The guinea pigs for the new system will be voters in Calaveras, Inyo, Madera,
Napa, Nevada, Orange, Sacramento, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Clara,
Shasta, Sierra, Sutter and Tuolumne counties, with in-person voting at centers
spotted around each county weeks before Election Day. Voters also will be able
to drop off ballots at those centers, rather than mailing them in.

Counties pushed for this, partly as a cost-cutting measure. The fewer polling
places, the lower the cost of an election. But counties moving to the new system
will all have to adopt detailed plans through a system involving public hearings
and input. Community groups, advocates for the disabled and other individuals
all will be able to express preferences for vote center locations. But expect
them to be placed in public buildings where there's either no rent or low rent.

The politicians behind this system claim it will provide far greater flexibility
than long-standing precinct polling places. "It's time to modernize the voting
process," said Democratic state Sen. Robert Hertzberg of Van Nuys, a co-sponsor.
"We need to provide the same convenience and flexibility (people) have in other
areas of their lives. You can stream a movie or deposit a check with your phone
any time, but without this (change), people still have to arrange their busy
schedules to get to a polling place on a single day and that has hurt turnout."

Only time will tell whether all this actually spurs more people to vote. And no
one knows whether the inevitable charges of fraud or vote-fixing will have any
merit. But the people behind the change are certainly correct about one thing:
Turnout had become far too low in recent years, often allowing a small minority
of eligible voters to choose the people who make key decisions for everyone.

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             210 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Court gives taxi competition a green light

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 545 words

ABSTRACT

Tuesday editorial on taxi regulations

FULL TEXT

While everyone was preoccupied with the impending elections, and particularly
the presidential race, a federal appeals court quietly issued a pair of rulings
upholding deregulation in the taxi and ridesharing market.

The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals issued two separate rulings last month
affirming decisions that reforms opening up taxi markets to greater competition
in Chicago and Milwaukee did not violate the rights of entrenched taxi
interests. The Chicago case concerned the city's decision to allow ridesharing
services such as Uber and Lyft to operate. In the Milwaukee case, the largest
taxicab operator in the city sued after the city removed the cap on taxi
medallions, which significantly reduced the artificially inflated resale value
of the medallions.

Judge Richard Posner did not mince words in the court's Milwaukee decision: "The
plaintiffs' contention that the increased number of permits has taken property
away from the plaintiffs without compensation, in violation of the
constitutional protection of property, borders on the absurd. Property can take
a variety of forms, some of them intangible, such as patents. But a taxi permit
confers only a right to operate a taxicab (a right which, in Milwaukee, may be
sold). It does not create a right to be an oligopolist, and thus confers no
right to exclude others from operating taxis."

The decisions were hailed by the Institute for Justice, a libertarian
public-interest law firm that represented drivers and entrepreneurs in both
cases, and which also has won legal victories against taxi regulations in
Denver, Minneapolis and Bowling Green, Ohio.

"These cases clear the way for transportation freedom across the country," the
institute's Senior Attorney Anthony Sanders said in a statement. "For too long,
cities across the country have embraced an outdated mode of transportation
regulation that says competition is to be feared and that freedom for taxi
drivers or other transportation entrepreneurs is unthinkable. Today's rulings
confirm that there is absolutely no legal barrier to other cities' joining the
rising wave of cities embracing transportation freedom."

Ridesharing services have sparked a flurry of regulatory activity, both for
better and for worse. Initially, governments rushed to impose regulations on the
renegade disrupters, particularly in large cities with powerful traditional taxi
interests. But, as consumers have increasingly rendered their verdict in favor
of ridesharers, and the inevitability of the success of the new business model
has set in, there has been a backlash wave of deregulation - for both
ridesharing companies and taxis.

San Diego followed Milwaukee's lead, lifting its cap on taxi permits two years
ago, and cities across the nation - from Portland, Oregon, to Salt Lake City to
Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, to Sarasota, Florida - have deregulated in recent
years.

This is a great victory for entrepreneurs looking to make a living and
consumers, who benefit from the increased competition in the form of lower
prices and better service. Now, if only occupational licensing laws and other
regulatory and protectionist barriers could be brought down in equal measure and
fervor in other industries.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             211 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Today in history

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words

ABSTRACT

Hist 11-22

FULL TEXT

1718

English pirate Edward Teach - better-known as "Blackbeard" - was killed during a
battle off present-day North Carolina.

1914

The First Battle of Ypres during World War I ended with an Allied victory
against Germany.

1963

John F. Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States, was shot to death
during a motorcade in Dallas; Texas Gov. John B. Connally, riding in the same
car as Kennedy, was seriously wounded; suspected gunman Lee Harvey Oswald was
arrested.

1955

Comic Shemp Howard of "Three Stooges" fame died in Hollywood at age 60.

1965

The musical "Man of La Mancha" opened on Broadway. Singer-songwriter Bob Dylan
married Sara Lownds (the marriage lasted 12 years).

1975

Juan Carlos was proclaimed King of Spain.

1989

Rene Mouawad was killed by a bomb after serving 17 days as president of Lebanon.

1990

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, having failed to win re-election of
the Conservative Party leadership on the first ballot, announced she would
resign.

2006

A chemical factory explosion in Danvers, Massachusetts, destroyed the
surrounding neighborhood but caused no deaths or serious injuries.

2011

Baseball players and owners signed an agreement for a new labor contract, a deal
making baseball the first North American professional major league to start
blood testing on human growth hormone and expanding the playoffs to 10 teams by
2013. Ryan Braun was voted the NL MVP after helping the Milwaukee Brewers win
their first division title in nearly 30 years. Death claimed France's former
first lady Danielle Mitterrand at age 87 and Svetlana Alliluyeva, daughter of
Soviet dictator Josef Stalin, at age 85. Soldier-turned-soap opera star J.R.
Martinez and his professional partner, Karina Smirnoff, were named champions of
season 13 of ABC's "Dancing with the Stars."

2015

Trying to reassure a nation on edge, President Barack Obama said in Malaysia
that the Islamic State group "cannot strike a mortal blow" against the U.S., and
he warned that overreacting to the Paris attacks would play into extremists'
hands. Opposition candidate Mauricio Macri won Argentina's presidential
election, marking an end to the left-leaning era of President Cristina
Fernandez. Former South Korean President Kim Young-sam, 87, who led the
country's transition to democracy, died in Seoul. Actress and artist Adele
Morales Mailer, 90, died in New York. Novak Djokovic won his fourth straight
title at the season-ending ATP finals by beating six-time champion Roger Federer
6-3, 6-4. Kyle Busch won his first career Sprint Cup title claiming the season
finale at Homestead-Miami Speedway. One Direction won artist of the year at the
American Music Awards.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             212 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Trump Cabinet choices: 2 women;
Gov. Nikki Haley picked to be U.S. ambassador to U.N., Betsy DeVos to top
Education

BYLINE: Julie Bykowicz and Steve Peoples; The Associated Press

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 966 words

ABSTRACT

President-elect Donald Trump has chosen two women for his Cabinet-in-waiting:
South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations and prominent charter school advocate Betsy DeVos as his secretary of
education

FULL TEXT

PALM BEACH, Fla. >> Injecting the first diversity into his Cabinet-to-be, Donald
Trump selected two Republican women on Wednesday who disparaged him during the
presidential campaign: South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley to serve as U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations and charter school advocate Betsy DeVos to lead
the federal Department of Education.

Haley has little foreign policy experience, yet Trump praised her as "a proven
dealmaker." DeVos, like Trump, is new to government but has spent decades
working to change America's system of public education.

DeVos and Haley are the first women selected for top-level administration posts
as the president-elect works to shape a White House team from scratch. Haley is
the daughter of Indian immigrants, so she also would be his first minor

ity selection after a string of announcements of white men.

Retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson said "an announcement is forthcoming" on his
role, which would make him the first black choice - presumably as secretary of
Housing and Urban Development - but he also suggested he'd be thinking about it
over the Thanksgiving holiday.

"I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our
inner cities great for everyone," Carson wrote on his Facebook page.

Wednesday's picks came as Trump worked to distance himself from the "alt-right,"
a movement of white supremacists who continue to cheer his election.

He announced his two new choices in a statement released as he gathered with
family behind closed doors at his Palm Beach estate for Thanksgiving. He's
spending the holiday there after a week of interviews of potential appointees in
New York, punctuated by announcements of members of his national security team.

Bad blood between Trump and his new Cabinet selections was evident through much
of this year's campaign.

"The people of South Carolina are embarrassed by Nikki Haley!" Trump wrote in
March. Haley denounced several of his campaign comments and urged voters to
"reject the siren call of the angriest voices."

DeVos told The Associated Press in July, "A lot of the things he has said are
very off-putting and concerning."

On Wednesday, Trump said of his U.N. selection: "Gov. Haley has a proven track
record of bringing people together regardless of background or party affiliation
to move critical policies forward for the betterment of her state and our
country."

She said she loved her South Carolina post but "when the president believes you
have a major contribution to make to the welfare of our nation, and to our
nation's standing in the world, that is a calling that is important to heed."

While Republicans praised Haley's selection, DeVos faced criticism from left and
right.

The president of the National Education Association, Lily Eskelsen Garcia, said
in a statement that for years DeVos "has lobbied for failed schemes, like
vouchers - which take away funding and local control from our public schools -
to fund private schools at taxpayers' expense."

And Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, tweeted,
"Trump has chosen the most ideological, anti-public ed nominee since the
creation of the Dept of Education."

At the same time, some conservatives warned that the longtime Republican donor,
who has spent millions of dollars - along with her husband - to promote
candidates who favor charter schools and school vouchers, also supports the
Common Core education standards that Trump railed against during the campaign.

Conservatives already were grappling with Trump's Tuesday concession that
climate change may be connected to human activity and his reversal of a campaign
vow to pursue a criminal investigation into Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.

DeVos addressed criticism head-on, posting a "Q&A" statement that said directly
about Common Core: "I am not a supporter - period."

"I do support high standards," she said. But along the way Common Core "got
turned into a federal boondoggle."

Just two weeks ago, Trump shocked the political world - including many in his
own party - by winning the presidential contest. The billionaire New Yorker has
yet to take any formal steps to separate from his international business empire
as experts in both parties warn of potential conflicts of interest.

Trump will be sworn into office in less than 60 days. Beyond his Cabinet, he
must fill hundreds of high-level administration posts.

Spokesman Jason Miller said Trump now is focusing on his choice for secretary of
state in particular. Among those under consideration: former New York Mayor and
Trump loyalist Rudy Giuliani and 2012 GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney,
formerly an outspoken Trump critic.

After secretary of state, the U.N. ambassador is the highest-profile diplomatic
position, often serving as the voice for U.S. positions on the international
stage.

As for DeVos, her family has been active in Republican politics for decades,
especially as donors. Her husband, Dick, is an heir to the Amway fortune and a
former president of the company.

The American Federation for Children Action Fund, which DeVos chairs, and its
state-affiliated PACs invested in 121 races in 12 states in the general
election, spending spent $210,000 to support "pro-school choice" candidates in
Oklahoma alone.

"Under her leadership we will reform the U.S. education system and break the
bureaucracy that is holding our children back so that we can deliver world-class
education and school choice to all families," Trump said.

DeVos said in her own statement, "The status quo in education is not
acceptable."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             213 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Food not feud at the table;
Happy holiday: How to remain civil while talking political turkey today

BYLINE: Jeff Horseman; jhorseman@scng.com, @JeffHorseman

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1180 words

ABSTRACT

PE_R_POLITURKEY_1123 | Thanksgiving is a time for feasting, family get-togethers
and the inevitable dinner table screaming match between your arch-conservative
uncle and his ultra-liberal niece. With Donald Trump's election provoking strong
reactions, this Thanksgiving's politics talk could be even more intense. We talk
with experts to see if there's any way to make these debates more civil and
perhaps give liberals and conservatives resources to find talking points.
Reporter/Editor: Horseman/Bender Length: 33 Art: TK ETA: 5 p.m. Tuesday

FULL TEXT

"Pass the gravy. I'll have some more stuffing. Oh, and Uncle Bob, why do you
hate America?"

Such table talk might be a staple of your Thanksgiving dinner. But while
politics discussed over cranberry sauce is nothing new, this year's dinner-time
debate could be especially intense in the wake of November's divisive
presidential election.

"When it comes to politics, people get emotional because it relates to their
belief system," said Bart Rossi, a political psychologist who frequently appears
on TV news shows.

"They're not just challenging Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton. It's your
personal belief system, which is serious stuff."

John Berry, a cabinet member of the Redlands Tea Party Patriots who loves to
talk politics, plans to spend Thanksgiving in Laguna Beach with his in-laws.

"Inside, I'm doing a Snoopy-like happy dance," said Berry, who describes himself
as "surrounded by liberals."

At Thanksgiving dinner, Berry said he will bite the inside of his cheeks to keep
from gloating.

"It's kind of funny. When the liberals

won in 2008, they weren't shy about expressing their opinion," Berry added. "But
if they bring it up, I'm going to give it to them both barrels."

The chances of your turkey coming with a side of discord could rise if your
relatives are geographically scattered. This election underscored deep divisions
between different parts of the country. California went strongly for Hillary
Clinton, but Donald Trump did better in the South and Rust Belt.

Before you lose your voice screaming at your niece about her Bernie Sanders
tattoo, here are some strategies for keeping the food and politics separate - or
at least, arguing in a way that won't cause anyone to storm off.

Expect the best

For many, just the thought of hearing Cousin Mike talk about immigration is
enough to cause heartburn hours before the first spoonful of Aunt Jane's
jalapeño-infused cheese dip.

Kate Sweeny, a UC Riverside associate psychology professor who studies how
people cope with uncertain waiting periods, suggests distracting yourself in a
way that completely consumes you. Maybe it's video games. Or it could be
gardening or getting a head start on that work project.

You could plan responses in advance, Sweeny said. For example, if your father
shows up in his "Make America Great Again" hat, say "Nice hat!" and change the
subject.

Sweeny also suggests not assuming the worst will happen. "I do think in this
sort of circumstance, expecting the best can only help you," Sweeny said. "If
you go in expecting the worst behavior, you might create a self-fulfilling
prophecy."

Thanksgiving hosts need to be prepared for how to handle political talk, said
Tim Muehlhoff, a professor of communications at Biola University in La Mirada.
"In addition to assessing what stuffing to make, a host couple needs to assess
the overall communication climate that will envelop the day's activities," he
said.

Reciting Abraham Lincoln's Thanksgiving Day proclamation from 1863 is a
Thanksgiving tradition for Huntington Beach resident Ken Gordon's family.

"It's a good time to bring up and point out to our children how much more
faith-based our nation was," said Gordon, 52, a decline-to-state/unaffiliated
voter who said he left the Republican Party.

This Thanksgiving, Gordon also anticipates talking about the party of Lincoln.
"I think, at the time of this proclamation, (the GOP was) the party of the
disenfranchised," he said. "I would not say that any longer."

Locker room talk

An easy way to avoid a yam-fueled shouting match over Trump's tax policy is to
make clear ahead of time that there's no space on the table for a family edition
of CNN's "Crossfire."

Bill Southworth, a professor of speech and debate history at the University of
Redlands, recommends a "locker room" edict.

"There are two subjects never to be discussed in the locker room - politics and
religion," he said. "All family gatherings (especially those with split voters)
should agree not to mention Clinton or Trump or anything about the election. If
violated, the offending party should leave or the guest should feel free to
depart."

Rossi, the political psychologist, suggests taking the blame for a moratorium.
"(Say) 'I've been especially involved (with this election). At this point in
time, I could use a day to relax and eat some turkey,'" he said.

You also can limit your political discussions to those with like-minded
viewpoints. "This way, you will find yourself talking to family and friends who
support your feelings and perspective," said David Kaplan, a family counselor
and chief professional officer of the American Counseling Association.

"Given the divisiveness of the recent election, trying to vent to someone who
voted for the candidate you opposed or to change their perspective is just going
to make you feel worse."

Radine Hiers, a Moreno Valley Democrat, said she won't be inviting any family
members "who disregarded the rights of any Americans."

"Never have I ever limited differing political views from my life. I really like
political debate," she said. "They could have voted for any other candidate. But
when they crossed into the very apparent and blatantly exposed racism ... (it)
is a line I will no longer accept."

How to argue

Avoidance and positivity have failed. Now, your sister-in-law demands to know
why you voted for "Crooked Hillary."

First, swallow the green beans. Then, rather than call her stupid, "(Say) 'I'm
on the other side and here's why,'" Rossi said. "Highlight as succinctly as
possible why you feel this way.

"You're not arguing to win the argument or change somebody else's personality.
You're just trying to get your point in and move on."

Listening also is important, Rossi said. "Be able to say back to the person what
they said. You can say 'I heard you and you said this. This is why I'm on the
other side of it.' "

You also could point out why you disagree even though you stand to benefit from
the election's outcome, Rossi said.

"Let's suppose you don't really like Donald Trump ... but let's say you get a
really big tax advantage (with his election)," he said. "You could say 'I
actually stand to gain in some ways. However, I'm really on the other side of
everything he stands for.' Or vice versa with Hillary Clinton."

Steven Smith, 29, of Riverside, who said he was "very disappointed" with the
election results, plans to host a family Thanksgiving.

"If anything, I want to take this day to be positive and remember why we are
eating (and) remember the reasons to be thankful and hopeful for the future."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             214 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

DREAMers Resource and Success Center celebrates its anniversary

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 361 words

ABSTRACT

S

FULL TEXT

SAN BERNARDINO >> About 100 people gathered Tuesday at Cal State San Bernardino
to celebrate the one-year anniversary of the DREAMers Resource and Success
Center and its focus to help undocumented students, according to a university
news release.

Students, faculty, administrators, staff and guests took part in the celebration
at the Santos Manuel Student Union lobby. The center provides a place on campus
where undocumented students can meet, exchange ideas and support one another.

CSUSB President Tom[#xfffd]s D. Morales and Rep. Pete Aguilar, D-San Bernardino,
voiced support for the center Tuesday, according to the news release.

Morales said the center has extended its reach off campus to aid students. It
has, he said, also secured pro bono legal assistance to help students and their
families with immigration issues, the news release stated.

"The center not only serves our campus community, but also a larger community,"
Morales said, in the release.

The center brings awareness to the California Dream Act (financial aid),
employment opportunities, scholarships, internships, immigration services,
information about graduate school and other resources to help students success.

The anniversary celebration came two weeks after the U.S. presidential election,
which has left uncertainties in the status of DREAMers.

But Morales said California State University system Chancellor Tim White and Cal
State Student Association President David Lopez "have pledged that both the CSU
and the Cal State Students Association will seek to hold our political leaders
to account, regardless of party, and will be leading advocates in advancing the
rights of our students, faculty and staff."

Aguilar presented the center with a congressional proclamation.

"I know there is a lot of fear out there within the community as well when it
comes to the decisions that could be made within the next administration,"
Aguilar, representing the 31st Congressional District, said in the news release.

"But I want you to know something," he continued. "Everyone here is supportive
of you and will offer a safe space to work, to be educated to learn and to share
with one another."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             215 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Corbynization of Democratic Party

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 941 words


The Democratic Party's current festival of re-examination is both necessary and
justified. They have just lost to the most unpopular presidential candidate in
recent memory. Lockstep media support and a much larger war chest were not
enough to save them from losing not only the presidency, but also in state races
across the country.

Since President Obama's first election, Democrats have lost control of the House
and Senate, as well as a dozen governors' houses and roughly 900 state
legislative seats. Republicans have control of all levels of government in 24
states, while Democrats have total control over six. Overall, the party seems
incapable of reaching out to the middle part of the country, white and
middle-class voters.

This contrasts with the 1990s, when a group of party activists consciously
rebuilt the party to appeal to middle-class Americans. Groups like the
Democratic Leadership Council - for whose think tank, the Progressive Policy
Institute, I worked for several years - pushed notions of personal
responsibility, welfare reform, tough crime policies and economic growth that,
embraced by Bill Clinton, expanded the party's base in the Midwest, the
Appalachians and even the Southeast.

Leftward Ho!

Such a shift to the middle is unlikely today. Progressives generally see Hillary
Clinton's loss as largely a rejection of her husband's neoliberal policies and
want to push the party further to the left.

This parallels developments in the United Kingdom, where, following their defeat
in 2015, the La

bour Party promoted a far-left figure, Jeremy Corbyn, as its leader. This was
driven by grassroots progressives - deeply green, multiculturalist and openly
socialist. Many, including several high up in Labour's parliamentary party,
believe the party has little chance to win under such leadership.

Democrats face a similar dilemma. Driven by their dominant academic and media
"thought police," any shift to the middle on issues like crime, climate change
or regulation now seems unimaginable. Self-described progressives who now
dominate the party generally adhere to a series of policies - from open borders
to draconian climate change policies - that are unlikely to play well outside
the coastal enclaves.

Some of the criticism of Clintonian neoliberalism is somewhat justified. As the
emergence of both Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump suggests, support for
globalization and free trade has weakened in both parties. This reflects the
fact that economic gains have become increasingly concentrated since Clinton
left office, and even under the progressive hero, Barack Obama. It's hard to
argue, as the DLC did 25 years ago, for a more market-based system when the vast
majority fail to benefit while the upper echelons do much better.

So it is no surprise, then, that the hyperregulatory and redistributionist
agendas epitomized by Sens. Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders are now
ascendant. This pattern is exacerbated by the party's increasing indifference to
economic growth, in large part, due to their embrace of draconian climate change
policies. Climate change policies, as now constituted, tend to suppress
higher-wage, blue-collar employment. If you give up on growth to save the
planet, the only real solution remaining is massive redistribution, including a
web of subsidies to make up for the lack of income growth, affordable housing
and economic opportunity.

The multiculti trap

The Corbynization of the Democratic Party also turns on militant
multiculturalism. This agenda is shaped, as in Britain, by a disjointed concert
of grievance groups, ranging from gender activists to those who claim to
represent Latinos, African Americans, Asians, Muslims and others, whose
alienation has been exacerbated by Trump's triumph. Trump's nationalist rhetoric
is particularly disliked by progressives who, as author and New America fellow
Michael Lind notes in a recent National Review column, find the very idea of
borders and national interests reactionary and inherently racist.

This identity politics, some liberals note, has driven many whites into a
defensive crouch and pushed them toward the Republicans. Yet, there is little
sign that the party will move in their direction. After all, Hillary labeled
them "deplorables" - not much of a sales pitch. After the election, progressive
journalists have portrayed Trump voters as irredeemably racist, misogynist,
stupid and even too "fat." Summing up, suggests Slate's Jamelle Bouie, there's
no such thing as a "good Trump voter."

Inside the progressive echo chamber, many still believe that an alliance of
minorities, gender activists and millennials will make their victory inevitable.
This can be seen in the tendency of Democrats, just as there is a palpable rise
in crime, to invite the militant Black Lives Matter movement into their tent.

Perhaps nothing more illustrates the Corbynite trend than the proposal to make
Minnesota Rep. Keith Ellison chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
Ellison does check off the diversity boxes, but also would place in party
leadership someone who has embraced the Nation of Islam, supports the boycott of
Israeli products and has compared 9-11 to the Reichstag fire that facilitated
the Nazi dictatorship.

Going left may be emotionally satisfying to Democrats who feel abandoned by
their less progressive fellow citizens. But abandoning the middle of the
spectrum does not seem an effective way to get back into power.

Joel Kotkin is the R.C. Hobbs Presidential Fellow in Urban Futures at Chapman
University in Orange and executive director of the Houston-based Center for
Opportunity Urbanism (www.opportunityurbanism.org).

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             216 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Why Sanchez's hopes went south

BYLINE: John Phillips

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 634 words

ABSTRACT

For LDN, LPT, TDB, SGVN. No column sig. No pullquote.

FULL TEXT

Virtually every aspect of the presidential election has been broken down and
analyzed by experts and pundits, who are still in a state of shock over the
results. Because President-elect Donald Trump's victory caught almost everyone
by surprise, don't expect this analysis to slow down any time soon.

Getting lost in the shuffle were many of the down-ballot races that also
produced fascinating results.

Take for example, the contest to see who would replace retiring U.S. Sen.
Barbara Boxer as California's junior senator.

All of the public polls had Golden State Attorney General Kamala Harris
comfortably ahead of Orange County Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez in the Democrat
vs. Democrat match up. And I think it's safe to say that most experts
anticipated a comfortable Harris victory. What nobody expected was the 62-38
percent shellacking that Sanchez ended up taking.

There is no way to sugarcoat this, she got creamed.

Now, I'd be lying to you if I didn't say that the perennially undisciplined
Sanchez made a bunch of gaffes that contributed to her defeat.

She did.

But her missteps aren't what caused her to lose. The cake, in many ways, was
already baked.

Way back in July, the bigwigs in the Northern California-dominated California
Democratic Party put the word out that Harris was their preferred candidate.
This move effectively cut off any chance Sanchez had at raising money, winning
influential endorsements and getting the party rank and file behind her.

Not only did Harris pick up the endorsements of California Gov. Jerry Brown and
the California Democratic Party, she also got the blessing of President Obama
and Vice President Joe Biden.

In a written statement released by the Harris campaign, the president and vice
president said, "Kamala Harris fights for us. That's why I'm so proud to endorse
her for United States senator. ... And if you send her to the Senate, she'll be
a fearless fighter for the people of California - all the people of California -
every single day."

There's mass speculation that former San Francisco Mayor and current California
Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom could get the same kind of home cooking in his bid for
governor in 2018.

And If another former San Francisco Mayor, Dianne Feinstein, decides to seek
another six-year-term in the U.S. Senate in 2018, her support within the
Democratic Party will surely be locked down.

The most likely outcome is that the Northern California dominance of the state's
top-of-the-ticket offices will continue for another generation.

How did this happen when most of the state's population lives south of
Bakersfield? Easy. A clique of San Francisco Bay politicians control the
Democratic Party in a one-party state, and they take care of their friends and
neighbors.

Just look at the roster; Jerry Brown is a former mayor of Oakland, House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi represents San Francisco in Congress, California
Democratic Party Chairman John Burton used to represent San Francisco in the
state Legislature, and Democratic Party sugar daddy Tom Steyer resides in the
City by the Bay.

At a certain point, Southern California Democrats will have to accept the
reality that they've hit their political ceiling when they become a big-city
mayor or congressman, or a state legislative leader.

Or, they're going to have to beat the machine.

Option B is easier said than done and would require the type of
coalition-building that Sanchez was incapable of doing, which would almost
certainly involve California Republicans.

Eventually, some politician will beat the machine. The only question is when.

John Phillips is a CNN political commentator and can be heard weekdays at 3 p.m.
on "The Drive Home with Jillian Barberie and John Phillips" on KABC/AM 790.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             217 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Red state/blue state: Where would you rather live?

BYLINE: Thomas D. Elias

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 715 words


"The pundits like to slice and dice our country into red states and blue
states," Barack Obama famously observed in 2004, several years before he ran for
president. "But I've got news for them: There's the United States of America."

Twelve years later, Obama is about to depart the White House, and by now he has
probably learned there are significant differences between so-called "red"
states that tend to vote Republican in presidential elections and "blue" ones
that usually support Democrats. The colors, of course, come from maps often used
as television graphics during election coverage.

What are some of those differences? While campaigning - at least before Donald
Trump - Republicans have tended to focus on values, claiming families and
traditional marriages are stronger in red states than blue ones, while Democrats
contend poor people, minorities and women are better off in blue ones.

California, of course, has been a consistently blue state since 1992, when Bill
Clinton carried it with a plurality of the vote against the elder George Bush,
not winning an actual majority here until 1996.

Republicans often say California Democrats have wrecked the Golden State over
the last 25 years, citing what they insist is a declining quality of life and an
expanded role for government.

It's true Democrats have dominated the Legislature almost all that time, passing
laws that regulate everything from cellphone use in cars to teaching about gay
history in high schools. A "nanny state," many Republicans call it, ignoring the
fact Republican governors like Pete Wilson and Arnold Schwarzenegger signed off
on most of the new regulations Democrats passed in the last quarter-century.

Ethnically speaking, California became blue when its Latinos began to get
politically active. But in many other ways, this is statistically a pretty
standard blue state, and there are major differences between those states and
their red rivals. Here are some (based on U.S. Census data):

o Blue states tend to have a more educated populace; California is fairly
typical with 37.4 percent of adults holding college degrees. Deeply blue
Massachusetts (despite its Republican governor) ranks first in this category
with 53.4 percent of adults holding at least a bachelor's degree. At the bottom
in this category is a corps of red states including Alaska at 26.6 percent,
Texas at 32.2 percent and Arizona with 33 percent.

o Red states tend to have a far higher percentage of people abusing drugs, led
by West Virginia with 25.8 persons out of every 100,000 dying of drug overdoses
each year, Utah with 18.4 and Alaska 18.1 in 2008, the last year for which
statistics are available. Red states like Louisiana, Arizona, Alabama, Oklahoma
and Tennessee all topped 14 per 100,000 in this sad category. California, again
in drug abuse a fairly normal blue state, saw only 10.4 persons out of every
100,000 take fatal overdoses, both from illegal drugs and prescription ones.
(Statistics from the Policy Impact Report of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.)

o A little counterintuitive, the map of states with the highest Census-reported
divorce rates is also almost all red, including Oklahoma, Arkansas, Alaska,
Alabama, Kentucky, Nevada (the only blue state here, but also the only state
with an active quickie divorce industry), Mississippi, Georgia, Tennessee and
Arizona.

o Unemployment, on the other hand, is a mixed bag. In the latest Department of
Labor statistics, three red states (Alaska, Louisiana and West Virginia) are
among the top six, with Alaska leading the unfortunate way at 6.7 percent, but
they are joined by three usually blue states (Illinois, New Mexico and the
District of Columbia).

o Red state citizens tend to be more charitable, with the eight states donating
the highest share of their personal income to charity - Utah, Mississippi,
Alabama, Tennessee, South Carolina, Idaho, Arkansas and Georgia - all pretty
reliably Republican. (Data from the Chronicle of Philanthropy.)

All of which raises some questions: Do Republican "family values" equate to
higher divorce rates and lower college education? Does going Democratic make
people less charitable? Or are none of these things linked to politics at all?

Thomas D. Elias is a writer in Southern California. tdelias@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             218 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 359 words

ABSTRACT

For all LANG papers

FULL TEXT

We asked readers, What should be Donald Trump's top priority as president?


New president should let Constitution be his guide

Donald Trump's top priority should be to learn and understand the Constitution
and the complexity of the presidency. I'm totally devastated by the outcome of
this presidential election, which was predicated on hate, fear, racism, bigotry
and lies.

Having the likes of a man like Trump becoming president of the U.S. is
frightening. I am hoping that this glorious country of ours isn't decimated by
this uninformed man who truly doesn't know how the U.S. government operates.

The job of the president is too important to hand over to a man not qualified,
who has a volatile temperament and is thin-skinned to criticism.

- Lois Eisenberg, Valencia

First, close the border

Trump should close the border first, stop the chaos and support the border
guards.

- Patricia Serio, Covina

Quit while he's ahead?

President-elect Trump's top priority should be resigning from office before he's
impeached.

- Ray Sherman, Duarte

A neutral view of Trump

I don't know what to think about Donald Trump's plans. Some I support, others I
don't. Love him or deplore him, he's got everyone's attention and it's been a
compelling story to watch unfold. Who knows what drama, success and failures
will emerge in the next four years?

One concern is how all the major news media lost credibility with biased
reporting. I commend the newspaper for trying to remain neutral.

- Lynn Wood, Long Beach

Follow the popular vote

He lost by more than 2 million votes; he should accept that he was not the
choice of the American people, and not accept a prize that he did not earn. He
can instruct electors pledged to him to vote for the real winner: Hillary
Clinton.

Let him avoid the example of Sarah Palin, who learned she couldn't be the boss
of everything and quit in the middle of her term as Alaska governor to make more
money.

- Stephen Kandis, Rancho Palos Verdes

More answers to this Question of the Week will be published Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             219 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Mnuchin is expected choice for Treasury

SECTION: A,A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 813 words


WASHINGTON >> Steven Terner Mnuchin, a financier with deep roots on Wall Street
and in Hollywood but no government experience, is expected to be named Donald J.
Trump's Treasury secretary as soon as Wednesday, sources close to the transition
say.

Mnuchin, 53, was the national finance chairman for Trump's campaign. He began
his career at Goldman Sachs, where he became a partner, before creating his own
hedge fund, moving to the West Coast and entering the first rank of movie
financiers by bankrolling hits like the "X-Men" franchise and "Avatar."

As Treasury secretary, Mnuchin would play an important role in shaping the
administration's economic policies, including a package of promised tax cuts,
increased spending on infrastructure and changes in the terms of foreign trade.
He could also help lead any effort to roll back President Barack Obama's nuclear
deal with Iran and opening to Cuba by reimposing sanctions on Tehran and Havana.

His selection fits uneasily with much of Trump's campaign rhetoric attacking the
financial industry. Trump, in a campaign ad intended as a closing argument,
portrayed the chief executive of Goldman Sachs as the personification of a
global elite that the ad said had "robbed our working class."

But Mnuchin has said that he agrees with Trump's priorities, and he was an early
supporter of a candidate who clearly prizes loyalty.

When Trump won New York's Republican presidential primary in April, Mnuchin
attended the victory party. The next day, he accepted Trump's invitation to
become the campaign's national finance director.

Mnuchin, the son of a Goldman Sachs partner, joined the firm after graduating
from Yale University. He worked there for 17 years, rising to oversee trading in
government securities and mortgage bonds.

Mnuchin has never worked in government, but Treasury secretaries are often drawn
from the private sector. He would become the third Goldman alumnus to serve in
the job, after Henry M. Paulson Jr., under President George W. Bush; and Robert
E. Rubin, under President Bill Clinton.

Transportation: Chao

She is a woman and an immigrant, a fixture of the Republican establishment for
two decades. She is a savvy and professional practitioner of the capital's
inside game.

And now she is going to work for President-elect Donald Trump.

Trump named Elaine L. Chao on Tuesday as his choice to be the next secretary of
transportation, elevating someone whose background and experience are in many
respects completely at odds with the brash and disruptive tenor of his
anti-Washington campaign.

But her selection also signaled Trump's understanding of the need to surround
himself with people who can help him accomplish the most ambitious parts of his
agenda, even if they come from the political establishment he has so often
scorned.

His transportation secretary is likely to be one of the more essential players.
Trump, a real estate magnate, has said that infrastructure redevelopment will be
a priority of his first 100 days in office. And Chao has experience -
politically and personally - in navigating the competing centers of power in the
capital. She is married to Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the majority leader.

This will be her second time serving in a White House Cabinet if she is
confirmed. As secretary of labor under President George W. Bush, she was the
only official in his administration to serve all eight years.

Before that, she worked in various departments across the federal government.
She was a White House fellow under President Ronald Reagan and the director of
the Peace Corps under President George Bush, who also named her deputy
transportation secretary.

Her r[#xfffd]sum[#xfffd] speaks to the ease with which she runs in powerful
circles in Washington and beyond. She has worked for Harvard's Kennedy School of
Government as well as the conservative Heritage Foundation. She was also a
frequent commentator on Fox News, a role that several of Trump's other Cabinet
picks and candidates share, like K.T. McFarland, whom he named as his deputy
national security adviser.

She adds some diversity to a Cabinet that is so far heavily older, white and
male. Chao, 63, was born in Taiwan and moved to the U.S. with her family at 8.

While the public aspects of her life are well known, Chao has also played an
integral, behind-the-scenes role in her husband's political career, most
recently as he fought off efforts to unseat him in 2014. Described by friends
and colleagues as unrelenting, she occasionally stepped out into the public eye
to take on her husband's antagonists.

Sometimes they also came for her, and she was happy to take them on as well.
After a liberal Kentucky group suggested in 2013 that Chao was somehow connected
to the flight of U.S. jobs to China - a jab evidently intended to portray
McConnell as too cozy with U.S. business interests - she starred in a commercial
and rushed to his defense.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 MediaNews Group, Inc. Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             220 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Son-in-Law Tests Legal Path to Job in White House

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS and MAGGIE HABERMAN; Julie Hirschfeld Davis
reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Emmarie Huetteman
contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words


WASHINGTON -- Jared Kushner, the son-in-law of President-elect Donald J. Trump,
has spoken to a lawyer about the possibility of joining the new administration,
a move that could violate federal anti-nepotism law and risk legal challenges
and political backlash.

Mr. Kushner, 35, the husband of Mr. Trump's eldest daughter, Ivanka, and an
influential adviser to his father-in-law during the presidential campaign, had
been planning to return to his private businesses after Election Day. But on the
morning after Mr. Trump won, Mr. Kushner began discussing taking a role in the
White House, according to two people briefed on the conversations who requested
anonymity to describe Mr. Kushner's thinking.

Mr. Trump is urging his son-in-law to join him in the White House, according to
one of the people briefed. The president-elect's sentiment is shared by Stephen
K. Bannon, the chief strategist for the White House, and Reince Priebus, who was
named chief of staff. Mr. Kushner accompanied Mr. Trump to the White House on
Thursday, when the president-elect held his first in-person meeting with
President Obama.

Mr. Kushner may be as influential, if not as well known, in Manhattan as his
father-in-law. Mr. Kushner is a real estate mogul in his own right who, like Mr.
Trump, runs a company founded by his father. His influence extends to the news
media: He owns The New York Observer. And his family's wealth rivals that of the
Trump clan, which he joined in 2009 when he married Ivanka.

Mr. Kushner has already figured prominently in the tumultuous start to the
transition. He was involved in the effort to oust Gov. Chris Christie of New
Jersey, who as a federal prosecutor jailed Mr. Kushner's father, Charles B.
Kushner, more than a decade ago. Trump officials have systematically fired those
Mr. Christie had selected for the effort. Transition officials have rejected
claims that Mr. Kushner was involved in a payback effort and pointed to Mr.
Christie's troubles after two aides were convicted in the George Washington
Bridge traffic scandal in New Jersey. They also suggested that the preliminary
transition work had been subpar.

Mr. Trump's desire to add Mr. Kushner to his administration gives weight to
speculation that he intends to run the White House the way he runs his
businesses, relying heavily on his children and delegating essential duties to
them.

And it adds another element of unpredictability to an unconventional handover of
power, although there were signs on Thursday that Mr. Trump's transition
operation was edging toward normalcy after its chaotic first week.

Mr. Trump sat down with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, his first in-person
session with a world leader since winning the White House. A clearer picture
also emerged of the figures who have Mr. Trump's ear. Among them is Lt. Gen.
Michael T. Flynn, a retired intelligence officer who a top transition team
official said was Mr. Trump's choice for national security adviser, and Senator
Jeff Sessions, the Alabama Republican who is under consideration to be attorney
general or secretary of state.

On Capitol Hill, Vice President-elect Mike Pence told House Republicans to
''buckle up'' in anticipation of a packed legislative session.

Mr. Trump's aides held their first scheduled daily conference call with
reporters while transition officials whose work had been stalled by shake-ups in
Trump Tower began work with their Obama administration counterparts on a
handover.

But the prospect that Mr. Kushner might end up in the West Wing remained a
concern to some people close to the president-elect, who said he would instantly
become a target for media and legal attacks if he took the unorthodox step.

Mr. Kushner has consulted with at least one lawyer and believes that by forgoing
a salary and putting his investment fund, his real estate holdings and The New
York Observer into a blind trust, he would not be bound by federal nepotism
rules, according to one of the people briefed.

Ethics lawyers in both parties said that such an arrangement would violate a
federal statute designed to prevent family ties from influencing the functioning
of the United States government. Under a 1967 law enacted after John F. Kennedy
installed his brother, Robert F. Kennedy, as attorney general, no public
official can hire a family member -- including one related by marriage -- to an
agency or office over which he has authority. A separate statute also makes it a
crime, punishable by a fine and up to two years of prison time, for government
employees to accept voluntary services that are not authorized by law, except in
emergency situations.

The anti-nepotism law ''would seem to block out Kushner flatly,'' said Norman L.
Eisen, who served as Mr. Obama's ethics counsel during his transition and at the
White House. If Mr. Trump were to try to skirt it by having Mr. Kushner advise
him in a volunteer capacity, he added, he ''would be treading upon very serious
statutory and constitutional grounds.''

''When push comes to shove, on the very hardest calls that confront a president,
you want the president's adviser to remember that their oath or affirmation to
the Constitution comes first, before family ties,'' Mr. Eisen said. ''You need
to be able to say no. You need to be able to hold the line. You need to be able
to threaten to resign, and you need to be able to actually resign. You can't
resign from being somebody's son-in-law.''

Richard W. Painter, an ethics counsel to George W. Bush, said he remembered
having to inform a senior official serving Mr. Bush that he was legally barred
from granting a White House internship to his son. Mr. Painter based his
decision on a reading of the anti-nepotism law by the Justice Department's
Office of Legal Counsel during Jimmy Carter's administration, which barred the
president from doing so for his own child.

''I told him: 'Jimmy Carter couldn't do it. If the president of the United
States couldn't do it, I can't do it for your kid,''' Mr. Painter recalled. ''I
got cussed out.''

Mr. Trump could try to circumvent the law, the lawyers said, by arguing that he
has broad executive authority as president to choose his advisers. But that move
would probably invite a legal challenge, forcing a court to decide whether the
president's executive authority to choose his advisers takes precedent over a
law passed by Congress that bans nepotism in the government.

Mr. Trump could also try to invoke the example of Hillary Clinton. A 1993
decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit held that Mrs. Clinton, whom President Bill Clinton had appointed to
lead his health care task force, was acting as a full-time government employee
and therefore the panel could shield its meetings and records from the public.
The decision hinted that the anti-nepotism statute might not have been meant to
apply to the White House or to unpaid positions.

But the ruling also said the first lady had a unique and widely recognized role
in helping the president to carry out his duties -- she had an office in the
White House and a staff -- a distinction that would not apply to Mr. Kushner.
The Clintons paid a steep political price for insisting that Mrs. Clinton had a
right to serve on the task force, ultimately losing both the Senate and the
House in 1994 as Republicans assailed what they portrayed as a White House run
amok.

''You can try to wiggle your way around the law, but you've got to realize the
political reality that this is prohibited under the statute,'' Mr. Painter said.
''It's a power grab. It's an overreach.''

The question of Mr. Kushner's role also highlights a broader challenge facing
Mr. Trump and his children as he assumes the presidency: how to separate his
role as leader of the country from his vast real estate and business empire and
avoid conflicts of interest.

Even if Mr. Kushner placed his own holdings in a blind trust, his marriage to
Ms. Trump poses an inherent conflict, according to ethics experts, because he
would have access through his wife to information about Mr. Trump's businesses
that the president-elect should be barred from knowing.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/18/us/politics/donald-trump-administration.html

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jared Kushner, son-in-law of President-elect Donald J. Trump,
who is said to have urged Mr. Kushner to join his administration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             221 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump Won Battle of Ranting, Raving Twitter Robots, Researchers Say

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 940 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- An automated army of pro-Donald J. Trump chatbots overwhelmed
similar programs supporting Hillary Clinton five to one in the days leading up
to the presidential election, according to a report published Thursday by
researchers at Oxford University.

The chatbots -- basic software programs with a bit of artificial intelligence
and rudimentary communication skills -- would send messages on Twitter based on
a topic, usually defined on the social network by a word preceded by a hashtag
symbol, like #Clinton.

Their purpose: to rant, confuse people on facts, or simply muddy discussions,
said Philip N. Howard, a sociologist at the Oxford Internet Institute and one of
the authors of the report. If you were looking for a real debate of the issues,
you weren't going to find it with a chatbot.

''They're yelling fools,'' Dr. Howard said. ''And a lot of what they pass around
is false news.''

The role fake news played in the presidential election has become a sore point
for the technology industry, particularly Google, Twitter and Facebook. On
Monday, Google said it would ban websites that peddle fake news from using its
online advertising service. Facebook also updated the language in its Facebook
Audience Network policy, which already says it will not display ads in sites
that show misleading or illegal content, to include fake news sites.

In some cases, the bots would post embarrassing photos, make references to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation inquiry into Mrs. Clinton's private email
server, or produce false statements, for instance, that Mrs. Clinton was about
to go to jail or was already in jail.

''The use of automated accounts was deliberate and strategic throughout the
election,'' the researchers wrote in the report, published by the Project on
Algorithms, Computational Propaganda and Digital Politics at Oxford.

Because the chatbots were almost entirely anonymous and were frequently bought
in secret from companies or individual programmers, it was not possible to
directly link the activity to either campaign, except for a handful of ''joke''
bots created by Mrs. Clinton's campaign, they noted.

However, there was evidence that the mystery chatbots were part of an organized
effort.

''There does seem to be strategy behind the bots,'' Dr. Howard said. ''By the
third debate, Trump bots were launching into their activity early and we noticed
that automated accounts were actually colonizing Clinton hashtags.''

A hashtag is used to indicate a Twitter post's topic. By adopting hashtags
relating to Mrs. Clinton, the opposition bots were most likely able to wiggle
their way into an online conversation among Clinton supporters.

After the election, the bot traffic declined rapidly, with the exception of some
pro-Trump programs that gloated, ''We won and you lost,'' Dr. Howard said.

Trump campaign officials did not respond to requests for comment. Twitter
executives argued that more people would not follow the programs and so they
would be picked up only by those who looked for particular hashtags.

''Anyone who claims that automated spam accounts that tweeted about the U.S.
election had an effect on voters' opinions or influenced the national Twitter
conversation clearly underestimates voters and fails to understand how Twitter
works,'' said Nick Pacilio, a Twitter spokesman.

The researchers based their study on a collection of about 19.4 million Twitter
posts gathered in the first nine days of November. They selected tweets based on
hashtags identifying certain subjects and identified automated posting by
finding accounts that post at least 50 times a day.

''For example, the top 20 accounts, which were mostly bots and highly automated
accounts, averaged over 1,300 tweets a day and they generated more than 234,000
tweets,'' the researchers noted. ''The top 100 accounts, which still used high
levels of automation, generated around 450,000 tweets at an average rate of 500
tweets per day.''

The Oxford researchers had previously reported that political chatbots had
played a role in shaping the political landscape that led to Britain's
''Brexit'' vote.

The researchers have coined the term ''computational propaganda'' to describe
the explosion of deceptive social media campaigns on services like Facebook and
Twitter.

In a previous research paper, Dr. Howard and Bence Kollanyi, a researcher at
Corvinus University of Budapest, described how political chatbots had a ''small
but strategic role'' in shaping the online conversation during the run-up to the
Brexit referendum.

The bot managers seem to repurpose the programs as well. During the British
campaign, they discovered that a family of bots that had been tweeting around
Israeli-Palestinian issues for three or four years had suddenly become
pro-Brexit. After the vote, the bots returned to their original issue.

In the case of the American election, the researchers noted that ''highly
automated accounts -- the accounts that tweeted 450 or more times with a related
hashtag and user mention during the data collection period -- generated close to
18 percent of all Twitter traffic about the presidential election.''

They also noted that bots tend to circulate negative news much more effectively
than positive reports.

One of the consequences of the intense social media campaigns will be a rise in
what social scientists call ''selective affinity.''

''Clinton supporters will cut the Trump supporters out of their network, and
Trump supporters will do the same,'' Dr. Howard said. ''The polarization of the
election is going to make this stuff worse as we self-groom our news networks.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/18/technology/automated-pro-trump-bots-overwhelme
d-pro-clinton-messages-researchers-say.html

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             222 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Daily Report: Facebook Does Some Explaining on Metrics

BYLINE: By JIM KERSTETTER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg.

LENGTH: 244 words


Facebook had a message for advertisers on Wednesday: Whoops.

The company, the world's biggest social network, acknowledged in a lengthy blog
post that it was moving to restore confidence among advertisers in its methods
for explaining how long users see videos, news articles, ads and corporate
messages, Steve Lohr and Sapna Maheshwari write.

A little more than a month ago, Facebook apologized for overstating how long, on
average, users spent watching videos.

But don't worry: Facebook now has a blog called MetricsFYI that explains these
things in detail and that will explain and analyze how it comes to its metrics.
The blog is one of a number of changes the company is making to restore
confidence among the advertisers that pay the bills.

It's been an odd week for Facebook. For the last few years, it has seemed as
though the company could do no wrong, with the exception of some serious
missteps in a plan to provide internet access in India.

But with the presidential election over, some are asking hard questions about
the impact of all those fake news stories you saw friends sharing. No, in case
you were wondering, Hillary Clinton did not go to jail. No, leading Hollywood
personalities are not actually lizard people.

Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, has publicly doubted fake stories
had much of an impact on the election. But just in case, his company reminded
people that fake news sites are banned from the Facebook ad network.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/18/technology/daily-report-facebook-does-some-exp
laining-on-metrics.html

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             223 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why I Had to Eat a Bug on CNN

BYLINE: By SAM WANG.

Sam Wang is a professor of neuroscience at Princeton and a founder of the
Princeton Election Consortium.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1012 words


LAST weekend I ate a cricket on national television. Based on my statistical
analysis of presidential polls, I made a bet that if Donald J. Trump won  more
than 240 Electoral College votes, I would chow down. Like millions of voters in
both parties, I was surprised by the outcome. As a consolation, I'd like to
learn what went wrong -- and to figure out how pollsters might do better when
they puzzle over our polarized electorate.

Data-based websites, from Facebook on down, have a responsibility to convey
accurate information. In this regard, I owe an apology to readers of the
Princeton Election Consortium, which I publish. My primary purpose was to show
people where to put their campaigning energies by revealing which races were on
a razor's edge. I advised my readers to focus on close Senate races in states
where the presidential race was also close. But I also reported an extremely
high probability that Hillary Clinton would win, which was published by The New
York Times alongside its own model.

Did we lull voters and the news media into a sense of complacency about the
election? In hindsight, it would have been better to express Mrs. Clinton's
polling margin as equivalent to a 2.2 percentage point lead -- and that the true
margin could be higher or lower by several points. That would have better
conveyed the race's uncertainty.

Poll aggregation is built on the idea that pollsters are more accurate as a
group than they are individually. During the primaries, I used state polls to
argue that Mr. Trump was the strong favorite to win the nomination. However,
general-election polls did less well, and so did I. State polls underestimated
the Republican-versus-Democrat margin by four percentage points, the largest
error in decades. This presidential-level polling error was echoed in the
national House popular vote and Senate polls, which were also both off by a
median of four percentage points. As Nate Silver of FiveThirtyEight has pointed
out, errors are often correlated. A warped ruler is flawed no matter how many
measurements are averaged.

The pattern of polling errors provides a clue to why Mr. Trump's victory came as
a surprise. In states that Mr. Trump won, his actual margins against Mrs.
Clinton were a median of six percentage points better than the last available
polls. In contrast, in states won by Mrs. Clinton, the gap between polls and
outcomes was 0.2 of a percentage point. Mr. Trump's hidden strength in the
states he won suggests that some fraction of Republican voters were struggling
between party loyalty and difficulty with accepting Mr. Trump. In the end, their
loyalty won out.

Leading up to Election Day, Mr. Trump was kept afloat in polls by a sturdy
partisan floor of support of 41 percent to 43 percent. With votes still being
counted, projections indicate that he will end up winning around 46.5 percent of
the final vote. Mrs. Clinton's support ranged from 45 to 48 points and she will
most likely end up with 48.5 percent of the vote. This contradicts my
pre-election assumption that undecided and minor-party voters, unusually
abundant this year, would not break strongly in either direction.

The outcome may have also been swayed by the letter that James Comey, the
director of the F.B.I., sent to Congress on Oct. 28 about Mrs. Clinton's emails,
after which national and state polls swung toward Mr. Trump, perhaps decisively.

I suggest that we retire the concept of the ''undecided'' voter. Based on
cognitive science, so-called undecided voters might be mentally committed to a
choice, but either can't verbalize it or want to keep it to themselves. We
humans are like this in all kinds of domains, from what to have for lunch to
whom to marry.

Indirect approaches like web search data might provide new ways to predict voter
behavior. In one particularly interesting example, during the Republican primary
season a reader of my website who goes by the initial N. used Google Correlate,
a tool that allowed her to find web search terms that showed the same pattern as
state polling data. Using those search terms, N. predicted the outcome in
unpolled states more accurately than demographic models of the Republican
electorate. Social media may also help gauge voter enthusiasm, especially in
midterm elections, when turnout is lower and polls are less accurate.

Unstated preferences can also be revealed by partisan straight-ticket voting,
which has reached record highs. On average, partisan Senate and House
preferences tracked the presidential race percentage point for percentage point.
Such intense party loyalty provides a way to investigate a preference for Mr.
Trump without using the word ''Trump.'' In Wisconsin, the Democrat Russ Feingold
sought to regain his Senate seat from Ron Johnson. Mr. Feingold's lead slipped
from a median of nine percentage points in August to a median of one point in
October -- and in the end, Mr. Johnson won.

This provided a clue that Mr. Trump was strong in Rust Belt states, where white
non-college voters are abundant. As many have noted, if 55,000 Trump supporters
had instead cast votes for Mrs. Clinton in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania,
we would be looking at a narrow Clinton victory. Hampered by inadequate data,
her campaign grasped the danger to her supremacy in these states too late. Mrs.
Clinton did not even visit Wisconsin after the Democratic convention.

As a scientist, I am committed to learning from my mistakes. Despite this year's
failure, data is still our best resource for predicting events, but it is
important to get good data in the first place. This will be on my mind in the
spring, when I am teaching a seminar on the application of statistics to public
affairs. A key topic will be partisan gerrymandering, which lends itself much
better to hard facts like final vote totals, and not prediction. This year's
election will remind me to add a heavy dose of humility to the proceedings.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/opinion/why-i-had-to-eat-a-bug-on-cnn.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             224 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump and the Art World: 'Evita,' Huge Towers, a Snub for Warhol

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY; Michael Cooper, Michael Paulson and Graham Bowley
contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words


For the arts world, the question is essentially the same as the one being asked
everywhere right now, across the political spectrum: ''What will a President
Donald J. Trump mean for me?'' The answer from artists, museums, theaters,
actors, writers, musicians and the movie and television industry is, to a rare
degree in previous presidential elections: ''Your guess is as good as mine.''

Though he has been front-and-center in public life for more than four decades in
the country's cultural capital, Mr. Trump has left a meager trail to suggest
what positions he might take on public arts funding and arts education, along
with issues like censorship and economic policies that would affect creative
industries, not to mention how he and the first lady, Melania Trump, might
decorate the White House.

His authoritarian stance during the campaign -- including threats to ''open up
libel laws'' to allow journalists to be ''sued like you've never got sued
before'' and a tweet calling for an end to ''Saturday Night Live'' because of
its parody of him -- suggest freedom of expression could come under assault in
his administration. But then, his actions during the campaign and long before it
in the real-estate world strongly indicate that if such expression were not
directed toward Mr. Trump personally, he might not spend much time caring about
it.

''I don't see anything apocalyptic with him coming in,'' said Rocco Landesman,
the Broadway impresario and former chairman of the National Endowment for the
Arts, which disburses grants to cultural organizations and projects. ''The Tea
Party has a real grievance with the arts, and when I was at the N.E.A., during
the budgeting process, the Tea Party conservatives would X out the budget, and
we'd have to fight to restore it. But I would not envision that kind of process
with President Trump at all. That doesn't seem to be his agenda.''

Mr. Trump has been vague about his position on government funding for the arts
and humanities and for arts-related education. His hard-line position on
immigration has some arts groups with an international focus worried about visa
issues, which have already become more difficult in recent years. And Mr. Trump
has also proposed reducing tax benefits for charitable giving, which could have
a far more devastating impact on the arts than cuts in public money, which has
been declining for many years in inflation-adjusted dollars.

In response to questions from The Washington Post this year, he wrote about
government arts funding: ''The Congress, as representatives of the people, make
the determination as to what the spending priorities ought to be.'' But he added
that he had the ''great fortune to receive a comprehensive liberal arts
education'' and said that ''a holistic education that includes literature and
the arts'' was ''critical to creating good citizens.'' (Through a spokeswoman,
Hope Hicks, Mr. Trump declined to comment for this article.)

Outside of television, where he made a second career as host and producer of
''The Apprentice'' and ''The Celebrity Apprentice,'' Mr. Trump has not had deep
involvement with the arts. He and his company have donated, by philanthropic
standards, modest amounts to Lincoln Center over the past several years, mostly
gifts under $10,000, but neither he nor his foundation is known as a supporter
of note of any of the city's museums; the Metropolitan Museum of Art said only
that he had appeared at some Costume Institute galas and other benefits. He has
been a regular presence over the years at openings on Broadway, where he has
said he prefers musicals and saw ''Evita'' as many as six times. His love of
theater even led him, in his 20s, to try his hand at producing, though without
much success. (The play, ''Paris Is Out!,'' received mostly bad reviews and
closed after 112 performances.)

Mr. Trump's primary connection to the creative world has been through
architecture, though with the exception of Philip Johnson -- whom he hired along
with Costas Kondylis to reimagine the old Gulf and Western Building at 1 Central
Park West as Trump International Hotel and Tower -- he has hired mostly
low-profile architects and has drawn criticism for buildings that are either
bland or gaudy. The critic Herbert Muschamp, in The New York Times, wrote in
2002 that the over-the-top buildings were at the very least not boring. He
called Mr. Trump ''the only beauty freak at large in New York City real estate
development'' and added: ''Aggression and desire, violence and sex: Put them
together, and they add up to Trump World Tower, undeniably the most primal
building New York has seen in quite a while.'' That tower, across from the
United Nations, also had a fan in Terence Riley, then the chief curator of
architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art, who called it his favorite
new building.

Art dealers said they had never seen Mr. Trump at an auction and had no sense of
his taste in art or the degree to which he collects. A 1997 profile in The New
Yorker by Mark Singer related an anecdote about Mr. Trump's effort to have a
statue of Columbus slightly taller than the Statue of Liberty erected near the
Riverside South development on the Upper West Side. (The statue never came to
the city.) ''It's got forty million dollars' worth of bronze in it,'' Mr. Trump
said of the work, by a critically derided Georgian-born Russian sculptor, Zurab
Tsereteli, whom Mr. Trump called ''major and legit.''

Mr. Trump's two brief public turns that concerned works of art were not
promising for art lovers. In 1980, he began demolition of the old Bonwit Teller
department store to build Trump Tower, and though he had promised important Art
Deco limestone bas-reliefs from the building to the Metropolitan Museum of Art,
workers destroyed the reliefs. Mr. Trump, pretending to be a Trump spokesman
named ''John Baron,'' later claimed in an interview with The New York Times that
the reliefs were ''without artistic merit.''

In 1999, after Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani threatened to cut off city funding to
the Brooklyn Museum because of an exhibition featuring a painting by the British
artist Chris Ofili that depicted a Virgin Mary figure and incorporated collaged
pornographic elements and clumps of dried elephant dung, Mr. Trump joined in the
criticism. Then exploring a run for president as a candidate of the Reform
Party, Mr. Trump praised Mr. Giuliani's attempt to block public funding for the
museum. He called Mr. Ofili's work and that of some other artists ''absolutely
gross, degenerate stuff,'' and vowed as president to ensure that federal funds
would never support such art.

Some beneficiaries of government support worry about losing the relatively small
amount of help they get. ''We're all in a place right now of not knowing -- I
encounter that everywhere I turn, and that's always a scary place,'' said Eric
Ting, artistic director of the California Shakespeare Theater, known as Cal
Shakes, in Orinda, Calif. Stephen Kidd, executive director of the National
Humanities Alliance, a nonprofit coalition that advocates for humanities
education and other programs, said his constituents held out hope that
government support for cultural endeavors would continue in a Trump
administration. Despite conservatives' desire to shrink the government, the
Republican-controlled Congress agreed last year to President Obama's request for
the first budget increase for the National Endowment for the Humanities since
2010.

''It was fairly modest,'' Mr. Kidd said, ''but given the fiscal climate on the
Hill it was a big show of support.''

(In 2014, when he was Budget Committee chairman, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan
proposed ending federal funding for the National Endowment for the Arts and the
National Endowment for the Humanities, saying in budget documents that ''the
activities and content funded by these agencies go beyond the core mission of
the federal government.'')

While Mr. Trump's election has been widely condemned by much of the artistic
world, parts of the commercial culture industry are cautiously optimistic that
the next four years might not be so bad -- though mostly because fear of
economic volatility might cause shifts in wealth that will be good for places
like art galleries, which have already benefited immensely from the world's
concentration of wealth.

Last week in the Art Market Monitor, on a page emblazoned with an image of an
oil portrait of Mr. Trump in white golfing attire, Marion Maneker, the site's
publisher, wrote that ''global instability and doubt will tend to accelerate the
process of money going into alternative stores of value. In plain English,
there's good reason to believe buyers will continue to shift cash into art and
jewels instead of financial instruments like Treasury bonds or, even,
equities.''

He added: ''The wealthiest sector of the global economy will continue to
accumulate more cash than it can consume or productively invest. That money will
seek a safe haven.''

Mr. Trump himself, however, has often counseled that art is a dubious haven
compared with real estate, and he has proved his convictions. In 1981, Andy
Warhol created a series of eight black, gray and silver silk screens of an image
of Trump Tower, after Mr. Trump and his wife at the time, Ivana, expressed
interest in having Warhol's work in the building. But after Warhol made the
pieces, the Trumps lost interest and never bought the canvases, which would most
likely be worth many millions today, particularly in light of Mr. Trump's
ascension to the highest office in the land.

In his diary, Warhol wrote of the ensemble: ''Mr. Trump was very upset that it
wasn't color-coordinated.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/arts/design/trump-and-the-arts-evita-huge-towe
rs-and-a-snub-for-warhol.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Andy Warhol's 1981 take on Trump Tower. Warhol wrote that
Mr. Trump didn't buy his works because they weren't ''color-coordinated.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY COLLECTION OF THE ANDY WARHOL MUSEUM, PITTSBURGH/2016 THE ANDY
WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR THE VISUAL ARTS, INC./ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW
YORK) (C1)
Donald and Melania Trump's Manhattan penthouse, on the 66th floor of Trump
Tower. Mr. Trump isn't known to frequent art auctions, but not much is known
about his cultural tastes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HORINE)
 The Trumps at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute gala in 2012.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN AGOSTINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (C5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             225 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump Selects Loyalists on Right Flank to Fill National Security Posts

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS; Mark Mazzetti, Michael S. Schmidt and Charlie
Savage contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words


WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald J. Trump moved quickly on Friday to begin
filling national security posts at the top echelons of his administration,
selecting a group of hawks and campaign loyalists who reflect the hard-line
views that defined his run for president.

Mr. Trump said he would nominate as attorney general Senator Jeff Sessions of
Alabama, who has been a fierce supporter of a crackdown on undocumented
immigrants. The president-elect also moved to install Michael T. Flynn, a
retired lieutenant general who has said that Islamist militancy poses a global
existential threat, as his national security adviser. And as director of the
C.I.A., Mr. Trump selected Representative Mike Pompeo of Kansas, who harshly
criticized Hillary Clinton during the House investigation of the 2012 attack on
the United States diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya.

All three are regarded, in some ways, as outliers from conventional Republican
thinking, shunned at times for strident statements, controversial positions or
highly partisan moves.

The flurry of announcements indicated that Mr. Trump was gaining control over a
transition operation that had been entangled in infighting during its early
stages. The results were the first seeds of an administration-in-waiting that
will break starkly with that of President Obama.

Transition officials said Mr. Trump would meet over the weekend with a broad
array of potential cabinet members and other advisers as a signal that he wanted
to build a diverse team, without regard to political affiliation or support for
his presidential bid. Among them are Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee
and one of his party's harshest critics of the president-elect's campaign, who
is a contender for secretary of state, and Michelle A. Rhee, a Democrat who
pursued sweeping reforms during her controversy-filled tenure as the District of
Columbia's chancellor of schools.

Mr. Trump also planned to meet on Saturday with James N. Mattis, a retired
Marine Corps general who headed United States Central Command and is being
considered for secretary of defense.

But there was no evidence in Friday's selections that Mr. Trump, who has hinted
that he might pursue a more centrist agenda once he sits in the Oval Office, is
inclined to moderate his approach on key questions of national security and
civil rights.

In a statement on Friday, Mr. Trump called Mr. Sessions a ''world-class legal
mind,'' and added that Mr. Pompeo would be ''a brilliant and unrelenting leader
for our intelligence community.''

Of General Flynn, he said: ''I am pleased that Lieutenant General Michael Flynn
will be by my side as we work to defeat radical Islamic terrorism, navigate
geopolitical challenges and keep Americans safe at home and abroad.''

Both Mr. Sessions and General Flynn were early and fervent supporters of Mr.
Trump's presidential campaign, even as many establishment Republicans were
criticizing Mr. Trump for inflammatory statements and dismissing his chances of
winning the nomination. Mr. Pompeo initially supported Senator Marco Rubio of
Florida in the Republican primary, but switched after it became clear Mr. Trump
would be the nominee. Mr. Pompeo is also close to Vice President-elect Mike
Pence, who is heading the transition effort.

In 1986, Mr. Sessions -- who, if confirmed, would be charged with safeguarding
civil rights in the United States -- was blocked from becoming a federal judge
by the Senate's Republican-controlled Judiciary Committee because of previous
racially charged comments and actions.

In testimony before the committee, former colleagues said that Mr. Sessions had
referred to the N.A.A.C.P., the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and
other civil rights groups as ''un-American'' and ''Communist-inspired.'' An
African-American federal prosecutor, Thomas H. Figures, said at the time that
Mr. Sessions had referred to him as ''boy,'' and testified that Mr. Sessions had
said the Ku Klux Klan was fine ''until I found out they smoked pot,'' a remark
Mr. Sessions later dismissed as a joke.

Aides to Mr. Trump dismissed the past statements, and described Mr. Sessions as
a champion of civil rights, citing as evidence a number of desegregation
lawsuits he filed while serving as a United States attorney in Alabama, his
votes to extend the Voting Rights Act and to confirm Eric H. Holder Jr. as the
first African-American attorney general, and his efforts to award the
Congressional Gold Medal to Rosa Parks.

''Senator Sessions is someone who's universally respected across party lines in
the United States Senate,'' said Jason Miller, a spokesman for Mr. Trump's
transition team, calling him ''very well qualified for this position.''

Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said on Twitter that Mr. Sessions was
''well liked and well regarded, even by those who don't always agree with him.''
He added, ''I look forward to supporting his nomination.''

Other Republican senators and conservative groups likewise rallied behind Mr.
Sessions, while Democrats have pledged to keep an open mind on confirming him.
But, in a reflection of the tough questions he is likely to face in his
confirmation hearing, civil rights groups and their champions in Congress
condemned the choice.

''Given some of his past statements and his staunch opposition to immigration
reform,'' said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the new minority leader, ''I
am very concerned about what he would do with the Civil Rights Division at the
Department of Justice, and want to hear what he has to say.''

Mr. Trump's selection of General Flynn, which does not require Senate
confirmation, was similarly cheered by conservative organizations and met with
alarm by Democrats. He has called Islam a political ideology that has
''metastasized'' into a ''malignant cancer.'' After building a reputation as a
respected military officer, he was fired by President Obama after two years as
the chief of the Defense Intelligence Agency. General Flynn has since been a
vociferous critic of a Washington elite he contends has refused to name radical
Islam as the enemy, and is therefore doomed to fall short in defeating it.

''His statements about Muslims are profoundly un-American as well as damaging to
the fight against terrorism and national security,'' said Senator Ron Wyden,
Democrat of Oregon and a member of the Intelligence Committee. ''He has
indicated an openness to torture and the destruction of an entire city, both of
which are clearly illegal, not to mention immoral and destructive to America's
global leadership.''

Mr. Wyden said that the president-elect, who last week chose Stephen K. Bannon,
who has promoted hard-right nationalism as the chairman of Breitbart News,
appeared to be building ''a White House leadership that embodies the most
divisive rhetoric of his campaign.''

Mr. Pompeo, a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point and
Harvard Law School, was elected to Congress in 2010 with substantial financial
backing from a political action committee funded by Koch Industries, based in
Wichita, Kan. He has criticized Mr. Obama's decisions to shut down the C.I.A.'s
''black site'' prisons and to require all interrogators to strictly adhere to
anti-torture laws. In 2014, he accused Mr. Obama of refusing ''to take the war
on radical Islamic terrorism seriously.''

After the House Select Committee on Benghazi found no new evidence of wrongdoing
by the Obama administration or Mrs. Clinton, who was the secretary of state at
the time of the attack, Mr. Pompeo and another Republican on the committee,
Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, said they were convinced there had been a
cover-up, and they filed a 48-page addendum that included far harsher criticism
of the administration and of Mrs. Clinton. Other Republicans, including the
committee's chairman, declined to add their names to the document.

Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California, called Mr. Pompeo ''very
bright and hard-working.''

''While we have had our share of strong differences -- principally on the
politicization of the tragedy in Benghazi -- I know that he is someone who is
willing to listen and engage, both key qualities in a C.I.A. director,'' Mr.
Schiff said.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/us/politics/donald-trump-administration.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Donald J. Trump's motorcade arrived on Friday
evening at the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             226 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fixation on Fake News Obscures a Waning Trust in Real Reporting

BYLINE: By JOHN HERRMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words


Something is deeply wrong when the pope's voice, reputation and influence can be
borrowed by a source that describes itself as ''a fantasy news site'' to claim
that he has endorsed a presidential candidate, and then be amplified,
unchallenged, through a million individual shares.

The attention paid to fake news since the election has focused largely on
fabrications and outright lies, because they are indefensible, easy to identify
and extraordinarily viral. Fake news is created by the kinds of people who, when
asked, might call their work satire, or admit that they're in it for the money
or for the thrill of deception. Theirs is a behavior that can and should be
shunned, and that Facebook is equipped, and maybe willing, to deal with.

For many people, and especially opponents of President-elect Donald J. Trump,
the attention paid to fake news and its role in the election has provided a
small relief, the discovery of the error that explains everything. But as the
attention has spread widely -- even President Obama talked passionately about it
on Thursday -- it may lead to an unwanted outcome for those who see it not just
as an explanation, but also as a way to correct the course. It misunderstands a
new media world in which every story, and source, is at risk of being
discredited, not by argument but by sheer force.

False news stories posted on fly-by-night websites were prevalent in this
election. So, too, were widely shared political videos -- some styled as
newscasts -- containing outright falsehoods, newslike image memes posted by
individuals and shared by millions, and endlessly shared quotes and video clips
of the candidates themselves repeating falsehoods.

During the months I spent talking to partisan Facebook page operators for a
magazine article this year, it became clear that while the ecosystem contained
easily identifiable and intentional fabrication, it contained much, much more of
something else.

I recall a conversation with a fact checker about how to describe a story,
posted on a pro-Trump website and promoted on a pro-Trump Facebook page -- and,
incidentally, copied from another pro-Trump site by overseas contractors. It
tried to cast suspicion on Khizr Khan, the father of a slain American soldier,
who had spoken out against Donald J. Trump.

The overarching claims of the story were disingenuous and horrifying; the facts
it included had been removed from all useful context and placed in a new,
sinister one; its insinuating mention of ''Muslim martyrs,'' in proximity to
mentions of Mr. Khan's son, and its misleading and strategic mention of Shariah
law, amounted to a repulsive smear. It was a story that appealed to bigoted
ideas and that would clearly appeal to those who held them.

This was a story the likes of which was an enormous force in this election,
clearly designed to function well within Facebook's economy of sharing. And it
probably would not run afoul of the narrow definition of ''fake news.''

Stories like that one get to the heart of the rhetorical and strategic risk of
holding up ''fake news'' as a broad media offensive position, especially after
an election cycle characterized by the euphoric inversion of rhetoric by some of
Mr. Trump's supporters, and by the candidate himself. As the campaign
progressed, criticism of Mr. Trump was instantly projected back at his opponent,
or at the critics themselves. ''No puppet. No puppet. You're the puppet.''

This tactic was used on the language of social justice, which was appropriated
by opponents and redeployed nihilistically, in an open effort to sap its power
while simultaneously taking advantage of what power it retained. Anti-racists
were cast as the real racists. Progressives were cast as secretly regressive on
their own terms. This was not a new tactic, but it was newly effective. It
didn't matter that its targets knew that it was a bad-faith maneuver, a clear
bid for power rather than an attempt to engage or reason. The referees called
foul, but nobody could hear them over the roar of the crowds. Or maybe they
could, but realized that nobody could make them listen.

''Fake news'' as shorthand will almost surely be returned upon the media
tenfold. The fake news narrative, as widely understood and deployed, has already
begun to encompass not just falsified, fabricated stories, but a wider swath of
traditional media on Facebook and elsewhere. Fox News? Fake news. Mr. Trump's
misleading claims about Ford keeping jobs in America? Fake news. The entirety of
hyperpartisan Facebook? Fake news. This wide formulation of ''fake news'' will
be applied back to the traditional news media, which does not yet understand how
threatened its ability is to declare things true, even when they are.

Facebook may try to address the narrow version of the problem, the clearly
fabricated posts. Facebook has plenty of tools at its disposal and has already
promised to use one, to bar sites that have been flagged as promoting falsified
content from using its advertising platform. But the worst identified defenders
make their money outside Facebook anyway.

Another narrow response from Facebook could be to assert editorial control over
external forces. Facebook tried this, to a very limited extent, with Trending
Topics. Members of the company's editorial staff wrote descriptions of trending
news stories, accompanied by links they deemed credible. This initiative
collapsed in a frenzy of bias accusations and political fear. But it is easy to
imagine a system in which a story, upon reaching some high threshold of shares,
or a source, upon reaching some cumulative audience, could be audited and
declared unreliable. This could resemble Facebook's short-lived experiment to
tag satire articles as such.

A number of narrow measures could stop a fake story about the pope, for example.
But where would that leave the rest of the media? Answered and rebutted, and
barely better positioned against everything else that remained. It would be a
still-dominant news environment in which almost everything there before remained
intact, the main difference being that it would have all been declared,
implicitly, not fake.

Facebook is a place where people construct and project identities to friends,
family and peers. It is a marketplace in which news is valuable mainly to the
extent that it serves those identities. It is a system built on ranking and
vetting and voting, and yet one where negative inputs are scarcely possible, and
where conflict is resolved with isolation. (Not that provisions for open
conflict on a platform present any easy alternatives: For Twitter, it has been a
source of constant crisis.)

Fake news operations are closely aligned with the experienced incentives of the
Facebook economy -- more closely, perhaps, than most of the organizations that
are identifying them. Their removal will be an improvement. The outrage at their
mere existence, and at their promotion on a platform with the stated goal of
connecting the world, will have been justified.

But the outrage is at risk of being misdirected, and will be followed by the
realization that the colloquial ''fake news'' -- the newslike media, amateur and
professional, for which truth is defined first in personal and political terms,
and which must only meet the bar of not being obviously, inarguably,
demonstrably false -- will continue growing apace, gaining authority by sheer
force, not despite Facebook but because of it. The company that created the
system that resulted in hoax news stories should try to eliminate them, and with
any luck it will. But the system stands to remain intact.

Media companies have spent years looking to Facebook, waiting for the company to
present a solution to their mounting business concerns despite, or perhaps
because of, its being credited with causing those concerns. Some have come to
the realization that this was mistaken, even absurd. Those who expect the
operator of the dominant media ecosystem of our time, in response to getting
caught promoting lies, to suddenly return authority to the companies it has
superseded are in for a similar surprise.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/business/media/exposing-fake-news-eroding-trus
t-in-real-reporting.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Khizr Khan, the father of a U.S. soldier killed in Iraq and a
critic of Donald J. Trump, was smeared in articles on pro-Trump sites.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN TAGGART/BLOOMBERG) (B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             227 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Donald Trump's Disturbing Picks: Michael Flynn, Too Hotheaded for a Sensitive
Position

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 560 words


Of all the disturbing scenes in the presidential campaign, the Republican
Convention speech by retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn stood out. During a fiery
address in which he lamented the decline of American exceptionalism and
lambasted the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, General  Flynn joined the
crowd in chants of ''lock her up!'' Smiling slyly, he shouted: ''Yeah, that's
right, lock her up!''

It was grotesque, but not entirely surprising for a military intelligence
veteran who has earned a reputation for hotheadedness and poor judgment.
Americans of all political backgrounds should be alarmed that General Flynn will
be President-elect Donald Trump's national security adviser. It's likely, given
his record, that he will encourage Mr. Trump's worst impulses, fuel suspicions
of Muslims and bring to the job conflicts of interest from his international
consulting work.

The role of national security adviser has grown in power and influence in recent
years, with the Bush and Obama administrations vesting the office with great
authority on matters including military operations, nuclear proliferation,
diplomacy, foreign aid and responses to global pandemics. The job demands a
knack for consensus building, the ability to make sense of vast amounts of
information and the rigor to present the president with well-thought-out options
to respond to complex challenges.

General Flynn played pivotal roles in military campaigns in Iraq and
Afghanistan. While his skills served him well in those environments, when he was
tapped to lead the Defense Intelligence Agency, his shortcomings as a manager
and strategic thinker soon became glaring. His grasp on the truth was so flimsy
at times that colleagues began mockingly referring to ''Flynn facts.''

General Flynn did not leave quietly after being fired by the Obama
administration in 2014. He has since created a self-serving narrative,
maintaining that he was dismissed for raising alarms about the threat posed by
Islamist extremist groups, which he contends the Obama administration
''coddles.''

He has been extraordinarily incendiary in his characterizations of Islam. In
February, he posted  a link to a video on Twitter warning about the threat of
Islam: ''Fear of Muslims is RATIONAL.'' In August, he told The Washington Post
that he agreed with some of Mr. Trump's views about Muslims; he called Islam an
ideology and compared it to a cancer that has metastasized.

General Flynn's fearmongering ''only plays into Al Qaeda's narrative that there
is a clash of civilizations,'' Representative Adam Schiff, the ranking member of
the House Intelligence Committee, said, ''What he has expressed is dangerous and
harmful to us.''

In recent months, even while he advised Mr. Trump, General Flynn took on
questionable consulting work, including speaking at a forum hosted by the state
broadcaster Russia Today, which is infamous for its propaganda and serves as a
mouthpiece for President Vladimir Putin. He also runs a consulting firm that has
lobbied  for a company  with connections to Turkey's authoritarian president.
Just last week, he wrote an article urging the extradition of a Turkish cleric
whom the Turkish government said was the mastermind of the attempted coup in
July.

A core theme of Mr. Trump's campaign was making America safer. With this
appointment, he is doing the opposite.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/opinion/michael-flynn-an-alarming-pick-for-nat
ional-security-adviser.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HANNA BARCZYK)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             228 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Muslim Americans Speak of Escalating Worry

BYLINE: By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA and LAURIE GOODSTEIN; Sharon Otterman and Fernanda
Santos contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1186 words


Muslim Americans, already alarmed by the election of Donald J. Trump, said
Friday that Mr. Trump's choices for crucial posts heightened their fears of
discrimination, violence, deportation and even detention.

Many said they worried that a more hostile America could prompt more Muslims to
join forces with terrorists.

During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said ''Islam hates us,'' endorsed
the idea of a government registry of Muslims and proposed suspending immigration
by Muslims or people from some Muslim-majority countries. In interviews on
Friday, many Muslims said that they were not sure before the election how
seriously to take such talk, hoping that it was more political hyperbole than
policy, but that the personnel moves of the last few days had confirmed their
worst fears.

At the Dream Cafe, a hookah bar in the Astoria neighborhood of Queens, Sara
Khan, 17, whose parents are from Pakistan, expressed particular concern about
her family's ability to remain in the United States. ''What are we going to do
if he tries to kick us out?'' she asked of Mr. Trump.

''People from all over the world come here to find freedom,'' she said, but now
she wonders what that freedom means if ''one man can take it away.''

Mr. Trump has offered the post of national security adviser to Michael T. Flynn,
a retired Army general who has written that ''fear of Muslims is rational,'' has
said that ''Islam is a political ideology'' and is ''like a malignant cancer.''
For director of central intelligence, Mr. Trump has tapped Representative Mike
Pompeo of Kansas, who has said that ''most Islamic leaders across America'' were
complicit in terrorist attacks for not speaking out more forcefully.

He has asked Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, who has endorsed a Muslim
immigration ban, to be attorney general, and has named Stephen K. Bannon, whom
critics have denounced as a white nationalist, as senior White House strategist.
And some Trump supporters have cited the internment of Japanese-Americans during
World War II as a possible precedent.

''I did not take Trump's statements seriously enough, and I did not take these
white nationalists as seriously as I should have,'' said Zareena Grewal, an
associate professor of American studies and religious studies at Yale. ''That
these people have moved from the fringe of American politics to the very center
should frighten everybody.''

Hanan Hassan, a native of Iraq who works at a refugee center in Phoenix, mostly
with people from Syria, said her mood and that of her clients had changed
drastically.

''Some of us are scared of being sent back,'' she said. ''Our children are
having issues at school.''

Ms. Hassan, 37, who said her parents and her brother were killed by a car bomb
in Baghdad, said, ''We left home because it was not safe there,'' but now the
United States feels unsafe.

Some voiced worries about a Muslim registry, and the prospect of being tracked
and investigated by the government, noting that a registry for noncitizens from
some Arab countries, in effect from 2002 to 2011, resulted in few leads on
terrorism, but many deportations. Others shrugged off the prospect, saying that
they assumed they were under surveillance already.

And people were still unsure how seriously to take the even more troubling idea
-- not raised by anyone with a formal role on the Trump team -- of internment.

''I don't put it past them,'' said Nihad Awad, executive director of the Council
of American Islamic Relations. ''Personnel is policy, and Flynn considers us as
the enemy, so what kind of policies is he going to push forward? The Muslim
community will be at his mercy.''

Linda Sarsour, executive director of the Arab American Association of New York,
said: ''I believe in my heart that our fellow Americans would not let that
happen. I'm not saying that it definitely won't happen. The fact that we're even
having this conversation is really spreading a lot of fear in the community.''

Muslim leaders said their strategy would be to mount legal challenges and to
strengthen alliances with other religious and ethnic groups.

Muslim, Jewish and Christian clergy members and lay leaders gathered in front of
mosque in Washington on Friday in a demonstration of mutual support. Mobilized
by an interfaith group called ''Shoulder to Shoulder,'' they asked
President-elect Trump to keep his election-night promise that he will serve as
the president of all Americans.

''American Muslims follow the U.S. Constitution,'' said Rizwan Jaka, chairman of
the board of the ADAMS Center, one of the nation's largest mosques, in Northern
Virginia. ''We call upon this incoming administration to also follow it.''

They refrained from criticizing Mr. Trump or his selections, and instead called
on them to recognize that American Muslims serve the United States as doctors,
teachers and law enforcement officers. They said that, contrary to claims by Mr.
Pompeo and others, American Muslims routinely denounce terrorist attacks
perpetrated by Islamic extremists, and have been credited by the Department of
Homeland Security with preventing attacks by reporting suspects to the
authorities.

Usama Shami, president of the Islamic Community Center in Phoenix, said he had
received an outpouring of support from non-Muslims, including some who came in
person to join in Friday Prayers, and others who offered to register as Muslims
if a registry is created.

''All of that gives us comfort,'' Mr. Shami said. ''The problem is, in this day
and age -- this is 2016, almost 2017 -- we're going backward. Make America great
again? How? Having an internment camp for Muslims as they had for Japanese?
Appointing Islamophobes for key positions?''

Still, some Muslims held out hope that the Trump team may be more bluster than
real threat.

''He is a businessman, and businessmen have plenty of masks they wear
everyday,'' said Heshem Hassane, 42, an Egyptian immigrant who owns an ironworks
in New York. He expressed doubt about whether the new administration would
follow through on some plans, but added, ''there's no person who's not concerned
unless he's isolated about what's going on.''

For many Muslims, their fears are less about Trump administration policies than
about a hostile atmosphere that they say could promote violence against them.
The FBI reported this week that anti-Muslim hate crimes rose 67 percent in 2015,
and Muslim groups say 2016 is on track to be worse.

''Every day people are calling from all over the country to tell me about
incidents and attacks, and I have to tell people, I'm not a Trump emergency
responder,'' Dr. Grewal said. ''People are worried about their actual, physical
safety, about attacks. People are asking, 'Do we buy a gun? Do we get a dog?' ''

For many Muslims, the worst prospect of all is that members of their community,
alienated by the political atmosphere and government action, could heed calls by
Islamic extremists to carry out terrorist attacks.

''ISIS will have more disenfranchised people, people pushed to the margins, to
appeal to,'' Mr. Awad said. ''This is music to their ears.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/us/muslim-americans-speak-of-escalating-worrie
s.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sara Khan, 17, a New Yorker whose parents immigrated to the
United States from Pakistan, said of President-elect Donald J. Trump, ''What are
we going to do if he tries to kick us out?'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             229 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor's Political Standing Improves After Trump Win, but Perils Remain

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1286 words


In Mayor Bill de Blasio's view, the election of Donald J. Trump was an almost
apocalyptic upset: worrisome for immigrants, demoralizing for advocates of the
poor and disastrous for just about all of New York -- but not necessarily so for
Mr. de Blasio.

As he seeks re-election in 2017, the mayor is trying to emerge from the chaos of
the postelection period as the strongest messenger of Democratic Party
resistance, a crowded field of left-of-center leaders that includes Senators
Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Bernie Sanders of Vermont as well as Gov.
Andrew M. Cuomo, the mayor's chief Democratic rival in New York.

Unshackled from the need to defend Clintonian triangulation, freed to give full
voice to his liberal views and presented with a ready-made antagonist rejected
by the city's voters, Mr. de Blasio has shown new energy in the days since his
preferred candidate, Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee, was defeated by
President-elect Trump, a Republican.

At union halls, in front of Trump Tower and in City Hall, Mr. de Blasio has
forcefully presented himself as a defender of the city's working people and
minorities, who he has said are ''fearful'' of a Trump presidency. He is
expected to give what aides described as a major speech on Monday about the
election's impact on the city.

Union endorsements have poured in -- three so far in the past week -- and other
labor groups are considering climbing aboard early as well. No serious
re-election challenger has emerged against Mr. de Blasio, whose approval rating,
in a poll conducted after the presidential election, has already increased.

''Our focus should not be on trying to unseat Mayor de Blasio,'' the city's
public advocate, Letitia James, said in an interview this week. ''Now is not the
time for infighting. Now is the time for maximizing our strength.''

A recent Quinnipiac University poll, released after Mr. Trump's election, showed
some momentum for Mr. de Blasio: His support rose among blacks and Hispanics and
showed a slight uptick among whites. But the poll also showed the mayor's
vulnerability: A plurality of voters told pollsters that he did not deserve a
second term, and about two-thirds of white voters still disapproved of his
handling of the job.

Political analysts cautioned that the benefits Mr. Trump presents in the
short-term for the mayor may prove illusory, as the shock of his election wears
off and the take-out-the-garbage details of a municipal election return to the
fore.

Some drew parallels between the defeat of Mrs. Clinton, a press-shy centrist who
ran on her record and expected a victory, and Mr. de Blasio's re-election
effort. Mr. de Blasio is counting on a base of support from black and Latino
voters to ward off a large number of skeptical white voters in the Democratic
primary, where the city's mayoral elections are often won and lost.

''I won't go so far as to say he's assumptive, but if he's not careful, people
will believe that,'' said Bill Samuels, a backer of Mr. de Blasio and the
founder of EffectiveNY, a nonprofit devoted to government reform in the state.
''There's a similarity to Clinton, but I think he's too smart to drift in that
way. If not, he's made a mistake.''

Even among Mr. de Blasio's supporters, there has been discontent at the pace of
change around his signature issues like police reform and affordable housing.

While many New Yorkers, particularly white residents of Manhattan, have counted
on a challenge to Mr. de Blasio from a centrist Democrat -- that is, from the
right -- he might find himself more vulnerable to a charismatic candidate on the
left. Mr. de Blasio has, in some cases, struggled to combat well-organized
political efforts, particularly from the ride-hailing company Uber, which
presented him as a powerful mayor protecting a favored industry against working
New Yorkers.

''We're still waiting to see whether a Goldman Sachs housing agenda continues at
City Hall,'' said Jonathan Weisman of the advocacy group New York Communities
for Change, referring to the city's deputy mayor for housing and economic
development, Alicia Glen, who is a former executive at the financial company.
''Or whether this populist uprising of Trump and others is going to spur
something different.''

Mr. Weisman criticized the mayor for counting as affordable a large number of
units built during his administration that are too expensive for many of the
city's poorest. ''The policies of moderation are failing us,'' he said. ''I
think there's space for the mayor to move aggressively to the left. If he
doesn't, there's space on the left for someone to jump in.''

For his part, Mr. de Blasio, has rejuvenated the oppositional outsider rhetoric
of his first campaign and has offered kind words for Mr. Sanders at several
points. (But he was careful to say at a news conference on Friday that he was
proud of supporting Mrs. Clinton.)

''I've always been someone who was an insurgent,'' Mr. de Blasio said as he
accepted an endorsement from 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union
on Thursday. ''I've been an underdog in every election I've been in.''

There are now two groups of potential candidates: Republicans who have declared
their candidacy, and Democratic leaders who are weighing whether to mount a
challenge to an incumbent mayor of their own party.

In the first group are names unfamiliar to many New Yorkers: Paul Massey, a
millionaire real estate developer; Michael Faulkner, a Harlem minister and
former New York Jet who has been running since last year; Bo Dietl, a bombastic
former Fox News contributor and retired city detective who often refers to Mr.
de Blasio as ''Big Bird.'' (Mr. Dietl, a lifelong Republican, said he would
change his party to Democrat to challenge the mayor in a primary, though records
from last month show he had yet to do so.)

On the other side are figures more familiar to followers of local politics: the
city's comptroller, Scott M. Stringer; Representative Hakeem Jeffries, whose
district includes parts of Brooklyn and Queens; and the Bronx borough president,
Ruben Diaz Jr. All have been privately mulling the possibility of running with
their aides and confidants; none have taken steps to formally declare a run.

''Trump gives de Blasio something positive to talk about in the sense of being
an oppositional force,'' said Bradley Tusk, a former adviser to Michael R.
Bloomberg who has been seeking challengers to the mayor. ''But at the end of the
day, re-elections, especially municipal elections, are referendums on the
incumbent. Do we think he was a good mayor, or do we not think he was a good
mayor?''

Mr. Tusk and representatives of the mayor predictably disagree on the answer to
that question.

''People are looking for a forceful voice who is going to stand up and be strong
in the face of so much uncertainty and concern,'' said Phil Walzak, a top
adviser to Mr. de Blasio's campaign. ''And that's a space that the mayor has
always been very comfortable in.''

Despite Mr. de Blasio's efforts to lock down support, the city is in the first
chapter of the 2017 election story, not the last, analysts and potential
candidates said. All of the prospective challengers are awaiting the findings of
federal prosecutors who are said to be looking into whether his administration
traded favorable action for campaign contributions.

John A. Catsimatidis, the grocery story magnate who is considering another
Republican run for mayor, said he would not make a decision until at least
January. Similar timelines were described by other potential challengers who
have not yet declared.

''What do you want to do, go around campaigning at Christmastime?'' Mr.
Catsimatidis said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/nyregion/mayor-de-blasios-political-standing-i
mproves-after-trump-win-but-perils-remain.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             230 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wall St. Closes Down, Hurt by Drug Makers and Retail

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 609 words


Wall Street stock indexes slipped on Friday as drug companies dragged the market
lower. Small-company stocks bucked the downward trend and continued to climb,
and bond yields rose to their highest level in a year.

Drug makers like Merck and the biotech giant Amgen experienced some of the
biggest losses. Weak results from Gap and Abercrombie & Fitch hurt retailers as
investors kept a close eye on the coming holiday season.

The Dow Jones industrial average slid 35.89 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at
18,867.93. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 5.22 points, or 0.2
percent, to 2,181.90. The Nasdaq composite reached a record high early on, but
turned lower and gave up 12.46 points, or 0.2 percent, to 5,321.51.

Small companies including regional banks continued to make large gains. Those
stocks have risen sharply since the presidential election last week and are now
at record highs. Among small-company stocks, the mortgage lending service
company LendingTree added $6.80, or 7.3 percent, to close at $100, and the coal
mining company Cloud Peak Energy rose 77 cents, or 15.3 percent, to $5.79.

Losses for drug companies weighed down health care stocks. The Botox maker
Allergan retreated $8.20, or 4.1 percent, to close at $191.78, and Amgen fell
$2.13, or 1.5 percent, to $145.23. Gilead Sciences, which makes drugs used to
treat hepatitis C, lost 96 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $74.62.

Drug company stocks are coming off their biggest weekly gain in two years. The
stocks had been falling in the months leading up to the election because
investors worried that under a Hillary Clinton presidency, the federal
government would take steps to rein in drug prices. Those kinds of steps are
less likely under a Donald J. Trump presidency and a Republican-controlled
Congress.

The dollar continued to climb. The dollar rose to 110.8 yen from 109.95 yen. The
euro fell to $1.0591 from $1.0623. The dollar has not been this strong since
early 2003.

Investors continued to sell United States government bonds at a rapid clip, and
bond prices wobbled and turned lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
rose to 2.35 percent from 2.30 percent. Bond prices have fallen hard since the
election, and yields are now at their highest level in a year.

Abercrombie & Fitch plunged $2.33, or 13.8 percent, to close at $14.60 after it
reported weaker sales than analysts had expected. Shoppers are buying fewer
clothes and moving toward discount chains. The discount retailer Ross Stores
rose $2.47, or 3.8 percent, to $68 after its profit and sales figures beat
expectations.

Companies that sell common household products are also moving lower. Procter &
Gamble lost $1.07, or 1.3 percent, to close at $82, and Walgreens Boots Alliance
slumped 72 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $83.27. Those companies have fallen since
the election as investors buy stock that could benefit from faster economic
growth.

Benchmark crude rose 27 cents to settle at $45.69 a barrel in New York, while
Brent crude, which is used to price international oils, added 37 cents to $46.86
a barrel in London. Energy companies traded higher. Chevron rose $1.09, or 1
percent, to close at $109.20, and ConocoPhillips jumped $1.15, or 2.6 percent,
to $44.76.

Gold fell $8, to $1,208.50 an ounce. Silver lost 15 cents, to $16.62 an ounce.
Copper dipped 2 cents, to $2.47 a pound.

The CAC 40 in France fell 0.5 percent, and the FTSE 100 in Britain dipped 0.3
percent. The DAX in Germany lost 0.2 percent. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 index
added 0.6 percent as the yen hit a six-month low, helping shares of Japan's big
exporters. The Hang Seng in Hong Kong rose 0.4 percent.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/business/stock-markets.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial
average at 1-minute intervals on Friday. (Source: Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             231 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Unlikely Contender Rises in France as Trump's Opposite

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1234 words


PARIS -- In the age of Donald J. Trump, ''Brexit'' and the resurgent French far
right, a thin, aging career politician with an ironic smile is being called --
by him and his supporters -- France's best defense against raging global
populism.

A first test for Alain Juppé, 71, comes Sunday as France's mainstream
center-right Republican party holds a primary ahead of next spring's
presidential election. Mr. Juppé is favored to come out on top, for now.

His ascendance is all the more improbable because, in a previous post, he was
considered one of France's most unpopular prime ministers ever. And he was once
convicted in a Paris City Hall corruption scheme.

But the election of Mr. Trump has upended French politics and given new momentum
to the far-right leader Marine Le Pen. As a result, mainstream conservatives are
far from delighted.

The candidacy of the battle-scarred Mr. Juppé is seen by his supporters as a
bulwark at a time when the postelection United States is now routinely depicted
as one leg of a global tripartite menace, along with China and Russia, bearing
down on fragile Western democracies.

Mr. Juppé doesn't shout, wave his arms or make grandiose promises -- seen as a
plus by his supporters. His professorial bearing stands in contrast to his
sometimes bombastic and offending party rival, Nicolas Sarkozy, the former
president who has redefined himself as a tough guy for uncertain times.

But while other contenders for the presidency are adopting Mr. Trump's depiction
of Muslims as an inherent threat, Mr. Juppé's soothing message of French unity
has, so far, helped him to lead opinion polls.

Still, Mr. Juppé's tenure as prime minister during the 1990s was one of the most
divisive in modern French history, marked by proposed cutbacks to generous
civil-servant pensions that brought thousands into the streets in protest. Mr.
Juppé's plan ultimately failed.

This time around, he has promised more market-oriented reforms and has vowed not
to back down in the face of inevitable protests. In that regard, the
technocratic Mr. Juppé, of all the contenders, may present the biggest challenge
to France's social protections and labor rules.

The governing Socialists, saddled with a poor economic record and an unpopular
incumbent president, François Hollande, are already being written off.

The race is considered the right's to lose. Just behind Mr. Sarkozy in the
polls, nipping at his heels, is another former prime minister, François Fillon.

The winner of Sunday's Republican primary -- there will be a runoff on Nov. 27
-- is considered likely to face Ms. Le Pen in April's presidential election.

If previous patterns hold, Ms. Le Pen will be defeated, which would make Mr.
Juppé the likeliest of all those now running to become the next French
president.

The announcement on Wednesday by Emmanuel Macron, a popular former economy
minister in the Socialist government, that he, too, will enter the presidential
race is unlikely to change the right and far-right dynamic, in the eyes of many
observers.

At 38, Mr. Macron has the image of a youthful reformer, but analysts have noted
his thin record, lack of a party base, and absence of heft -- he has never held
elected office -- in a universe of surging populism.

Mr. Juppé, on the other hand, has won and lost numerous elections and has served
for many years as the mayor of Bordeaux, where he has been credited with
transforming the city.

But, with near-permanent high unemployment, an injection of energy from Mr.
Trump's victory into Ms. Le Pen's campaign -- xenophobic nationalism is her core
theme -- and the same social and economic fractures as in the United States,
there are no guarantees.

The warning signs from across the Atlantic were evident in a campaign swing
through Lower Burgundy on Wednesday, as Mr. Juppé met with disgruntled farmers
and rural officials.

The French news media has noted that the American election results have colored
the former prime minister's message with concern about the existence of two
Frances: one benefiting from globalization, and the other left behind.

There are the large, vibrant cities -- Paris, Lyon, Mr. Juppé's Bordeaux -- and
then there are the shuttered main streets of sleepy provincial capitals and
rural towns like those he visited on Wednesday.

Wearing the coat and tie he appears never to shed, Mr. Juppé got his shoes muddy
at a grain and dairy farm whose owner complained of crushing debt.

''People have talked about suffering,'' Mr. Juppé told a roomful in the tiny
village of St.-Loup-d'Ordon, ''and it is true,'' he said, speaking in a knowing,
weary tone, careful never to exaggerate.

With his eyebrows slightly arched, he listened patiently to the complaints.
Rural France feels ''abandoned'' and ''disdained'' by Paris, Mr. Juppé said.
''But we can't accept this gulf between the big cities and rural France.''

Promising a ''strong state,'' he had a warning for his audience deep in the
Burgundian countryside at St.-Julien-du-Sault: ''The world is becoming more and
more dangerous. Nationalism is on the rise.''

Similarly, at a rally this week in northern Paris, the perceived menace of
rising populism was a common theme in the speeches and comments of Mr. Juppé's
supporters.

From Mr. Juppé himself and the other center-right speakers who preceded him, Mr.
Trump's name came up often. Each time, it was met with loud boos from the crowd
of around 6,000. Mr. Juppé -- ''a man of culture,'' one speaker called him --
was depicted as the antithesis of Mr. Trump.

''After the election of Donald Trump, after Brexit, will populism triumph in our
country? No!'' shouted Patrick Devedjian, a former minister, who introduced Mr.
Juppé at the rally.

The crowd -- mostly middle-aged or older, buttoned-up and carefully dressed,
like Mr. Juppé -- roared approval. ''We've had it up to here with populist
baseness!'' Mr. Devedjian said.

Another supporter, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, a prominent centrist politician,
told the crowd, ''France doesn't need a mini-Trump in the Élysée!'' -- referring
to the presidential palace in Paris.

Valérie Pécresse, president of the Paris region's council, was equally scathing.
''Populism is about not telling the truth,'' she said. ''Alain,'' she added,
turning to Mr. Juppé, seated in the front row, ''you are the antidote to
populism.''

Mr. Juppé, who spoke in pithy bullet points, promised to stand up to enemies and
rivals -- both internal and external. In a brisk speech that reflected his
classical education at France's top schools, he brought up Mr. Trump in the
context of threats to France.

''I don't know what Donald Trump's foreign policy will be,'' he told the crowd.
''He has said contradictory things. What I know is, there will be an aggressive
commercial policy. So we must be aggressive, too.''

Setting himself up as a defender of European unity -- Ms. Le Pen is fiercely
opposed to the European Union -- Mr. Juppé said: ''France can be a world power,
in thrall to nobody. But separated, we will be vassals of the big empires all
around us: Russia, China and the U.S.''

Afterward, encountered on the boulevard outside the rally, he wondered whether
his comments about Mr. Trump had been too ''offensive.'' Mr. Juppé has served
twice as France's foreign minister and chooses his words carefully.

But then he shrugged his shoulders, saying about Mr. Trump, ''We'll see.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/world/europe/france-alain-juppe-center-right.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alain Juppé, mayor of Bordeaux, at a campaign rally in Lille,
France, on Friday. Mr. Juppé's soothing message of French unity has, so far,
helped him to lead opinion polls ahead of next spring's presidential elections.
(A4)
 Supporters of Alain Juppé rallied on Friday in Lille, France, in the north. Mr.
Juppé, who has twice served as foreign minister, has been presenting himself as
the defender of European unity. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PASCAL ROSSIGNOL/REUTERS) (A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             232 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Disoriented 'Never Trump' Stalwarts Try to Focus on Policy, Not the Man

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1119 words


WASHINGTON -- If they squint hard enough, they can see hope in the form of an
ambitious piece of legislation like a big tax cut. Then there is the fact that
Hillary Clinton will not be president. And Mike Pence, the faithfully
conservative vice president-elect, is there to keep watch.

Those conservatives who insisted that electing Donald J. Trump president would
be a grievous mistake -- a group that included governors, senators, radio hosts,
prominent columnists and some of the most savvy political operators in the
country -- are now saying they see an upside to four years of a Trump White
House.

But even as they find small reassurances, those who counted themselves part of
the Trump opposition are wondering what their place will be for the next four
years in a Republican Party they can hardly recognize. And they have begun to
ponder what it all means for a conservative movement they thought they
understood better.

''Oh God,'' said Charlie Sykes, the Wisconsin radio host who became a vocal
opponent of Mr. Trump's during the Republican primaries. He was describing how
he had arrived at peace with the election results; then, he said, he realized
that he had not done so at all. ''You kind of have to re-evaluate a lot of what
you thought about the shape of reality,'' he said. ''It's not just that you're
wrong; it's that you fundamentally misread what happened.''

What is so disorienting for many conservatives is that the Trump victory was the
culmination of the unruly populist upwelling in American politics, first
manifested in the Tea Party movement, that traditional Republicans thought they
could eventually absorb. Instead, those forces have overtaken them one by one --
first claiming their House majority leader, Eric Cantor; then their speaker,
John A. Boehner; and then an entire field of presidential candidates.

Now it may claim their party. Some on Mr. Trump's team are already boasting how
they plan to break with decades of conservative orthodoxy on government spending
and pursue a huge infrastructure spending package that sounds more Roosevelt
than Reagan.

''The conservatives are going to go crazy,'' Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump's
senior counselor and chief strategist, gleefully told The Hollywood Reporter in
an interview published Friday. ''With negative interest rates throughout the
world, it's the greatest opportunity to rebuild everything -- shipyards,
ironworks, get them all jacked up,'' said Mr. Bannon, who has aimed almost as
much fire at what he regards as establishment Republicans as he has at
Democrats. ''It will be as exciting as the 1930s, greater than the Reagan
revolution.''

Some conservatives say they could surely live with a few of the proposals of Mr.
Trump's they find worrisome, like a big spending bill, especially if they come
with sweeteners like tax breaks or spending cuts in other areas.

The easiest way to forge ahead, many are finding, is to disassociate the man
from the policy.

''I will do everything I can to help him,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham,
Republican of South Carolina, who has refused on numerous other occasions to
help Mr. Trump, including voting for him or attending the Republican National
Convention. Mr. Graham told reporters on Capitol Hill this week that he believed
he could work with Mr. Trump on issues like the military budget, which both men
support expanding.

Americans for Prosperity, the political advocacy group supported by David and
Charles Koch that decided not to spend any money on the presidential race this
year despite spending tens of millions to help Mitt Romney in 2012, is also
cracking the door to Mr. Trump. The group, however, declined to say whether it
had met or spoken to anyone inside Mr. Trump's transition team.

''We're encouraged on several fronts by the possibility of the Republican
Congress working with the new president,'' said Tim Phillips, Americans for
Prosperity's president, citing the prospect of repealing some of President
Obama's energy policies along with the Affordable Care Act.

But as with any period of grief, acceptance comes in different ways. Some find
catharsis in writing. Others console themselves in data that show they really
were not all that wrong. Then there are those who still talk as if they are in
mourning: They have good days and bad days.

''Life goes on,'' said Bill Kristol, the Weekly Standard editor and leading
''Never Trump'' stalwart, who has written columns about his coming to terms with
President-elect Trump.

Any given day, Mr. Kristol said in an interview, he feels a range of competing
sentiments. ''I'm sort of somewhere between 'trust but verify' and 'distrust but
verify,' '' he said, using modified versions of Reagan's famous quote about how
he approached negotiating with the Soviets.

On the subject of Reagan -- it is hard not to talk to conservatives today about
Mr. Trump and not have them wistfully invoke their standard-bearer -- Mr.
Kristol said he feared people were drawing parallels to Mr. Trump that risk
setting the wrong standards for success.

''The Reagan revolution wasn't that he beat Jimmy Carter in 1980,'' he said.
''Not that I didn't love that. The Reagan Revolution was that he governed
successfully for eight years and won the Cold War.''

Others are concerned that the conservative movement missed an opportunity to
appeal to a younger and more diverse group of voters. And they wonder how it
will do so with someone as divisive as Mr. Trump atop the Republican Party.

Steve Deace, a conservative radio host in Iowa and prominent ''Never Trump''
figure, pointed to the tens of thousands of voters in Wisconsin and Michigan --
states Mr. Trump barely won -- who voted in other races but did not cast a vote
for president, evidently because they could not bring themselves to vote for
him.

''That's not lightning in a bottle,'' he said, making the point that Mr. Trump
repelled so many voters that he almost lost. ''That's like you showed up for
work and they said this is your last paycheck and you and your wife go to Las
Vegas, put it all on black and it pays off.''

Mr. Sykes, the radio personality in Wisconsin, said he at least felt liberated.
By not supporting Trump he does not feel compelled to defend him like so many of
his conservative friends do.

Mr. Sykes has been writing a new book, which he tentatively titled ''How the
Right Lost Its Mind.'' But he is struggling to finish it.

''Obviously I thought it was going to have a different ending,'' he said, asking
aloud what he still struggles with. ''How did this happen? Who are your friends?
What do they actually believe?''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Lindsey Graham, a critic of Donald J. Trump, said he
hoped he could work with him on issues like military spending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             233 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

North Carolina's Republicans Fight to Save Governor, Trailing by a Whisker

BYLINE: By ALAN BLINDER and MICHAEL WINES; Alan Blinder reported from Durham,
and Michael Wines from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1125 words


DURHAM, N.C. -- Democrats and Republicans in this fiercely contested political
battleground have regularly resorted to creative legal maneuvers and
election-law changes in their efforts to wring every last vote from the state's
nearly seven million voters. But even by that standard, the disputed,
hairbreadth race for governor is plowing litigious and acrimonious ground.

Scrambling to save the incumbent governor, Pat McCrory, Republicans said they
were pursuing protests in about half of North Carolina's 100 counties, alleging
that fraud and technical troubles had pushed the Democratic nominee, Attorney
General Roy Cooper, to a statewide lead of more than 6,500 votes. But
Republican-controlled county elections boards, including one here in vote-rich
Durham County, turned back some of the challenges on Friday.

The legal and political jockeying raised the specter of a recount, and it could
ultimately climax in a political wild card: Mr. McCrory using a state law to
contest the election in the state's Republican-dominated General Assembly.

''We're supposed to have an inauguration on Jan. 7,'' Theresa Kostrzewa, a
Republican lobbyist, said Friday. ''Are we going to have a governor? That, I
think, is what most people are going to start wondering pretty soon.''

The governor's race this year was among the most bitterly contested campaigns in
the country. The state was a prime battleground in the presidential election,
and it has been fractured by debates about voting, transgender rights, Medicaid
and abortion. Republicans largely prevailed here on Election Day: Donald J.
Trump won North Carolina by more than three percentage points, and Senator
Richard Burr was re-elected by a larger margin -- but Mr. McCrory struggled.

The contest's aftermath has become a protracted spectacle. Mr. McCrory's
campaign said this week that there were ''known instances of votes being cast by
dead people, felons or individuals who voted more than once.'' A spokesman for
Mr. Cooper, Ford Porter, replied that the governor had ''set a new standard for
desperation.''

Such arguments helped transform what might have been perfunctory meetings of
elections regulators into crucial sessions that stirred frustration on both
sides. In Durham County, a Democratic stronghold, officials held a
quasi-judicial gathering with sworn witnesses, an out-of-state lawyer and
detailed discussions about the mechanics of elections.

''This is not a situation where politics enters into it,'' William J. Brian Jr.,
a Republican who is the chairman of the county elections board, sternly told the
crowded hearing room to widespread laughter and skepticism.

But to the delight of the McCrory critics who filled the room, the elections
board unanimously spurned a challenge that the North Carolina Republican Party's
general counsel, Thomas Stark, had filed. According to preliminary results, Mr.
Cooper won the county by nearly 90,000 votes, or about 59 percentage points.
(Durham County will not certify its count until at least Monday.)

''There are a lot of protests out there going to specific issues that are 10, 15
more votes here and there,'' Mr. Stark said. ''And by the time you move
statewide, that's a lot of votes. If it's not resolved at the counties, it will
end up at the state board, and the state board will have to sort it all out.''

As other Republican-controlled county elections boards rejected challenges from
Mr. McCrory's allies on Friday, the governor's critics complained of baseless
protests that they believed were intended to discredit North Carolina's
political climate.

''They're silly, small in number, poorly researched and often defamatory,''
Allison Riggs, a lawyer for the Southern Coalition for Social Justice, said of
the Republican challenges. Ms. Riggs, who was monitoring proceedings in nearby
Wake County, which includes Raleigh, the state capital, said some challenges
brought by Mr. McCrory's supporters had been easily rebuffed through a few
minutes of internet research.

A spokesman for the McCrory campaign, Ricky Diaz, said Friday that the campaign
expected people who brought the unsuccessful challenges to appeal to the State
Board of Elections, which comprises three Republicans and two Democrats. County
elections boards are made up of two Republicans and one Democrat.

The wrangling plays out in a state that has often been the epicenter of the
national debate about voter identification requirements and other,
Republican-backed changes to elections rules.

When North Carolina Democrats controlled the state government in recent decades,
they sought to cement their franchise by enacting a string of laws that made it
easier to register and vote, aiming in part to recruit more black voters.
Combined with enforcement of the federal Voting Rights Act, the effect was
profound: By 2012, turnout among African-Americans, who are overwhelmingly
Democratic, soared to 68.5 percent, up from about 42 percent in 2000.

But when Republicans gained absolute control over the executive and legislative
branches after the 2012 elections, they set about undoing the framework
Democrats had built. After the United States Supreme Court struck down a crucial
part of the Voting Rights Act, state legislators pared early voting, imposed a
photo ID requirement and ended same-day registration. A federal appeals court
ruled against much of that law in July, concluding it had targeted black voters
with ''almost surgical precision.'' That decision faces an uncertain future
before a Supreme Court poised to have a justice nominated by Mr. Trump.

But the immediate question in North Carolina is how long Mr. McCrory will
dispute the results and whether he might ultimately ask the General Assembly to
consider the election.

Under state law, the legislature could order a new election or, ''if it can
determine which candidate received the highest number of votes,'' it may declare
a winner. The law asserts that the legislature's decision in such a contest is
''not reviewable'' by the courts.

Mr. Diaz said talk about legislative involvement ''seems to be media-driven
speculation, but we're not going to discuss possible future steps that the
campaign may or may not take.''

He added, ''We are extremely concerned about the voter fraud revelations that
are emerging across the state and intend to ensure that every vote is counted
and counted properly.''

A lawyer for Mr. Cooper, Marc E. Elias, who also played down the possibility
that the General Assembly might decide the election's outcome, said Republican
challenges were ''calculated at nothing other than needless delay.''

''There is nothing,'' he added, ''that Gov. McCrory or his legal team are going
to be able to do to undo what is just basic math.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/19/us/north-carolina-governor-election.html

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Attorney General Roy Cooper, a Democrat, leads Gov. Pat
McCrory of North Carolina, right, by more than 6,500 votes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
CHRIS KEANE/REUTERS
 PATRICK SULLIVAN/THE TIMES-NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             234 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 43 words


An article last Sunday about Rudolph Giuliani's support of Donald J. Trump
referred incorrectly to the share of votes Mr. Trump won in the presidential
election. He was supported by 47 percent of those who voted; 47 percent of the
country did not vote for him.



URL:

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             235 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Digital Virus Called Fake News

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 790 words


This year, the adage that ''falsehood flies and the truth comes limping after
it'' doesn't begin to describe the problem. That idea assumes that the truth
eventually catches up. There's not much evidence of this happening for the
millions of people taken in by the fake news stories -- like Pope Francis
endorsing Donald Trump or Mr. Trump pulling ahead of Hillary Clinton in the
popular vote -- that have spread on social media sites.

Most of the fake news stories are produced by scammers looking to make a quick
buck. The vast majority of them take far-right positions. But a big part of the
responsibility for this scourge rests with internet companies like Facebook and
Google, which have made it possible for fake news to be shared nearly instantly
with millions of users and have been slow to block it from their sites.

Mark Zuckerberg, the founder and chief executive of Facebook, has  dismissed
the notion that fake news is prevalent on his platform or that it had an
influence on the election. But according to a BuzzFeed News analysis, during the
last three months of the presidential campaign, the 20 top fake news stories on
Facebook generated more engagement -- shares, likes and comments -- than the 20
top stories from real news websites.

These hoaxes are not just bouncing around among like-minded conspiracy
theorists; candidates and elected officials are sharing them, too. Senator Ben
Sasse, Republican of Nebraska, on Thursday tweeted about people who have been
paid to riot against Mr. Trump -- an idea propagated by fake news stories. A man
who wrote a number of false news reports told The Washington Post that Trump
supporters and campaign officials often shared his false anti-Clinton posts
without bothering to confirm the facts and that he believes his work may have
helped elect the Republican nominee.

Abroad, the dissemination of fake news on Facebook, which reaches 1.8 billion
people globally, has been a longstanding problem. In countries like Myanmar,
deceptive internet content has reportedly contributed to ethnic violence. And it
has influenced elections in Indonesia, the Philippines and elsewhere. Social
media sites have also been used to spread misinformation about the referendum on
the peace deal in Colombia and about Ebola in West Africa.

Facebook says it is working on weeding out such fabrications. It said last
Monday that it would no longer place Facebook-powered ads on fake news websites,
a move that could cost Facebook and those fake news sites a lucrative source of
revenue. Earlier on the same day, Google said it would stop letting those sites
use its ad placement network. These steps would help, but Facebook, in
particular, owes its users, and democracy itself, far more.

Facebook has demonstrated that it can effectively block content like click-bait
articles and spam from its platform by tweaking its algorithms, which determine
what links, photos and ads users see in their news feeds. Nobody outside the
company knows exactly how its software works and why you might see posts shared
by some of your friends frequently and others rarely. Recently, the company
acknowledged that it had allowed businesses to target or exclude users for ads
for housing, employment and credit based on their ethnicity, in apparent
violation of anti-discrimination laws. It has said it will stop that practice.

Facebook managers are constantly changing and refining the algorithms, which
means the system is malleable and subject to human judgment. This summer,
Facebook decided to show more posts from friends and family members in users'
news feeds and reduce stories from news organizations, because that's what it
said users wanted. If it can do that, surely its programmers can train the
software to spot bogus stories and outwit the people producing this garbage.

Blocking misinformation will help protect the company's brand and credibility.
Some platforms have suffered when they have failed to address users' concerns.
Twitter users, for instance, have backed away from that platform because of
abusive trolling, threatening posts and hate speech, which the company hasn't
been able to control.

Mr. Zuckerberg himself has spoken at length about how social media can help
improve society. In a 2012 letter to investors, he said it could ''bring a more
honest and transparent dialogue around government that could lead to more direct
empowerment of people, more accountability for officials and better solutions to
some of the biggest problems of our time.''

None of that will happen if he continues to let liars and con artists hijack his
platform.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/opinion/sunday/facebook-and-the-digital-virus-
called-fake-news.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MERTO/WILLEY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             236 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's Not Just the White House. Change Is in the Air on Wall St., Too

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER.

Twitter: @jeffsommer

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES;
Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1140 words


The markets are always fickle, but since the presidential election, the tastes
of traders in stocks, bonds and commodities have conspicuously changed.

In the first hours of Donald J. Trump's victory, stock futures plunged, only to
reverse themselves and surge upward. Bonds at first strengthened and then fell
sharply in price as yields leapt higher. Specific sectors reversed themselves,
too. Financial stocks, which were earthbound, began levitating. Utility stocks,
which were in high demand, fell out of favor.

''We haven't seen changes like these in ages,'' said Dave Mazza, head of
exchange traded funds and mutual fund research for State Street Global Advisors.

The question now is whether the markets' preferences will change abruptly again.

Some rollback toward pre-Trump market preferences can be expected, of course.
''Some of what we saw initially was just animal spirits and momentum,'' said
James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Fargo Asset Management.
''The market often overreacts and then corrects itself, and that has been
happening.''

Yet it is possible that the election could be remembered as a pivotal moment in
the markets, and in politics -- and not just because a new Republican-controlled
government is likely to enact some very different policies. It is at least
arguable that the election has given the markets the impetus, and the excuse, to
solidify deeper trends that were already underway.

''The election shock has accelerated some changes that were already beginning to
be evident -- in a much smaller way,'' Mr. Paulsen said. ''I think that some of
those trends are likely to stick.''

There is no denying that the election's outcome took the markets by surprise.
The overwhelming assumption in financial circles, and in the polls, was that
Hillary Clinton would win and that Mr. Trump would lose. The further expectation
was that in the unlikely event of a Trump victory, there would be a major stock
market decline. But that occurred for only several hours, and then there was a
powerful stock market rally, which has slowed but not stopped.

That's only part of the story. A revaluation of a wide range of assets and
securities has been taking place. Recent stars have faded, in the market's
transitory judgment. New investments are in vogue.

Traders have been voting with their dollars. Using State Street sector
exchange-traded funds as a proxy for the broader market, Mr. Mazza reported
unusually high inflows into the sector E.T.F.s for financial services, health
care and industrials, and lesser inflows into materials and energy stocks.
Traders stampeded away from utilities, technology and consumer staples shares.
They were neutral or slightly negative about consumer discretionary and real
estate shares.

Take financial stocks and utilities. Until recently, investors shunned banks
while celebrating utilities for their steady-Eddie dividend payouts.

That shifted radically. In the five days after the election, JPMorgan Chase,
Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America gained at least 13 percent.
Four leading utilities -- Exelon, FirstEnergy, NextEra Energy and Entergy --
lost at least 4 percent. Before the election, utility shares were ahead of
financials for the year. Five days later, they were trailing.

The nearly $5 billion inflow into the Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund, for
example, was the biggest of any week since the E.T.F.'s inception in 1998, Mr.
Mazza said. Such cash flows generally correlate with market price trends. The
biggest weekly outflow was $3.5 billion, and it occurred in the week of Jan. 28,
2008, during the financial crisis. Investors found bank stocks as scary as they
now find them attractive.

Utilities, on the other hand, moved on election week to the avoidance list, with
net outflows of $455 million in the Utilities Select Sector SPDR Fund, Mr. Mazza
said.

While traders may have shifted gears hastily, there is at least a rational basis
for their movements.

The problem lies in the assumptions behind these market shifts. Predictions
about politics are risky. Those based on underlying economics may be a bit more
reliable.

For example, the bond market shift appears at least partly based on a judgment
that inflation will rise because of Mr. Trump's policies, inchoate though they
may be. He has called for tax cuts and spending increases in the nation's
infrastructure and military. That could be inflationary if they widen a budget
deficit. But conservatives in Congress may not go along with an increase in
deficit spending. It's not clear what the Trump administration will try to
accomplish. All of these assumptions may not be borne out in fact.

Similarly, technology shares have fallen sharply, at least partly out of concern
for the possibly negative effects of some of Mr. Trump's policies, said Larry
Puglia, a portfolio manager for T. Rowe Price. It is possible, he said, that Mr.
Trump's approach to immigration will make it more difficult for highly skilled
foreigners to receive visas for work at American tech companies, or that his
trade policies will make the logistics of global tech manufacturing more
cumbersome and expensive.

People ''shouldn't jump to conclusions,'' Mr. Puglia said. ''We don't know what
will happen.'' He said he had made few changes to his investment portfolios,
preferring to wait and see.

On the other hand, some sea changes may be underway in the economy, Mr. Paulsen
said. The election could be giving traders an excuse to act on them. Recent data
indicates that economic growth has been accelerating. The election aside, he
said, it makes sense that bond yields will rise under these circumstances and
that the Federal Reserve will increase short-term interest rates. Janet L.
Yellen, the Fed chairwoman, says a rate increase is ''relatively likely'' to
occur soon, perhaps at the central bank's next meeting in December.

Rising interest rates generally help bank stocks and hurt utilities, whose
dividends no longer seem as appealing. Furthermore, rising rates support a
stronger dollar, justifying a decline in the price of gold, which has been out
of favor since the election.

In addition, the labor market has been improving for a long time, the American
economy is in better shape than it was a year or two ago, and it's reasonable
for investors to be more aggressive, Mr. Paulsen said.

Still, the risk of geopolitical or domestic shocks is real, he acknowledged, and
traders are only making educated guesses. If they turn out to be wrong, the
market could turn upside down again.

For most long-term investors, that is an argument for broad diversification.
Despite the turmoil in the markets, simple balanced portfolios of stocks and
bonds have barely moved since the election. In a period of extreme swerves and
shifts, that may count as an achievement.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/your-money/its-not-just-the-white-house-change
-is-in-the-air-on-wall-st-too.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             237 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

One Thing Voters Agree On: Better Coverage Needed

BYLINE: By LIZ SPAYD

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1170 words


THERE is a group of 10 friends in Charlotte, N.C., all women, all in their 50s,
all white. They're college educated with successful careers, and they have a
message for The New York Times: Come visit us.

They voted for Donald Trump and don't consider themselves homophobic, racist or
anti-Muslim. But now, they say, thanks to The Times and its fixation on Trump's
most extreme supporters, most people think they are. They would like a chance to
show otherwise, and one of them, Cindy Capwell, wrote my office to extend the
invitation.

Since the election, I have been on the phone with many Times readers around the
country, including Capwell, to discuss their concerns about The Times's coverage
of the presidential election. The number of complaints coming into the public
editor's office is five times the normal level, and the pace has only just
recently tapered off.

My colleague Thomas Feyer, who oversees the letters to the editor, says the
influx from readers is one of the largest since Sept. 11. Many people are
commenting on the election, but many are venting about The Times's coverage.
Readers are also taking to the comments section of Times articles to talk about
it, says the community editor, Bassey Etim.

Others are calling into customer care at multiple times the usual rate. They
have a variety of concerns, including the election coverage. Last week,
President-elect Donald J. Trump jumped in, tweeting that The Times had lost
thousands of subscribers since the election. The paper quite the opposite is the
case: It reports having the largest one-week subscription increase since the
first week of the digital pay model, in 2011.

I assume that The Times has more accurate data than Trump. But I hope any chest
thumping about the impressive subscriber bump won't obscure a hard-eyed look at
coverage. Because from my conversations with readers, and from the emails that
have come into my office, I can tell you there is a searing level of
dissatisfaction out there with many aspects of the coverage.

Readers complain heatedly and repeatedly about the forecasting odometer from The
Upshot that was anchored on the home page and predicted that Hillary Clinton had
an 80 percent chance or better of winning. They complain that The Times's
attempt to tap the sentiments of Trump supporters was lacking. And they complain
about the liberal tint The Times applies to its coverage, without awareness that
it does.

Few could deny that if Trump's more moderate supporters are feeling bruised
right now, the blame lies partly with their candidate and his penchant for
inflammatory rhetoric. But the media is at fault too, for turning his remarks
into a grim caricature that it applied to those who backed him. What struck me
is how many liberal voters I spoke with felt so, too. They were Clinton backers,
but, they want a news source that fairly covers people across the spectrum.

Horst Gudemann of Jackson, Wyo., says he doesn't want to be spoon-fed opinions
that The Times thinks he should have, and he doesn't want his primary news
source to stereotype half the country as racists. ''We shouldn't judge Black
Lives Matters by its most extremist members, and we shouldn't judge Trump
followers by theirs,'' Gudemann told me.

The national desk of The Times has correspondents around the country, and they
filed a steady stream of compelling stories from voters between coastal America.
And yet between the horse race and the campaign drama, much of their work was
simply drowned out.

That left many of the readers I spoke with feeling like The Times was a swirl of
like-mindedness. Gudemann and other readers said The Times's liberalism sounds
the loudest the closer you get to the Opinion section, perhaps not surprisingly.
Still, too many of the voices, of both the regular columnists and even guest
writers, are from people with similar views.

''I've read The Times for 50 years, and I'm tired of the old guard,'' said James
Harris, of Great Barrington, Mass. He said he'd welcome some fresher voices.

Judy Barlas of Silver Spring, Md., raises a different issue. She supported
Bernie Sanders in the primary. But she told me she saw evidence early on that
The Times believed Clinton would win the nomination and kept pushing that
scenario. It anticipated an outcome, and it stuck with it. ''When Sanders would
have a victory, they would cast it in terms of what it meant for Clinton,''
Barlas said. ''It was the same approach through the election.'' In her view,
editors and reporters developed a story line, and that's the only perspective
they presented. ''I expect more from The Times,'' she said.

The Times's executive editor, Dean Baquet, and its publisher, Arthur Sulzberger
Jr., sent an extraordinary post-election letter to subscribers that was in part
an attempt to assure readers there was some self-reflection going on in the
newsroom about its coverage. It included a vow to ''rededicate ourselves to the
fundamental mission of Times journalism. That is to report America and the world
honestly, without fear or favor, striving always to understand and reflect all
political perspectives and life experiences...'' But they also used the occasion
to congratulate themselves on their swift, agile and creative coverage on
election night, and they praised their journalism as fair to both candidates and
unflinching in its scrutiny.

I suspect that gesture soothed some readers, but many others were expecting more
of an apology. And some were repelled by what they described as a
self-congratulatory tone and what several viewed as a lack of sincerity.

Chavi Eve Karkowsky, an obstetrician in New York City, saw the letter through
the lens of her own profession. ''In medicine when something goes wrong, we ask:
'Where did we get this information? Why? What should we do differently?' We
break it down to its very basic level,'' she said. Karkowsky would have
preferred a real apology, she said, and some sense that The Times was looking
inward.

WHAT struck me most as I spoke with readers is how much, to a person, they had
something to say that was smart and reasonable. They weren't randomly selected
-- I chose them from an inbox of complaints -- but they had reactions that were
well worth hearing. I found myself wishing someone from the newsroom was on the
line with me, especially to hear how many of the more liberal voters wanted more
balanced coverage. Not an echo chamber of liberal intellectualism, but an honest
reflection of reality.

I also hope someone will pay a visit to Cindy Capwell and her friends in North
Carolina. They'd welcome a chance to reflect back on The Times's coverage from a
living room full of Trump backers.

Capwell and her husband considered canceling their subscription to The Times,
but they're holding off for now. ''We'll give The Times a chance,'' she said.
''I hope you guys will give people like us a chance too. It's time to lay down
our arms.''

Follow the public editor on Twitter @spaydl and reach her by email at
public@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/public-editor/one-thing-voters-agree-on-better
-campaign-coverage-was-needed.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             238 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The End of Identity Liberalism

BYLINE: By MARK LILLA.

Mark Lilla, a professor of the humanities at Columbia and a visiting scholar at
the Russell Sage Foundation, is the author, most recently, of ''The Shipwrecked
Mind: On Political Reaction.''

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1772 words


It is a truism that America has become a more diverse country. It is also a
beautiful thing to watch. Visitors from other countries, particularly those
having trouble incorporating different ethnic groups and faiths, are amazed that
we manage to pull it off. Not perfectly, of course, but certainly better than
any European or Asian nation today. It's an extraordinary success story.

But how should this diversity shape our politics? The standard liberal answer
for nearly a generation now has been that we should become aware of and
''celebrate'' our differences. Which is a splendid principle of moral pedagogy
-- but disastrous as a foundation for democratic politics in our ideological
age. In recent years American liberalism has slipped into a kind of moral panic
about racial, gender and sexual identity that has distorted liberalism's message
and prevented it from becoming a unifying force capable of governing.

One of the many lessons of the recent presidential election campaign and its
repugnant outcome is that the age of identity liberalism must be brought to an
end. Hillary Clinton was at her best and most uplifting when she spoke about
American interests in world affairs and how they relate to our understanding of
democracy. But when it came to life at home, she tended on the campaign trail to
lose that large vision and slip into the rhetoric of diversity, calling out
explicitly to African-American, Latino, L.G.B.T. and women voters at every stop.
This was a strategic mistake. If you are going to mention groups in America, you
had better mention all of them. If you don't, those left out will notice and
feel excluded. Which, as the data show, was exactly what happened with the white
working class and those with strong religious convictions. Fully two-thirds of
white voters without college degrees voted for Donald Trump, as did over 80
percent of white evangelicals.

The moral energy surrounding identity has, of course, had many good effects.
Affirmative action has reshaped and improved corporate life. Black Lives Matter
has delivered a wake-up call to every American with a conscience. Hollywood's
efforts to normalize homosexuality in our popular culture helped to normalize it
in American families and public life.

But the fixation on diversity in our schools and in the press has produced a
generation of liberals and progressives narcissistically unaware of conditions
outside their self-defined groups, and indifferent to the task of reaching out
to Americans in every walk of life. At a very young age our children are being
encouraged to talk about their individual identities, even before they have
them. By the time they reach college many assume that diversity discourse
exhausts political discourse, and have shockingly little to say about such
perennial questions as class, war, the economy and the common good. In large
part this is because of high school history curriculums, which anachronistically
project the identity politics of today back onto the past, creating a distorted
picture of the major forces and individuals that shaped our country. (The
achievements of women's rights movements, for instance, were real and important,
but you cannot understand them if you do not first understand the founding
fathers' achievement in establishing a system of government based on the
guarantee of rights.)

When young people arrive at college they are encouraged to keep this focus on
themselves by student groups, faculty members and also administrators whose
full-time job is to deal with -- and heighten the significance of -- ''diversity
issues.'' Fox News and other conservative media outlets make great sport of
mocking the ''campus craziness'' that surrounds such issues, and more often than
not they are right to. Which only plays into the hands of populist demagogues
who want to delegitimize learning in the eyes of those who have never set foot
on a campus. How to explain to the average voter the supposed moral urgency of
giving college students the right to choose the designated gender pronouns to be
used when addressing them? How not to laugh along with those voters at the story
of a University of Michigan prankster who wrote in ''His Majesty''?

This campus-diversity consciousness has over the years filtered into the liberal
media, and not subtly. Affirmative action for women and minorities at America's
newspapers and broadcasters has been an extraordinary social achievement -- and
has even changed, quite literally, the face of right-wing media, as journalists
like Megyn Kelly and Laura Ingraham have gained prominence. But it also appears
to have encouraged the assumption, especially among younger journalists and
editors, that simply by focusing on identity they have done their jobs.

Recently I performed a little experiment during a sabbatical in France: For a
full year I read only European publications, not American ones. My thought was
to try seeing the world as European readers did. But it was far more instructive
to return home and realize how the lens of identity has transformed American
reporting in recent years. How often, for example, the laziest story in American
journalism -- about the ''first X to do Y'' -- is told and retold. Fascination
with the identity drama has even affected foreign reporting, which is in
distressingly short supply. However interesting it may be to read, say, about
the fate of transgender people in Egypt, it contributes nothing to educating
Americans about the powerful political and religious currents that will
determine Egypt's future, and indirectly, our own. No major news outlet in
Europe would think of adopting such a focus.

But it is at the level of electoral politics that identity liberalism has failed
most spectacularly, as we have just seen. National politics in healthy periods
is not about ''difference,'' it is about commonality. And it will be dominated
by whoever best captures Americans' imaginations about our shared destiny.
Ronald Reagan did that very skillfully, whatever one may think of his vision. So
did Bill Clinton, who took a page from Reagan's playbook. He seized the
Democratic Party away from its identity-conscious wing, concentrated his
energies on domestic programs that would benefit everyone (like national health
insurance) and defined America's role in the post-1989 world. By remaining in
office for two terms, he was then able to accomplish much for different groups
in the Democratic coalition. Identity politics, by contrast, is largely
expressive, not persuasive. Which is why it never wins elections -- but can lose
them.

The media's newfound, almost anthropological, interest in the angry white male
reveals as much about the state of our liberalism as it does about this much
maligned, and previously ignored, figure. A convenient liberal interpretation of
the recent presidential election would have it that Mr. Trump won in large part
because he managed to transform economic disadvantage into racial rage -- the
''whitelash'' thesis. This is convenient because it sanctions a conviction of
moral superiority and allows liberals to ignore what those voters said were
their overriding concerns. It also encourages the fantasy that the Republican
right is doomed to demographic extinction in the long run -- which means
liberals have only to wait for the country to fall into their laps. The
surprisingly high percentage of the Latino vote that went to Mr. Trump should
remind us that the longer ethnic groups are here in this country, the more
politically diverse they become.

Finally, the whitelash thesis is convenient because it absolves liberals of not
recognizing how their own obsession with diversity has encouraged white, rural,
religious Americans to think of themselves as a disadvantaged group whose
identity is being threatened or ignored. Such people are not actually reacting
against the reality of our diverse America (they tend, after all, to live in
homogeneous areas of the country). But they are reacting against the omnipresent
rhetoric of identity, which is what they mean by ''political correctness.''
Liberals should bear in mind that the first identity movement in American
politics was the Ku Klux Klan, which still exists. Those who play the identity
game should be prepared to lose it.

We need a post-identity liberalism, and it should draw from the past successes
of pre-identity liberalism. Such a liberalism would concentrate on widening its
base by appealing to Americans as Americans and emphasizing the issues that
affect a vast majority of them. It would speak to the nation as a nation of
citizens who are in this together and must help one another. As for narrower
issues that are highly charged symbolically and can drive potential allies away,
especially those touching on sexuality and religion, such a liberalism would
work quietly, sensitively and with a proper sense of scale. (To paraphrase
Bernie Sanders, America is sick and tired of hearing about liberals' damn
bathrooms.)

Teachers committed to such a liberalism would refocus attention on their main
political responsibility in a democracy: to form committed citizens aware of
their system of government and the major forces and events in our history. A
post-identity liberalism would also emphasize that democracy is not only about
rights; it also confers duties on its citizens, such as the duties to keep
informed and vote. A post-identity liberal press would begin educating itself
about parts of the country that have been ignored, and about what matters there,
especially religion. And it would take seriously its responsibility to educate
Americans about the major forces shaping world politics, especially their
historical dimension.

Some years ago I was invited to a union convention in Florida to speak on a
panel about Franklin D. Roosevelt's famous Four Freedoms speech of 1941. The
hall was full of representatives from local chapters -- men, women, blacks,
whites, Latinos. We began by singing the national anthem, and then sat down to
listen to a recording of Roosevelt's speech. As I looked out into the crowd, and
saw the array of different faces, I was struck by how focused they were on what
they shared. And listening to Roosevelt's stirring voice as he invoked the
freedom of speech, the freedom of worship, the freedom from want and the freedom
from fear -- freedoms that Roosevelt demanded for ''everyone in the world'' -- I
was reminded of what the real foundations of modern American liberalism are.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/opinion/sunday/the-end-of-identity-liberalism.
html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY DAN GLUIBIZZI) (SR1
 SR6)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             239 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

God Emperor of the Internet

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE LAGORIO-CHAFKIN.

Christine Lagorio-Chafkin, a senior writer for Inc., is the author of the
forthcoming ''We Are the Nerds,'' about Reddit.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1320 words


On the morning of Nov. 9, a moderator who goes by the handle OhSnapYouGotServed
posted on a Reddit topic page called The_Donald: ''How does it feel, centipedes?
The God Emperor said that we would get tired of winning. Are you tired of
winning yet? Feel vindicated, centipedes. It's over and there is nothing they
can do about it. We are the future.''

Within minutes, the post had accrued more than 2,000 comments. Within days, they
numbered more than 12,000. Reddit, a hodgepodge of message boards about
everything, from kiteboarding to financial advice to Photoshopping human arms
onto images of birds, is the eighth-most popular online destination in the
United States. The_Donald, devoted, of course, to Donald J. Trump, has become
one of the most influential communities within one of the most significant
websites on the internet. Yet that post by OhSnapYouGotServed is probably
largely incomprehensible to most people.

The_Donald has around 300,000 members. Some are conservative stalwarts, others
are meme-making teenagers; all are anonymous, hidden behind user names, making
their origins and motivations difficult to pinpoint. But it's fair to say that
many saw themselves as political outsiders who reveled in rallying for the
underdog.

The community is home to copious Islamophobia, trolling of liberals and near
constant bashing of Hillary Clinton. It has evolved a dialect decipherable only
to insiders, which includes acronyms like ''MAGA'' (Make America Great Again);
epithets like ''God Emperor'' (for Mr. Trump); insults like ''cuck'' (short for
cuckold and often deployed against feminists); memes featuring a cartoon frog
associated with racism; and nicknames like 'Pedes. (Centipedes, a term for Trump
supporters adopted from a YouTube mash-up of the song ''Centipede'' by the band
Knife Party and clips of Mr. Trump's speeches. It might also be a penis joke.
Seriously.)

This, according to its moderators, was ''the largest, best and closest thing to
an official campaign subreddit for Donald Trump 2016.'' If Barack Obama's 2008
online presidential campaign was a well-oiled machine that made effective use of
supporter data, analytics and social-media tools, Mr. Trump owes some degree of
his success to an online mob of rabid, self-organized supporters.

Politics has always been a popular topic on Reddit. The site came of age during
the administration of George W. Bush -- and Reddit, in general, despised Mr.
Bush. It has leaned liberal-to-libertarian ever since, the most popular
candidates being Barack Obama, Bernie Sanders and Ron Paul. Until The_Donald.

When created by a couple of volunteer moderators in 2015, the community was just
one of many straightforward political-support pages (r/SandersForPresident and
r/HillaryClinton were already going strong) that sprang up to aggregate news
articles from sources such as CNN and The Hill.

Today The_Donald is something different. Its memes and slang serve as the
passwords to an internet speakeasy, a secret club whose rules one moderator
justified as existing to create a ''safe space'' for Trump supporters.
''Everyone wants to have a sense of belonging,'' Reddit's chief executive, Steve
Huffman, told me last week. ''At some point, it becomes almost cultlike.''

The_Donald's policy states ''no racism/anti-Semitism,'' but it also warns ''No
dissenters or S.J.W.s,'' as in social-justice warriors. ''Concern trolling,'' or
questioning views expressed on the subreddit, is also banned.

The community is notoriously difficult to manage. Its top moderator team has
turned over at least four times, according to Mr. Huffman. (This usually
happened because the community revolted, as in one instance in which a lead
moderator wrote that he believed he could get away with raping undocumented
immigrants.) Moderators also suspend and bar members more frequently than do
moderators of any other section of the site.

Still, by early 2016, its content so regularly took over Reddit's most popular
lists that the company decided to change its algorithm to make it harder for
posts from groups like The_Donald to reach prominence, according to employees.
When he announced the change, Mr. Huffman said it had been in the works for a
while, but also that Reddit was being undermined by The_Donald's attempts ''to
dominate the conversation.''

The community's power soon reached beyond Reddit. Mr. Trump tweeted out memes
and videos that originated on The_Donald and in July he participated in a
popular Reddit ''Ask Me Anything'' discussion, after his team communicated with
the moderators.

This would make little sense if The_Donald were all memes and derision. But
according to Reddit, The_Donald's moderators -- nearly 50 far-flung volunteers
-- deftly managed to channel action out of the chaos. They hosted an extensive
and at times informative Wiki about Mr. Trump's policy proposals and instructed
supporters how to help with the campaign. Members often suggested strategies for
arguing persuasively against opponents.

Perhaps most important, members organized an effort to comb through the
Democratic National Committee emails released by WikiLeaks over the summer. In
order to interpret and disseminate these documents, The_Donald relied on a
network of subscribers it (adoringly?) named ''weaponized autists.'' Of
particular fixation were emails from the Clinton campaign chairman, John
Podesta. In a debate in October, Mr. Trump said to Mrs. Clinton, ''John Podesta
said some horrible things about you.''

There is no way to know how much all this online activism made a difference on
Election Day. But there were many discussions of how The_Donald's hundreds of
thousands of members could persuade their friends on Facebook and elsewhere to
get out to vote. And, after all, they spent months discussing Nov. 8 on Reddit;
it's hard to imagine they didn't spend a few minutes in a voting booth.

But now that Mr. Trump is the president-elect, what will happen to The_Donald?
What will the centipedes do when the Trump administration becomes the
establishment, engaging with lobbyists and compromising on ideals, and all of
the typically ''Washington'' behaviors they despise?

The_Donald is still very active, and is gaining subscribers. OhSnapYouGotServed
wrote: ''Where do we go from here? We stay the course. This is our home and we
are on the winning team. They cannot silence this movement. Trump has much work
to do to drain the swamp of corruption in all corners of the country. We have an
opportunity to dismantle the establishment. We can still use our platform to aid
in these endeavors.''

Recent posts on The_Donald have promoted a letter-writing campaign for Julian
Assange and WikiLeaks. There's support for protesters countering the anti-Trump
legions in Midtown Manhattan. There's a proposed boycott of Harry Potter books
and movies, with a reminder that J. K. Rowling tweeted that Voldemort was
''nowhere near as bad'' as Mr. Trump, and a proposal to defund NPR.

There was also, for a moment this fall, a movement to set up a political action
committee, something to be expected of a candidate's fan base after the campaign
wraps up. The proposal was met with bile, and rejected as a money grab.
Moderators issued an apology and a retraction of the idea. Organizing the
''weaponized autists'' worked. Asking for letters to support Mr. Assange is
working. Asking for money did not.

Whatever The_Donald's moderators say, the community's future is uncertain
without a controversial, underdog candidate to rally behind. It's hard to
imagine that the allure of insider-only memes and perverse laughs will be enough
to sustain it over the next four years.

''There are no brakes on this train,'' wrote OhSnapYouGotServed. No brakes,
perhaps, but it will almost certainly run out of steam.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/opinion/sunday/reddit-and-the-god-emperor-of-t
he-internet.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YOSHI SODEOKA)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             240 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kaine Readily Recedes From His Brush With Fame: 'This Is More Me'

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER and THOMAS KAPLAN; Sam Borden contributed reporting
from San José, Costa Rica.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1066 words


WASHINGTON -- Senator Tim Kaine's second-floor office is much as he left it,
with a minifridge full of Virginia-made hummus and an iPod playlist heavy on
bluegrass and classic rock. The trademark harmonicas have been holstered, at
least for now, his audience shrinking from a spellbound national electorate to a
spirited weekday gathering of the Virginia Chamber of Commerce.

And his campaign plane? It was repurposed this past week to deliver the United
States men's soccer team to a match in Costa Rica, with only one lingering
reminder -- an H on the tail -- of the first female presidential nominee for a
major party in American history and the affable dad-jeans, purple-state running
mate who traveled the country making her case.

''I like feet on the ground,'' Mr. Kaine said with a smile this past week,
suggesting he was not dwelling on the trappings of temporary fame. He boarded an
elevator in the basement of the Capitol, nowhere to go but up.

Such is Mr. Kaine's view from the great election comedown of 2016: that
quadrennial moment of humility, electoral grieving and reverse culture shock,
foisted upon members of the losing ticket as they resume less glamorous public
lives.

Secret Service agents are reassigned. Media scrums migrate elsewhere. The junior
senator from Virginia is, as it turns out, a heartbeat away from very little.

Yet as Mr. Kaine and his party seek to regain their bearings after a stunning
loss, he has identified at least one task for himself in the interim: taking his
place, as necessary, in the wall of opposition to President-elect Donald J.
Trump.

''The Democratic Senate minority is about the only emergency brake there is on
the train right now,'' Mr. Kaine said this past week, adding that the levers of
obstruction must be used ''judiciously.'' ''To avoid a disaster,'' he added.
''You use it to avoid something really bad for the country.''

Though fellow Democrats, including aides to Hillary Clinton, have long trumpeted
Mr. Kaine's appeal to multiple constituencies -- given his fluency in Spanish,
genial manner and eloquence on matters of faith -- his role in the party's
long-term future is unclear.

Progressive activists have emerged from the election with a conviction that new
voices must be elevated. Mr. Kaine, who is up for re-election in 2018, said that
he would not seek the presidency or vice presidency in 2020.

Liberal stars like Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Senator Bernie
Sanders of Vermont have delivered stern, rousing addresses about the way
forward. No one is clamoring for a Tim Kaine revolution.

But as Senate Democrats gird for bruising policy squabbles and confirmation
hearings in a Trump administration, they are expected to look to Mr. Kaine with
particular urgency on foreign affairs. A member of the Foreign Relations and
Armed Services committees, from a state with a major military presence, Mr.
Kaine has made foreign policy a priority of his first term in the Senate.

He has seized especially the issue of war powers, breaking with President Obama
by calling for Congress to provide authorization for military action against the
Islamic State. Among his arguments, as he sought to galvanize Democrats: There
is no telling who might be president down the line.

''With Trump's maybe erratic foreign policy, his leadership is more important,''
Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio said of Mr. Kaine. ''I mean, we were sad to lose
him,'' he added, referring to Mr. Kaine's now-dashed prospects in the executive
branch. ''But we wanted to lose him, obviously.''

Mr. Kaine's purpose in recent days has seemed at times more therapeutic than
strategic. With emotions still raw, he supplied a measure of catharsis for
devastated supporters as he introduced Mrs. Clinton before her concession
speech.

He said what Mrs. Clinton chose not to -- that she had won the popular vote --
suggesting that the party's ideals remained resonant despite the outcome. And he
channeled William Faulkner to appraise the collective Democratic psyche.

''They killed us,'' Mr. Kaine said, ''but they ain't whooped us yet.''

Among losing running mates through the years, soul searching has assumed
different forms. After the Republican ticket's defeat in 1976, Hubert H.
Humphrey tried to lift the spirits of his despondent friend, Bob Dole, the
party's vice-presidential nominee, with an ice cream outing.

After a loss in 1980, former Vice President Walter Mondale went on to be
Democrats' nominee for president in 1984, and lost 49 states to Ronald Reagan.

Sarah Palin announced her resignation as Alaska governor eight months after she
and Senator John McCain lost the 2008 election.

Mr. Kaine, who has communicated occasionally with Mrs. Clinton since the defeat,
is accustomed to jarring transitions. He recalled the day of his successor's
inauguration as governor of Virginia in 2010.

''They take you home, and they drop you off and then they drive away,'' he said.
''I had the same feeling this time. Shaking hands with everybody was very
emotional, but watching the cars drive away, I had an immense feeling of
relief.''

His most high-profile turn, a debate with Vice President-elect Mike Pence,
attracted a smattering of critics, who chafed at his repeated interruptions of
his opponent onstage.

Mostly though, Mr. Kaine cultivated an unpretentious image during the campaign,
introducing late-night comedy viewers to his assemblage of harmonicas, which
remain in his briefcase, and urging voters to choose a ''you're hired''
president instead of a ''you're fired'' president.

He often took the stage with a flurry of less-than-self-conscious
gesticulations, like a third-base coach flashing signals, proving proficient at
vigorous fist pumps and seemingly indiscriminate crowd-pointing.

He once described life as a vice-presidential nominee, playfully, as being
''kidnapped.''

''The entourage felt cool on occasion,'' he said this past week, ''but it was
never me. So this is more me.''

Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, said he expected little change
from the ''energetically engaged, very well-informed'' colleague he had come to
know before the election. Mr. Cardin did express a measure of concern about Mr.
Kaine's short-term health.

''He's tired,'' Mr. Cardin said. ''He needs to gain a little weight back. He
lost too much weight. But he'll get back to his fighting weight.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/us/politics/tim-kaine-readily-moves-out-of-spo
tlight-this-is-more-me.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tim Kaine, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, at a rally
in Durham, N.C., in October. He cultivated an unpretentious image during the
campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Kaine's role in the party's long-term future is unclear. He sees the Senate
minority as an ''emergency brake.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRITTANY GREESON FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             241 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cornel West Will Return to Teach at Harvard

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 620 words


CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Cornel West, the fiery African-American scholar who broke
with Harvard University 14 years ago and whose searing critiques of President
Obama earned him the enmity of many on the left, has been invited back to the
university to teach.

He is to hold a joint appointment at the Harvard Divinity School and the
department of African and African-American studies as a professor of the
practice of public philosophy, a title reserved for those who have made
outstanding contributions in their professional fields.

''Our friend is coming back in this distinguished posture to resume an
appointment like the one he had when he departed,'' said Lawrence D. Bobo, the
chairman of the department.

Dr. Bobo said the position is for ''someone who is recognized not simply as a
scholar or teacher or significant voice, but who is on a bigger stage, who is
speaking to a broader public'' about ''the important questions of the day.''

Faculty members at the Divinity School and in the department voted last spring
to invite Dr. West back. That put in motion a review and led to the offer, which
has been authorized by the provost of the university, Dr. Bobo said.

Harvard's administration declined to comment on Dr. West's expected return. Dr.
West could not be reached for comment.

The appointment will most likely take place by July before the next academic
year, but could occur as soon as January, Dr. Bobo said.

Dr. West, 63, left Harvard in 2002 after an explosive, high-profile dispute with
Lawrence H. Summers, then the university's president, over the quality of Dr.
West's scholarship and the depth of the university's commitment to affirmative
action.

He went to teach at Princeton, where, in 1980, he had been the first
African-American to receive a Ph.D. in philosophy. He left Princeton in 2012 and
returned to Union Theological Seminary in New York, where he had begun his
teaching career. Dr. West, who recently married his longtime partner, is now
retired from both Princeton and Union.

Dr. West initially supported Mr. Obama for president in 2008, but later called
him a ''war criminal,'' saying his support for Israel and his drone policy made
him complicit in the deaths of innocent people. He also referred to Mr. Obama as
''a black mascot of Wall Street oligarchs,'' and in a 2012 interview called him
a ''Rockefeller Republican in blackface.''

Dr. West has remained intensely active politically. He was arrested in October
2014 while protesting the police shooting of Michael Brown, an unarmed black
man, in Ferguson, Mo., and again in 2015, while demonstrating on the one-year
anniversary of Mr. Brown's death.

Last year, he endorsed Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont for president. Mr.
Sanders later named Dr. West one of his advisers on the Democratic platform
committee, prompting some to question why Mr. Sanders had put an ''Obama hater''
in such an influential position.

Henry Louis Gates Jr., a professor and the director of the Hutchins Center for
African and African American Research at Harvard, said he and others had been
seeking to bring back Dr. West for some time.

''I think that Cornel West is one of the most brilliant scholars working in the
academy,'' Dr. Gates said. ''When he came to Harvard in 1994, he energized the
department that we were building. His classes were packed with hundreds of
students, and I think his classes once again will be packed with hundreds of
students.''

Dr. Bobo said that support among faculty for Dr. West's return was nearly
unanimous. ''I'm sure there are some ripples on the water of discontent,'' he
said, ''but the waters of support run very, very, very deep. The expectation is
that he will be with us for a very long time.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/us/cornel-west-harvard.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             242 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Facebook May Fight Fake News, Chief Says

BYLINE: By MIKE ISAAC

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 446 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- After more than a week of accusations that the spread of fake
news on Facebook may have affected the outcome of the presidential election,
Mark Zuckerberg published a detailed post Friday night describing ways the
company was considering dealing with the problem.

Mr. Zuckerberg, Facebook's chairman and chief executive, broadly outlined some
of the options he said the company's news feed team was looking into, including
third-party verification services, better automated detection tools and simpler
ways for users to flag suspicious content.

''The problems here are complex, both technically and philosophically,'' Mr.
Zuckerberg wrote. ''We believe in giving people a voice, which means erring on
the side of letting people share what they want whenever possible.''

The post was perhaps the most detailed glimpse into Mr. Zuckerberg's thinking on
the issue since Donald J. Trump's defeat of Hillary Clinton in the Nov. 8
election. Within hours of his victory being declared, Facebook was accused of
affecting the election's outcome by failing to stop bogus news stories, many of
them favorable to Mr. Trump, from proliferating on its social network.
Executives and employees at all levels of the company have since been debating
its role and responsibilities.

Facebook initially tried to play down concerns about the issue, with Mr.
Zuckerberg calling the notion that the company swayed the election ''a pretty
crazy idea'' at a technology conference on Nov. 10. In a follow-up Facebook
post, he said that less than 1 percent of the news posted to Facebook was false.

But questions continued from outside the company, with some complaining that it
was being too dismissive of its capacity to affect public opinion. In a news
conference in Berlin on Thursday, President Obama denounced the spread of
misinformation on Facebook and other platforms.

Mr. Zuckerberg came to no conclusions in his post on Friday, instead providing a
list of possible solutions the company was exploring. One option, he said, could
be attaching warnings to news articles shared on Facebook that have been flagged
as false by reputable third parties or by Facebook users. Another could be
making it harder for websites to make money from spreading misinformation on
Facebook, he said.

Mr. Zuckerberg made it clear that Facebook would take care to avoid looking or
acting like a media company, a label it has frequently resisted.

''We need to be careful not to discourage sharing of opinions or mistakenly
restricting accurate content,'' Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. ''We do not want to be
arbiters of truth ourselves, but instead rely on our community and trusted third
parties.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/business/media/facebook-considering-ways-to-co
mbat-fake-news-mark-zuckerberg-says.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, in April. Facebook has been accused
of failing to stop false news. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC RISBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             243 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

White Nationalists Converge on Capital to Celebrate 'an Awakening'

BYLINE: By ALAN RAPPEPORT and NOAH WEILAND

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1122 words


WASHINGTON -- For years, they have lurked in the web's dark corners, masking
themselves with cartoon images and writing screeds about the demise of white
culture under ominous pseudonyms. But on Saturday, in the wake of Donald J.
Trump's surprising election victory, hundreds of his extremist supporters
converged on the capital to herald a moment of political ascendance that many
had thought to be far away.

In the bowels of the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center,
three blocks from the White House, members of the so-called alt-right movement
gathered for what they had supposed would be an autopsy to plot their grim
future under a Clinton administration. Instead, they celebrated the unexpected
march of their white nationalist ideas toward the mainstream, portraying Mr.
Trump's win as validation that the tide had turned in their fight to preserve
white culture.

''It's been an awakening,'' Richard B. Spencer, who is credited with coining the
term alt-right, said at the gathering on Saturday. ''This is what a successful
movement looks like.''

The movement has been critical of politicians of all stripes for promoting
diversity, immigration and perceived political correctness. Its critics call it
a rebranded version of the Ku Klux Klan, promoting anti-Semitism, violence and
suppression of minorities.

Intellectual leaders of the movement argue that they are merely trying to
realize their desire for a white ''ethno-state'' where they can be left alone.
Mr. Trump, with his divisive language about immigrants and Muslims, has given
them hope that these dreams can come true.

''I never thought we would get to this point, any point close to mainstream
acceptance or political influence,'' said Matt Forney, 28, of Chicago. ''The
culture is moving more in my direction.''

Emboldened by Mr. Trump's takeover of the Republican Party, Mr. Forney said he
expected people openly associated with the white nationalist movement to run as
candidates in the 2018 midterm elections. The rise of populism and the decline
of political correctness, he said, present a rare opportunity.

Robert Taylor, 29, described the conference as a ''victory party.'' Mr. Taylor
was a committed libertarian, he said, working for Ron Paul's presidential
campaigns and even moving to New Hampshire for a project organized by the
like-minded. If Hillary Clinton had won the election, he said, he would have
advocated secession.

''I thought I had all the right answers and had read all the right books,'' he
said. ''I heard about the alt-right movement, and it just lit a fire in me.''

Mr. Taylor said that with Mr. Trump, ''we have breathing room; we have a little
time.''

Mr. Trump has shrugged off any suggestions that he has connections to the
alt-right. But his hard-line views on immigration and his ''America First''
foreign policy have captivated members of the movement. His appointment as chief
strategist of Stephen K. Bannon, who has called Breitbart News, the website he
long ran, a platform for the alt-right, has reinforced the notion that the
incoming president is on their side.

The white nationalist embrace of Mr. Trump was on display Saturday at the
gathering, which was the annual conference of a group called the National Policy
Institute. Guests nibbled on chicken piccata while discussing ways to reorient
America's demographics. Many of the attendees, who were mostly white men, wore
red ''Make America Great Again'' hats. T-shirts emblazoned with Mr. Trump's face
sold quickly.

While the enthusiasm inside the conference was evident, the resistance to the
alt-right remains powerful. A recent surge in hate crimes and reports of verbal
and physical assaults on minorities are putting new pressure on groups that
promote racism.

Many sites will not host their events, and some of their members have had their
social media accounts suspended in response to vicious trolling of Jewish
journalists and critics of Mr. Trump. A large group of protesters marched around
the Ronald Reagan Building, which, as a federal property, could not decline to
host the conference.

''These people have their right to freedom of speech, but the values they
represent don't represent America,'' said Jon Pattee, 48. ''I characterize them
as the shirt-and-tie arm of the white supremacist-nationalist movement.''

Republicans who are more mainstream are also unlikely to accept the movement's
more provocative ideas.

''They have to grow up and start shedding some of their more controversial
elements,'' said Erick Erickson, a conservative blogger and commentator who has
been critical of Mr. Trump. ''I don't think they will ever be accepted
wholeheartedly in the Republican Party.''

Nonetheless, alt-right leaders said they planned to use their newfound influence
to pressure Mr. Trump to take more ''heretical'' policy positions, such as a
moratorium on net immigration for the next 50 years. White Europeans, Mr.
Spencer said, would be given preference.

''In the long run, people like Bannon and Trump will be open to the clarity of
our ideas,'' said Jared Taylor, the founder of the white nationalist publication
American Renaissance.

Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Spencer, who has become the face of the alt-right, derided
NATO as ''clumsy and ineffective.'' He called for friendlier relations with the
Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, and for the deportation of undocumented
immigrants, drawing chants of ''build that wall.''

''I think moving forward the alt-right as an intellectual vanguard can complete
Trump,'' Mr. Spencer said. ''We can be the ones who are out front, who are
thinking about things that he hasn't grasped yet.''

Although alt-right leaders say they want to become more politically active, it
remains unclear how they will react to being more closely aligned to the
establishment or what they will do if Mr. Trump starts to moderate his views.
His outreach to African-Americans during the final months of the campaign
angered some of his white nationalist followers, raising concerns among them
that Mr. Trump might not be so different after all.

''It's a fleeting moment of optimism,'' said Al Stankard, 29, of Baltimore, who
goes by the pseudonym Haarlen Venison online and was handing out his novel,
''Death to the World.''

Mr. Stankard said he thought it was unlikely that Mr. Trump would be able to do
things like end affirmative action, even though he believes that the
president-elect sympathizes with the plight of ''white racists.'' He predicted
that Mr. Trump might disappoint white nationalists in the same way that
President Obama disappointed some of his supporters by failing to bring
postracial unity to the nation.

''These are semi-delusional fantasies,'' Mr. Stankard said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/us/politics/white-nationalists-celebrate-an-aw
akening-after-donald-trumps-victory.html

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard B. Spencer, a leader of the far right, addressing a
conference on Saturday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             244 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

As American as Apple Pie? The Rural Vote's Disproportionate Slice of Power

BYLINE: By EMILY BADGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL CALCULUS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1670 words


In 1920, for the first time, the Census Bureau counted more people living in
urbanized America than in the countryside. This hasn't been a rural nation ever
since.

Yet the idea of Thomas Jefferson's agrarian America has receded slowly despite
demographic change. We still romanticize the family farm, though few of them
exist anymore. We view even suburbia in pastoral terms -- the ''crabgrass
frontier,'' as the historian Kenneth T. Jackson put it. And, as the recent
Electoral College results make clear, we still live with political institutions
that have baked in a distinctly pro-rural bias, by design.

The Democratic candidate for president has now won the popular vote in six of
the last seven elections. But in part because the system empowers rural states,
for the second time in that span, the candidate who garnered the most votes will
not be president.

Rural America, even as it laments its economic weakness, retains vastly
disproportionate electoral strength. Rural voters were able to nudge Donald J.
Trump to power despite Hillary Clinton's large margins in cities like New York.
In a House of Representatives that structurally disadvantages Democrats because
of their tight urban clustering, rural voters helped Republicans hold their
cushion. In the Senate, the least populous states are now more overrepresented
than ever before. And the growing unity of rural Americans as a voting bloc has
converted the rural bias in national politics into a potent Republican
advantage.

''If you're talking about a political system that skews rural, that's not as
important if there isn't a major cleavage between rural and urban voting
behavior,'' said Frances Lee, a professor of government and politics at the
University of Maryland. ''But urban and rural voting behavior is so starkly
different now so that this has major political consequences for who has power.

''And it's not just in terms of policy outcomes,'' she continued. ''This
pervasively advantages Republicans in maintaining control of the U.S. national
government.''

The Electoral College is just one example of how an increasingly urban country
has inherited the political structures of a rural past. Today, states containing
just 17 percent of the American population, a historic low, can theoretically
elect a Senate majority, Dr. Lee said. The bias also shapes the House of
Representatives.

It exists, as a result, in the formulas that determine where highway funds are
spent or who gets Homeland Security dollars. It exists in state capitols, where
bills preferred by urban delegations have been much more likely to  be rejected.

Today, the influence of rural voters also evokes deeply rooted ideals about who
should have power in America. Jefferson and James Madison argued that the
strength of the nation would always derive from its agrarian soil.

''They had this vision of what they called the 'yeoman farmer': this
independent, free-standing person who owed nothing to anybody, who didn't
receive any payments from the government, who didn't live by a wage, but who
could support himself and his family on a farm growing everything they needed --
and that these were the people who were going to be the backbone of democracy,''
said Gerald Gamm, a political scientist at the University of Rochester,
describing what could be the forefathers of the rural voters who tilted this
year's election.

When the framers of the Constitution were still debating the shape of
institutions we have today, 95 percent of America was rural, as the 1790 census
classified the population. The Connecticut Compromise at the time created the
Senate: one chamber granting equal voice to every state to counterbalance the
House, where more populous states spoke louder.

And they made sure the compromise stuck. Today, equal state representation in
the Senate is the only provision in the Constitution that remains singled out
for protection from the amendment process; no state can lose its full complement
of senators without its permission.

But even as a deliberately undemocratic body, the Senate has slipped further out
of alignment with the American population over time.

The Senate hasn't simply favored sparsely populated states; politicians in
Washington created sparsely populated states to leverage the Senate's skewed
power.

''When we talk about small-state bias, all of that was an intentional policy
choice,'' said Jowei Chen, a political scientist at the University of Michigan.
Republicans in Congress passed the 1862 Homestead Act, offering free land to
settlers who would move to territories that would eventually become states --
creating more Senate seats and Electoral College votes for a Republican Party
eager to keep government control away from Southern Democrats. They even managed
to divide the Dakota Territory into two states, worth twice the political power.

As the Plains later depopulated and American cities, then suburbs, swelled, the
Senate became even more unrepresentative.

Jeffersonian suspicion of big cities also appears in the sites of state
capitals: Albany and not New York; Jefferson City and not St. Louis; Springfield
and not Chicago. Political scientists at the University of California, Davis,
have found that most state capitals were located near what was then the
population centroid of each state -- typically closer to the geographical center
of the state, and not the place where the most people already lived, breaking
with how much of the world sited its capitals.

The state legislatures there also grew significantly less representative as
America urbanized. In 1961, when lawyers in Tennessee brought what would be a
seminal case before the Supreme Court challenging the practice, the state
legislature had not reapportioned its districts to reflect population change in
60 years. Maryland was still using districts drawn in 1867.

Even states that had constitutions requiring equal population districts were
ignoring them. Florida, Georgia and New Mexico gave small counties 100 times the
voting power of the most populous ones. In California, Amador County (population
14,294) had the same representation in the state's Senate as Los Angeles County
(population 6,038,771).

''They justified it because that was a cultural norm; it was just the way things
were,'' said Stephen Ansolabehere, a Harvard professor of government. Rural
legislators had no incentive to change a system that favored them. ''They just
let it keep getting worse. You're in power. Why change?''

By the mid-20th century, no state approximated majority rule. America at the
time, Dr. Ansolabehere and James M. Snyder Jr. wrote in their book ''The End of
Inequality,'' had some of the most unequal representation in the world. A series
of Supreme Court cases beginning with that Tennessee complaint upended this
system and established the standard that equal representation means ''one
person, one vote.'' Not one town, one vote. Or one county, one senator. Only the
United States Senate, protected by the Constitution, remained unchanged.

Still, the House retains a rural bias. Republican voters are more efficiently
distributed across the country than Democrats, who are concentrated in cities.
That means that even when Democrats win 50 percent of voters nationwide, they
invariably hold fewer than 50 percent of House seats, regardless of partisan
gerrymandering.

The Electoral College then allocates votes according to a state's congressional
delegation: Wyoming (with one House representative and two senators) gets three
votes; California (53 representatives and two senators) gets 55. Those two
senators effectively give Wyoming three times more power in the Electoral
College than its population would suggest. Apply the same math to California and
it would have 159 Electoral College votes. And the entire state of Wyoming
already has fewer residents than the average California congressional district.

In Washington, these imbalances directly influence who gets what, through
small-state minimums (no state can receive below a certain share of education
funding) and through formulas that privilege rural states (early road spending
was doled out in part by land area and not road use).

There are policy reasons that the country might want to disproportionately spend
resources on places with few people. Repairing an interstate highway in rural
Oklahoma keeps national commerce flowing. And when the private market won't
build essential infrastructure, public investments like the New Deal's rural
electrification help fight poverty.

But even when you control for policy need, Dr. Lee's research has found that a
significant rural bias in resources persists. You can see it in Homeland
Security funding that gave Wyoming, for example, seven times as much money per
capita as New York after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. You can see it in
Alaska's proposed ''bridge to nowhere.''

''In that case,'' Dr. Ansolabehere said, ''Alaska has so much disproportionate
power in the negotiation over funds that in order for California to get some,
Alaska gets a lot -- to the point of not knowing what to spend the money on.''

These calculations also mean that populous states subsidize less populous ones,
which receive more resources than the tax dollars they send to Washington.

The challenge for rural voters now is that their electoral strength, and even
these funding formulas, have not translated into policies that have fixed the
deep economic problems they face, from high unemployment to declining wages. And
it's unclear how Mr. Trump will do that for them, either -- even if his major
infrastructure proposal comes to pass and helps rebuild their roads.

If he can't, rural voters may stray from his party again. In that future, the
rural bias in American politics would persist. But Democrats might yet have a
chance to blunt its effects.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/upshot/as-american-as-apple-pie-the-rural-vote
s-disproportionate-slice-of-power.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A crowded Coney Island beach in 1923. Tight urban clustering
can dilute the power of a vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT SENNECKE/ULLSTEIN BILD,
VIA GETTY IMAGES) (A11)
 Census taking in the Dakotas in the 1880s. The Dakota Territory became two
states, worth twice the political power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY D.F. BARRY, VIA LIBRARY
OF CONGRESS) (A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             245 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook Must Step Up to Defend Truth

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIATOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words


Friday night, the Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg went on his vast social
network to convince an expanding chorus of critics -- including the departing
president of the United States -- that he honest-to-goodness wants to combat the
''fake news'' that is running wild across his site and others, and turning our
politics into a paranoiac fantasy come to life.

''We've been working on this problem for a long time and we take this
responsibility seriously,'' he wrote.

''We've made significant progress, but there is more work to be done,'' he
continued, listing various steps Facebook was taking, like making it easier to
report bad information and enlisting fact-checking organizations.

It was heartening to hear, especially after his earlier assertion that it was
''crazy'' to believe that misinformation on Facebook had affected the
presidential election in any real way -- despite copious evidence that it was
disturbingly in the mix, whether it directly swung the result or not.

But as Mr. Zuckerberg went on to say that Facebook had to be careful not to
mistakenly block ''accurate content,'' he added this: ''We do not want to be
arbiters of truth ourselves,'' which was why he said Facebook would continue to
rely on ''our community and trusted third parties.''

His statement pointed up how much Facebook struggles to find the balance between
its mission to be a free-expression utopia for its 1.8 billion users and its
responsibility to protect them from all that is defamatory, dangerous (like
terrorist propaganda) and untrue.

But more to the point, it appeared to buy into the notion that truth is relative
at a time when that notion has to finally go away. Do you really need an outside
arbiter to determine whether a video suggesting -- without basis -- that Hillary
Clinton was involved in John F. Kennedy Jr.'s fatal plane crash in 1999 should
be allowed to stand? Really?

Truth doesn't need arbiters. It needs defenders. And it needs them now more than
ever as the American democracy staggers into its next uncertain phase.

With a mainstream news media that works hard to separate fact from fiction under
economic and political threat, Facebook -- which has contributed to that
economic threat by gobbling up so much of the online advertising market -- is
going to have a special responsibility to do its part.

Just imagine what things will look like if the unsavory elements that tore
through the 2016 election -- false narratives, fake news and aggressive efforts
to delegitimize traditional journalism -- come back into play as Donald J. Trump
presses to enact his agenda.

If the past week provided any indication of where politics are going, the next
four years are going to require an all-hands-on-deck effort to keep the national
conversation honest.

The national security adviser Mr. Trump named last week, Michael T. Flynn, a
retired Army lieutenant general, has subscribed to the conspiracy theory that
Shariah law is taking root in the United States (it isn't), contributing to his
insistence that Americans have every reason to view Islam as ''a threat.''

He recently used Twitter to circulate a fake news item that the Federal Bureau
of Investigation was sitting on evidence from Anthony Weiner's laptop that would
''put Hillary and her crew away for life.''

Mr. Trump's nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, has
falsely claimed that hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants are
successfully crossing the border annually.

Then there was the announcement by the conspiracy theorist Alex Jones that Mr.
Trump had called to thank him and his radio and internet audience for their
support in the campaign.

Add to that the fact that Mr. Trump was the most prominent promoter of the false
notion that President Obama wasn't born here, and didn't hesitate to repeat the
outrageous suggestion that the father of Senator Ted Cruz was linked to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

Then consider what it may look like when Mr. Trump pursues policies regarding
Muslim immigrants and undocumented immigrants.

It's not so outlandish to envision Mr. Trump's attempts to sell his plans
getting a lift from the likes of Mr. Jones or a fake site out of Macedonia --
perhaps claiming that Democrats are working with ISIS to use undocumented
immigrants to poison local water supplies or some such.

President Obama seemed to have had something like that in mind when he told
reporters in Germany on Thursday, ''If we are not serious about facts and what's
true and what's not,'' and ''if we can't discriminate between serious arguments
and propaganda, then we have problems.''

Mr. Obama knows of what he speaks. He had to muddle through the first wave of
this.

You might remember how his health care plan was marred by a false accusation
that the plan included so-called death panels that would decide who lived and
who died based on their ''level of productivity to society,'' as former Gov.
Sarah Palin put it (on her Facebook page!).

The false ''death panel'' allegation was partly based on proposals to reimburse
doctors for optional consultations with families over end-of-life care
decisions.

The accusations took on such power that even Newt Gingrich signed on to the
falsehood despite the fact that he had previously expressed bullish support for
end-of-life planning. (He explained himself in a 2009 letter to The New York
Times.)

News organizations, including this one, debunked the myth. But the bill's
authors stripped out the provision just the same. And by then the ''death
panel'' fiction had negated any shot at a reasoned, ideological debate -- you're
joining the Democrats' plan to kill our infirm children and parents?!

As Dan Pfeiffer, who was the president's chief communications strategist at the
time, so grimly put it to me last week, ''The faux death panels were the canary
in the coal mine about the coming death of truth.''

Things have advanced since then. Today's fake news is limited only by the
imaginations of its inventors and the number of shares it can garner on Facebook
or Twitter.

(To wit: The one million shares of the preposterous notion that Mrs. Clinton
secretly sold weapons to ISIS. BuzzFeed News -- which has excelled at
illuminating the fake news problem -- highlighted that example in its alarming
analysis  showing that during the campaign cycle fake news was shared among
Facebook users more often than real news was.)

That's why people who care about the truth -- citizens, journalists and, let's
hope, social media giants like Facebook, too -- will have to come up with a
solution to this informational nihilism, fast.

It's easier said than done. The combination of attacks seeking to delegitimize
serious news organizations and a drop in overall trust in the news media has
made many people wary of legitimate fact-checking. And, as my colleague John
Herrman noted last weekend, politicized voices can easily drown honest
journalism all too easily on social media.

There is growing talk of an ambitious journalistic collaboration to beat back
the tide. Industry thinkers and leaders are coming together online to brainstorm
solutions, as Jeff Jarvis, the City University of New York journalism professor,
and Eli Pariser, the Upworthy co-founder, have done. (Check them out online.)
And I'd say it's high time that television news -- with its still-huge audiences
-- gets into the act with more than just token gestures at fact-checking.

But this much seems clear: The moment calls for some sort of hyperfactual
counterinsurgency that treats every false meme as a baby Hitler to be killed in
its crib with irrefutable facts.

So hey, Zuck, let's roll.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/business/media/zuckerberg-and-facebook-must-de
fend-the-truth.html

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Journalists waited in the lobby of Trump Tower in New York on
the evening of Nov. 11. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             246 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Surprise Leader in French Primary Knocks Out Sarkozy

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 726 words


PARIS -- A taciturn, tradition-minded former prime minister, François Fillon,
emerged as the surprise front-runner in the first round of presidential primary
voting among center-right candidates in France on Sunday, advancing to the
second round next week against another former prime minister, Alain Juppé, who
came in second.

Mr. Fillon delivered an unexpected knockout to a third candidate, former
President Nicolas Sarkozy, whose strident appeals to French identity and
get-tough approach to immigrants and Islamist terrorism had been thought to
guarantee him a place in the second round of voting, on Nov. 27. Mr. Fillon,
whom Mr. Sarkozy appointed as prime minister in 2007, co-opted those themes,
using less harsh language, and pushed aside his former boss. With the governing
Socialists largely discredited, the winner of the second-round contest in the
Republicans' party primary will be considered the favorite in the presidential
election next year.

With most of the votes counted, Mr. Fillon led with 44.1 percent, Mr. Juppé was
second with 28.3 percent, and Mr. Sarkozy had 20.9 percent.

Mr. Fillon, who was Mr. Sarkozy's prime minister for five years, had languished
in polls for months behind him and the more moderate Mr. Juppé. French
commentators had largely written off Mr. Fillon, pointing out that Mr. Sarkozy
appeared to have seduced the party's hard-right voters, who were worried about
immigration and Islam, and that Mr. Juppé seemed to appeal to the party's more
centrist voters, seeking a more inclusive approach. A week ago, most were
confidently predicting a Juppé-Sarkozy runoff.

But in the past week, Mr. Fillon advanced in the polls, having positioned
himself between the integrationist message of Mr. Juppé and the tougher
positions of Mr. Sarkozy. On Sunday night, French television commentators
expressed astonishment that the longtime favorite, Mr. Juppé, had suddenly
become a challenger with tough odds.

The winner of the second round is likely to face the candidate of France's
far-right National Front, Marine Le Pen, in the presidential election. On
Sunday, Ms. Le Pen boasted that the Republicans' primary had been fought on her
themes: French identity, reconsideration of France's role in Europe, and a
crackdown on immigration and jihadists.

Those themes are likely to dominate electioneering here. For the next week, Mr.
Fillon and Mr. Juppé will be seeking Mr. Sarkozy's voters. Mr. Fillon has
promised to add 16,000 prison cells, create a special antiterrorism judicial
unit, crack down harshly on anybody who maintains any relation with the Islamic
State, and strip the French citizenship of those who embark on jihad.

The themes are a natural fit for Mr. Sarkozy's voters, and as he conceded on
Sunday night, Mr. Sarkozy said he would vote for Mr. Fillon -- a man who had
expressed disdain for his former patron during the campaign. But the two have a
similar outlook on the world, and in particular a more conciliatory approach
than Mr. Juppé to the Russia led by Vladimir V. Putin. Mr. Fillon has called for
a Western coalition with Mr. Putin, the Russian president, to fight ISIS.

Still, a large majority of voters said in exit polls on Sunday that economic
issues were of uppermost concern, and on that subject, Mr. Fillon could be
vulnerable. He has promised harsh measures -- in the French context -- to roll
back the role of the state in the country's economy: cutting 500,000 to 600,000
civil service positions, eliminating the 35-hour workweek, and moving to a
39-hour workweek in state workplaces like hospitals. These kinds of campaign
planks typically bring tens of thousands of demonstrators into the streets -- as
Mr. Juppé learned at his expense in the mid-1990s -- and bring down governments.

Mr. Juppé has criticized Mr. Fillon's economic program as far too harsh, and
unworkable. He seems certain to hammer that theme in the seven days remaining in
the primary campaign. But the odds may now be against him.

''Fillon will win,'' said Gérard Grunberg, a political scientist at the Paris
Institute of Political Studies, who added that a week ago, he would not have
predicted Mr. Fillon's swift rise.

''Juppé campaigned too far to the left for the French right,'' Mr. Grunberg
said. Referring to Mr. Fillon, he added, ''I didn't think it would all
crystallize around his personality.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/world/europe/francois-fillon-nicolas-sarkozy-f
rance-election.html

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: François Fillon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             247 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fact Check: This Pizzeria Is Not a Child-Trafficking Site

BYLINE: By CECILIA KANG; Doris Burke contributed research from New York.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words


WASHINGTON -- Days before the presidential election, James Alefantis, owner of a
local pizza restaurant called Comet Ping Pong, noticed an unusual spike in the
number of his Instagram followers.

Within hours, menacing messages like ''we're on to you'' began appearing in his
Instagram feed. In the ensuing days, hundreds of death threats -- one read ''I
will kill you personally'' -- started arriving via texts, Facebook and Twitter.
All of them alleged something that made Mr. Alefantis's jaw drop: that Comet
Ping Pong was the home base of a child abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton and her
campaign chief, John D. Podesta.

When Mr. Alefantis discovered that his employees were getting similar abusive
messages, he looked online to unravel the accusations. He found dozens of
made-up articles about Mrs. Clinton kidnapping, molesting and trafficking
children in the restaurant's back rooms. The articles appeared on Facebook and
on websites such as The New Nationalist and The Vigilant Citizen, with one
headline blaring: ''Pizzagate: How 4Chan Uncovered the Sick World of
Washington's Occult Elite.''

None of it was true. While Mr. Alefantis has some prominent Democratic friends
in Washington and was a supporter of Mrs. Clinton, he has never met her, does
not sell or abuse children, and is not being investigated by law enforcement for
any of these claims. He and his 40 employees had unwittingly become real people
caught in the middle of a storm of fake news.

''From this insane, fabricated conspiracy theory, we've come under constant
assault,'' said Mr. Alefantis, 42, who was once in a relationship with David
Brock, a provocative former right-wing journalist who became an outspoken
advocate for Mrs. Clinton.

Mr. Alefantis suspects those relationships may have helped to make him a target.
''I've done nothing for days but try to clean this up and protect my staff and
friends from being terrorized,'' he said.

Fake news online has been at the center of a furious debate for the past few
weeks over how it may have influenced voters in the presidential election.
President Obama warned last week that we are ''in an age where there's so much
active misinformation and it's packaged very well'' on social media sites. The
criticism has buffeted web companies such as Google and Facebook, whose chief
executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has promised to work on technology tools to slow the
gusher of false digital information.

But Mr. Alefantis's experience shows it is not just politicians and internet
companies that are grappling with the fake news fallout. He, his staff and
friends have become a new kind of private citizen bull's-eye for the purveyors
of false articles and their believers.

For more than two weeks, they have struggled to deal with the abusive social
media comments and to protect photos of their own children, which were used in
the false articles as evidence that the pizza restaurant was running a
pedophilia ring. One person even visited Comet Ping Pong to investigate the
allegations for himself.

To combat the fake news tide, Mr. Alefantis has contacted the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the local police, and he has asked Facebook, Twitter, YouTube
and Reddit to remove the articles. Yet the misinformation has continued to
spread, growing into a theory known as #pizzagate that has traveled to Ireland.
At one point, Comet's staff counted five #pizzagate Twitter posts a minute. As
recently as Sunday night, the Twitter message ''Don't let up. #PizzaGate
EVERYWHERE'' was reposted and liked hundreds of times.

''It's like trying to shoot a swarm of bees with one gun,'' said Bryce Reh,
Comet's general manager, whose wife asked him to leave his job because of the
threats and vulgar messages they both have received on their social media
accounts.

I won't stop tweeting about #PizzaGate until I know for a fact that there aren't
children in danger being covered up by the US government -- Skye
(@TradSierraHotel) November 20, 2016

Mr. Alefantis, an artist born and raised in Washington, co-founded Comet Ping
Pong 10 years ago as a casual spot for clay oven pizza. The restaurant has
kid-friendly features like Ping-Pong tables and a craft room. Famous natives
like members of the band Fugazi have held small shows there. The eatery, which
seats 120, is a mash-up of red and white checkered tablecloths and modernist
murals and paintings from friends of Mr. Alefantis.

Mr. Alefantis mingles with other Washington chefs and his establishment helped
him to be named No. 49 in GQ magazine's 50 most powerful people in Washington in
2012. His customers include some high-powered locals, such as Tony Podesta, the
brother of John Podesta, whom Mr. Alefantis knows casually. Mr. Alefantis and
Mr. Brock, who is the founder of Media Matters for America, a website that
tracks press coverage critical of the Clintons and works to debunk
misinformation in the conservative press, broke up five years ago.

The misinformation campaign began when John Podesta's email account was hacked
and his emails were published by WikiLeaks during the presidential campaign.
Days before the election, users on the online message board 4Chan noticed that
one of Mr. Podesta's leaked emails contained communications with Mr. Alefantis
discussing a fund-raiser for Mrs. Clinton.

The 4Chan users immediately speculated about the links between Comet Ping Pong
and the Democratic Party. Some posited the restaurant was part of a larger
Democratic child trafficking ring, which was a theory long held by some
conservative blogs. That idea jumped to other social media services such as
Twitter and Reddit, where it gained momentum on the page ''The_Donald.'' A new
Reddit discussion thread called ''Pizzagate'' quickly attracted 20,000
subscribers.

Glen Caplin, a former campaign official for Mrs. Clinton, did not comment
directly about Comet Ping Pong but said, ''WikiLeaks has spawned several
conspiracy theories that have been independently debunked.'' Mr. Podesta did not
respond to requests for comment.

Soon, dozens of fake news articles on sites such as Facebook, Planet Free Will
and Living Resistance emerged. Readers shared the stories in Saudi Arabia and on
Turkish and other foreign language sites.

Last week, one supporter of the Pizzagate theory shot a live video from within
the restaurant during a busy dinner shift. Local police, who had parked across
the street after Mr. Alefantis filed a report about the fake news stories and
threats, told the man to leave.

In a statement, the District of Columbia Metropolitan Police Department said it
was monitoring the situation and is ''aware of general threats being made
against this establishment.'' The F.B.I. said it ''does not confirm or deny the
existence of investigations.''

Most troubling for Mr. Alefantis and staff has been the use of children's
images, pilfered from the restaurant's social media pages and the personal
accounts of friends who had ''liked'' Comet Ping Pong online. Those photos have
been used across dozens of websites. Parents, who declined to talk publicly for
fear of retribution, have hired lawyers to get the photos removed.

Musicians who have performed at Comet Ping Pong have been pulled in, too. Amanda
Kleinman, whose band, Heavy Breathing, has performed there several times,
deleted her Twitter account after the abusive comments became overwhelming.
Similar comments have flooded her YouTube music clips.

''We are at a dangerous place in American culture where a good percentage of
people aren't distinguishing what is a real news source based on real reporting
and fact-checking and only reinforcing pre-existing ideas they have,'' Ms.
Kleinman said.

The frustration has been compounded by the lack of recourse for Mr. Alefantis,
his friends and employees. Yelp blocked the comments sections of Comet Ping
Pong's review page after reports of abusive comments and fake news in reviews.
YouTube said it prohibits threats, harassment and hate speech and has tools for
flagging violations and filing complaints for the site to take further action,
but has largely not blocked comments on these videos. Twitter declined to
comment, and Facebook did not have any further comment.

After employees and Mr. Alefantis complained to Reddit about how Comet Ping Pong
was being targeted on the site, the #pizzagate discussion thread posted a
warning that revealing personal information about individuals was prohibited.

''We know that we have more work to do and we take our responsibility to address
online abuse seriously,'' Reddit said in a statement.

Little relief appears in sight. Over the weekend, Comet Ping Pong received
dozens of calls from people screaming obscenities and threats. Mr. Alefantis got
50 nasty Instagram direct messages, including one that warned, ''This place
should be burned to the ground!''

On Monday morning, when Mr. Alefantis picked up his phone, he saw a text from a
staff member warning that an individual might protest in front of the
restaurant.

''It's endless,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/technology/fact-check-this-pizzeria-is-not-a-c
hild-trafficking-site.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Alefantis, owner of Comet Ping Pong, at his restaurant in
Washington, D.C. Fake news websites have called it the home base of a child
abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton and John D. Podesta. (B1)
 Patrons at Comet Ping Pong. Several of the restaurant's employees have been
barraged with ugly social media comments over the false child abuse allegations.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAD BARTLETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             248 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump Calls TV Figures to a Private Meeting, and Lets Them Have It

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and SYDNEY EMBER; John Koblin contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 899 words


It had all the trappings of a high-level rapprochement: President-elect Donald
J. Trump, now the nation's press critic in chief, inviting the leading anchors
and executives of television news to join him on Monday for a private meeting of
minds.

On-air stars like Lester Holt, Charlie Rose, George Stephanopoulos and Wolf
Blitzer headed to Trump Tower for the off-the-record gathering, typically the
kind of event where journalists and politicians clear the air after a
hard-fought campaign.

Instead, the president-elect delivered a defiant message: You got it all wrong.

Mr. Trump, whose antagonism toward the news media was unusual even for a modern
presidential candidate, described the television networks as dishonest in their
reporting and shortsighted in missing the signs of his upset victory. He
criticized some in the room by name, including CNN's president, Jeffrey A.
Zucker, according to multiple people briefed on the meeting who were granted
anonymity to describe confidential discussions.

It is not unusual for journalists to agree to off-the-record sessions with
prominent politicians, including President Obama, as a way to gain insights and
develop relationships.

But after details of Mr. Trump's hectoring leaked on Monday in The New York
Post, it seemed the meeting was being used as a political prop, especially after
Trump-friendly news outlets trumpeted the session as a take-no-prisoners move by
a brave president-elect.

''Trump Slams Media Elite, Face to Face,'' blared the Drudge Report. ''Trump
Eats Press,'' wrote Breitbart News.

Those curious to hear more of what the president-elect had to say at the
closed-door session were out of luck: Although more than two dozen prominent
journalists attended, many declined to comment because they had agreed to keep
the proceedings off the record.

Kellyanne Conway, a top adviser to Mr. Trump, described the meeting in more
tempered terms. ''It was very cordial, very productive, very congenial,'' Ms.
Conway told reporters at Trump Tower. ''It was also very candid and very
honest.''

''From my own perspective,'' she added, ''it's great to hit the reset button.''

Still, the encounter crystallized concerns that Mr. Trump, emboldened by his
victory, may refuse to abide the traditional dynamic of a president and the
journalists who cover him, a naturally adversarial relationship that is
nevertheless based on some level of mutual trust.

Some media critics questioned why the television networks, which granted Mr.
Trump hundreds of hours of free exposure during the campaign, would agree to
Monday's terms. ''They learned *nothing* over past 18 months of covering
Trump,'' tweeted Erik Wemple of The Washington Post.

Television is of particular interest to Mr. Trump, who is a keen watcher of
morning shows and this past weekend tweeted his displeasure at being mocked on
an episode of ''Saturday Night Live.''

Coverage of Mr. Trump increased ratings and revenue at news networks, even as
some executives conceded that, early in the race, the president-elect was
granted too much free exposure. By the end of the campaign, Mr. Trump seemed to
turn on certain networks and television journalists, in particular CNN,
prompting supporters to chant anti-media slogans.

Two people briefed on Monday's meeting said that Mr. Trump seemed well versed in
the networks' ratings increase during the election and did not hesitate to bring
the subject up.

Mr. Trump is meeting with representatives of several news organizations this
week, including The New York Times, where he is scheduled to speak on Tuesday
with editors, reporters, columnists and the newspaper's publisher.

Reince Priebus, Mr. Trump's chief of staff; Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trump's daughter;
and Ms. Conway are expected to accompany the president-elect to The Times,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the meeting.

The meeting was organized at the request of Mr. Trump's team, Eileen Murphy, a
spokeswoman for The Times, said on Monday. Mr. Trump is expected to speak on the
record with Times reporters and columnists; there is also a short off-the-record
session planned, which Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, described as
''an opportunity to discuss past and future coverage.''

As a candidate, and now as president-elect, Mr. Trump has frequently attacked
The Times, establishing the paper as a top target in his continuing feud with
the media. Mr. Trump often refers to the ''failing'' New York Times and has
threatened to sue the company for libel over an article about two women who
accused him of touching them inappropriately years earlier.

The failing @nytimes story is so totally wrong on transition. It is going so
smoothly. Also, I have spoken to many foreign leaders. -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) November 16, 2016

The Times angered Mr. Trump with some of its unflattering coverage during the
campaign, including reports on his taxes, his treatment of women and his legal
troubles with Trump University.

Since being elected president, he has blasted out more criticisms, using Twitter
to disparage the newspaper's coverage and to claim it had lost ''thousands of
subscribers because of their very poor and highly inaccurate coverage of the
'Trump phenomena.''' (The Times disputed that assertion, saying that it had
added 41,000 net paid subscriptions for its news products in the week after the
election.)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/business/media/trump-summons-tv-figures-for-pr
ivate-meeting-and-lets-them-have-it.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martha Raddatz of ABC at Trump Tower on Monday for a meeting of
TV journalists and executives called by Donald J. Trump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD
HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             249 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Jolt of Blue-Collar Hope

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 872 words


NEW CASTLE, Del. -- The nearby factory that made Dodge Durangos closed eight
years ago. The General Motors Boxwood Road Plant -- open since 1947 -- closed
the next year. So did the oil refinery in Delaware City.

In the span of a year during the financial crisis, once-prosperous northern
Delaware had to confront post-industrial devastation.

It's sort of the devastation that now has the country's attention. Donald Trump
won the presidency with huge margins in places left behind. He lost the popular
vote, but won 26 of the 30 lowest-income states, including the old powerhouses
of Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan.

These places are stuck in what I call the Great American Stagnation. Tens of
millions of people have experienced scant progress for decades. Median net worth
is lower than in the 1980s, and middle-aged whites, shockingly, aren't living as
long as they used to. Ending this stagnation is the central political problem of
our age: It fuels Trumpian anger and makes every other societal problem harder
to solve.

I came here to New Castle looking for a jolt of hope after the terribly
dispiriting presidential campaign. I came to see one of the more promising
attacks on the Great American Stagnation.

In the wake of the financial crisis, Delaware's new governor, Jack Markell, and
other officials did obvious things, like using stimulus money to stem the damage
and even managing to reopen the refinery. But Markell, who'd run as an insurgent
Democrat, understood that nostalgia alone wouldn't help families pay their
bills. So he began looking for ways both to save old jobs and to create new
ones. His answer wasn't original -- but that's O.K., because it was right.

In his almost eight years in office, he has made his No. 1 priority lifting the
skills of Delaware's citizens. He worked on traditional education, expanding
high-quality pre-K and helping low-income teenagers go to college. And he worked
on what academic researchers like Robert Schwartz call ''the forgotten half'':
the many students who won't graduate from college but who also need strong
skills to find decent jobs. Their struggles are a major reason that America's
work force is no longer considered the world's most highly skilled.

It's too early for a final verdict in the state, but the signs are encouraging.
High school graduation rates have jumped. Educational attainment is above
average -- as are incomes. The jobless rate is 4.3 percent.

New Castle, on the Delaware River, is telling, because it has focused on skills
while staying true to its blue-collar roots. It's home to the state's largest
high school, William Penn, which has long educated the children of workers from
General Motors and the refinery. By 2011, enrollment had fallen by nearly 20
percent as students fled for other options.

''People came out and said, 'The high school is not serving the community,'''
the former principal, Jeffrey Menzer, told me. ''They wanted more career
opportunities, more hands-on stuff.''

Markell makes a similar point: ''A lot of kids who drop out of high school --
they don't drop out because they're not intelligent. They drop out because they
think what they're learning is not relevant to the rest of their lives.''

William Penn reorganized itself into 20 different ''majors,'' and every student
must pick one, be it manufacturing, computer science or agriculture. (The state
has a broader version of the program, called Pathways to Prosperity.) One goal,
of course, is to prepare students for a career. When William Penn tried to start
a nursing major, the state pushed back, pointing to a glut of such programs --
and the school started a medical-diagnostics major instead.

But having a major can also help students who don't know what they want to be
when they grow up. It connects book learning to real life. It can help launch
them into college or a certificate program and avoid the epidemic of academic
drift. No wonder enrollment at William Penn has improved.

Kiara Roach, a senior, told me that she didn't care about her grades, or do very
well, until she became passionate about cooking. (As she told me this, I was
enjoying a moist pork sandwich in a teacher cafe she helps run.) Mike Rodriguez,
who one day hopes to start a heating-and-cooling business, said: ''I get bored
in class. I like standing up and working on something.'' Jacob Sobolesky, a
junior, told me: ''There's only so much you can learn from word of mouth.''

Many people in New Castle, not to mention the industrial Midwest, feel a deep
cultural connection to craftsmanship -- to making things and working with their
hands. They're not inspired by working in cubicles or comfortable offices.

At the same time, they can't simply do as previous generations did and graduate
from high school into a good job. They can't bring back yesterday's economy.
They need blue-collar skill-building to thrive.

The country has failed to provide nearly enough of that skill-building, and
we're all living with the consequences.

You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily
email newsletter until the election and invite you to subscribe.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/opinion/a-jolt-of-blue-collar-hope.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             250 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Kanye West Is Hospitalized for Exhaustion Hours After Canceling Tour

BYLINE: By JOE COSCARELLI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 433 words


The rapper Kanye West was hospitalized on Monday in Los Angeles for exhaustion,
hours after he canceled the remainder of his 2016 tour, his representative said.

The Los Angeles Police Department said that it had responded to a call in the
West Hollywood area at 1:20 p.m., but that the encounter became a ''medical
emergency'' and was handed off to the Los Angeles Fire Department. Mr. West's
representative, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive
matters, said the call had come from the rapper's doctor and that he was taken
willingly to U.C.L.A. Medical Center for evaluation. The episode was first
reported by NBC News.

The cancellation of Mr. West's ''Saint Pablo'' tour, which was scheduled to run
through the end of the year, came after a turbulent few days for the rapper.
Onstage in Sacramento on Saturday night, Mr. West delivered a long, meandering
speech, criticizing friends and associates in the music industry, including Jay
Z and Beyoncé, as he praised the communication style of President-elect Donald
J. Trump. He then ended the concert after only a few songs. His show the next
night in Los Angeles was canceled just hours before he was set to perform.

Two nights before the Sacramento show, Mr. West left some fans dismayed and
confused at a concert in San Jose, Calif., after he said he would have supported
Mr. Trump, a Republican, if he had voted in the presidential election. ''What do
you really believe?'' he asked the crowd repeatedly.

''I am putting my career, my life, my public well-standing at risk when I talk
to y'all like this,'' Mr. West said in a similar speech on Saturday. ''I've been
sitting here to give y'all my truth even at the risk of my own life. Even at the
risk of my own success, my own career. I've been sitting here to give y'all the
truth.''

As news of the tour cancellation and Mr. West's hospitalization spread, the
rapper's friends and collaborators took to social media with messages of
support. ''He's obviously going thru a tough time,'' Terrence Henderson, the rap
executive known as Punch, wrote. ''Maybe things u don't know about. When it hit
the fan are you still a fan?''

The producer and record executive 9th Wonder added: ''Been knowing the brother
upwards of 13 years. Mental healing is a serious thing, no matter what. Stay
strong Kanye West.''

Mr. West has been especially prolific this year. In addition to releasing a new
album in February, he has presented two fashion collections and performed more
than 30 shows during the initial North American leg of the tour, which ran from
August through October.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/arts/music/kanye-west-hospitalized-exhaustion.
html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             251 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Morning Agenda: Dallas Bankruptcy Threat, Italy's Crisis, Change in the Air

BYLINE: By AMIE TSANG.

Follow Amie Tsang on Twitter @amietsang .

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 682 words


The scenario: elected officials promising workers nice pensions based on wishful
thinking. Sound familiar?

It is a problem faced across the United States, and the next victim could be
Dallas. The city's mayor said it appeared to be ''walking into the fan blades''
of municipal bankruptcy.

Its pension fund for police officers and firefighters is near collapse and is
seeking an immense bailout.

How can this be when Dallas has the fastest economic growth of the 13 largest
cities in the country?

Panicked local retirees have pulled $220 million from the fund in the last six
weeks after a recommendation that they no longer be allowed to take out big
blocks of money.

Even before that, there were reports that the fund's investments were worth less
than stated.

Senator John Whitmire, a Democrat who has been in the statehouse since 1973,
recalled enthusiastically voting in 1993 for the plan that sent the pension fund
on its ill-fated quest for investment returns of 9 percent.

''We all know some of the benefits, guaranteed, were just probably never
realistic,'' he said. ''It was good while it lasted, but we've got some serious
financial problems because of it.''

Italy's Slow-Motion Crisis

Here's a puzzle for you:

1. Europe may never regain economic vigor if Italy's banks are in a state of
perpetual emergency.

2. Italy's banks cannot get healthy without economic growth.

3. Italy's economy can't grow without healthy banks.

What's the solution?

The country's banks have muddled through for years, but with the economy so
weak, bad loans have festered and good loans have deteriorated. Nearly a fifth
of loans in the system -- worth nearly $400 billion -- are classified as
troubled by the International Monetary Fund.

If this also sounds like a familiar theme, that's because it's a longstanding
problem and one that affects the rest of Europe. Italy's troubled loans
represent about 40 percent of all the bad loans within the eurozone.

But, ''banking is a symptom, not the cause,'' says Ignazio Visco, the governor
of the Bank of Italy.

He argues that the bulk of Italy's bad debt is backed by collateral and most of
the remainder has a solid chance of turning into collectible debt.

Economists, however, are unconvinced.

They say banks prop up zombie companies that will never repay their loans,
extending just enough credit to keep them current on their debts.

Change in the Air

This year's presidential election could be remembered as a pivotal moment for
the markets, which have been given the impetus to solidify deeper trends that
were already underway.

A revaluation of a wide range of assets and securities has been taking place.

But traders are making educated guesses and if they turn out to be wrong, the
market could turn upside down again.

What does this mean for most long-term investors? Broad diversification, Jeff
Sommer writes. Simple balanced portfolios of stocks and bonds have barely moved
since the election.

Against the backdrop of the swerves and shifts happening in markets, that may
count as an achievement.

Quotation of the Day

''You don't need a crazy technical background to do this job. A lot of the
training is getting really good at talking to people.''

-- Genny Lopez, a contractor handling tech support calls for Apple. The company
is unlikely to produce iPhones in the United States but it is providing
employment for working-class Americans who lack college degrees.

Coming Up

The $48 billion mega-merger between Anthem and Cigna goes to trial. The Justice
Department is challenging the deal and the drama has been heightened as the
companies have accused each other of breaching the merger agreement. Decisions
about this case and the deal between Aetna and Humana are expected before
President-elect Donald J. Trump takes office, but his administration could have
a major say if either side decided to appeal the decision.

Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, will answer questions at
the European Parliament. He is likely to be asked about the effect of Mr.
Trump's presidency on the eurozone.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/business/dealbook/dallas-bankruptcy-italy-bank
s-trump-markets.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             252 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Grievances and Grumblings, Long Before Christie's Fall in Trump's Circle

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1281 words


The critical weekend before Election Day was set to be a busy one for Gov. Chris
Christie of New Jersey; he was to campaign for Donald J. Trump in the
battleground states of New Hampshire and Pennsylvania.

Then that Friday, a federal jury convicted two of the governor's former aides in
the George Washington Bridge lane-closing trial. Mr. Christie, a Republican,
canceled the campaign events and accepted a new invitation: The night before
Election Day, he appeared on ''Charlie Rose,'' not to talk about Mr. Trump, his
party's presidential nominee, but to defend himself against weeks of damaging
testimony in the trial.

In the orbit around Mr. Trump -- which, like the one around Mr. Christie, prizes
loyalty -- the governor's moves so close to the election were seen as proof that
for all his early support of Mr. Trump, Mr. Christie was out more for himself
than for the man at the top of the ticket. He may as well have been broadcasting
that Mr. Trump was going to lose.

Three days after he won the election, President-elect Trump deposed Mr. Christie
as leader of his transition team. Many fingers pointed at Mr. Trump's
son-in-law, Jared Kushner, whose father had been sent to prison by Mr. Christie,
then the top federal prosecutor in New Jersey, on charges of tax evasion and
illegal campaign contributions.

But Mr. Christie's unceremonious dismissal was more a pileup of grievances in
the weeks before the election, according to interviews with people close to the
governor and the campaign.

No one has publicly ruled out a role for Mr. Christie in the Trump
administration; on Sunday, the governor was among those the president-elect met
with at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J. But the meeting was much shorter than
others that day, only about 20 minutes.

The two men emerged before cameras just before Mr. Christie departed, for a
10-second handshake that looked almost like a tug of war. The governor smiled
forcibly, and Mr. Trump gave no indication that he was under consideration for
any jobs -- unlike with other potential job candidates he met.

The jobs Mr. Christie wanted -- friends say he would have like to have been
White House chief of staff or attorney general -- have been assigned to others.

Mr. Christie's fall in the Trump circle was weeks in the making. There was
already grumbling, particularly from former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New
York, and from Mr. Trump's children. Mr. Christie, they believed, had gone
off-message after an ''Access Hollywood'' tape was released in which Mr. Trump
made vulgar comments about women; the governor first canceled Sunday show
appearances, then emerged on the radio the next week to call Mr. Trump's
comments ''indefensible.''

Spending on the Trump transition effort, which Mr. Christie was leading, was
already higher than what the transition team of Hillary Clinton, the Democratic
nominee, had spent, even though polls showed her winning. And some around Mr.
Trump complained that Mr. Christie was using his post to promote his own people,
including his former chief of staff and his former law partner, who were running
the team day to day, and one of his longtime supporters, Bob Grady, who had been
recommended for several positions.

The friendship between Mr. Christie and Mr. Trump, while never deep, has always
been pragmatic. And several people interviewed said they had begun to patch up
any break with a conversation on the Saturday after the president-elect removed
the governor as leader of his transition team. That continued with the meeting
on Sunday at the golf club, not far from Mr. Christie's home.

Jon Bramnick, the leader of the Republican minority in the New Jersey Assembly
and one of the governor's most steadfast supporters, said, ''Both Trump and
Christie are the type that they're loyal to their friends, and I suspect that
long term it will work out, whether it's a position now or later.''

But the Trump roller coaster has been particularly jolting for Mr. Christie.

The two men met, according to Mr. Christie, through Mr. Trump's sister, a
federal judge, shortly after Mr. Christie became United States attorney for New
Jersey in 2002. Mr. Christie liked to be around celebrity; Mr. Trump, who owned
several casinos in Atlantic City, liked to know people in charge.

As the testimony in the lane-closing trial showed, Mr. Christie began planning a
run for president in 2016 shortly after taking office in 2010. Mr. Trump's run
started out looking like more of a flirtation with the office. But in a crowded
field of Republicans, he soon occupied the position Mr. Christie expected to
take, as the tell-it-like-it-is candidate not afraid to challenge the way things
had always been done.

Mr. Christie had struggled to bounce back from the scandal since January 2014,
when a legislative subpoena revealed that his deputy chief of staff had sent an
email calling for ''some traffic problems'' in the town that was gridlocked by
the closings, to punish a mayor who had declined to endorse the governor.

After the governor failed in his attempt to make a good showing in the New
Hampshire primary contest in February, he endorsed Mr. Trump. He became the
first major establishment Republican to do so. He also alienated many friends
and financial backers and saw his poll numbers drop to a new low.

Mr. Christie was, again, pragmatic, saying it was clear to him that Mr. Trump
would be the nominee. ''If he had not been in the race, it would have been me,''
the governor said at a news conference at the time.

On the campaign trail, he endured public ridicule, when he stood obedient and
silent next to Mr. Trump on Super Tuesday on March 1. Mr. Trump himself mocked
the governor for eating too many Oreos and for abandoning his state to run for
president.

Mr. Christie publicly said he hoped to be Mr. Trump's vice-presidential nominee.
And he was said to be bitterly disappointed when Mr. Trump's children and
campaign manager prevailed on the candidate to instead choose Gov. Mike Pence of
Indiana.

Mr. Trump made Mr. Christie chief of the transition. But the governor was still
struggling with the scandal, after revelations on the stand that he had known
about the lane closings even as they were happening and did nothing to reverse
them.

On Election Day, Mr. Christie voted in the dark of early morning, a contrast to
earlier years when he invited cameras and reporters along by indicating on his
public schedule what time he would go to the polls.

Mr. Trump's surprise upset seemed to offer another chance at resurrection. Mr.
Christie appeared on the ''Today'' show, demurring on the question of whether he
wanted to be chief of staff or attorney general, saying his most important job
was the transition. ''If there's some role for me that I want to do, and that
the president-elect wants me to do,'' he said, ''we've known each other for 14
years -- we'll talk.''

The next day, Mr. Trump announced that Mr. Christie would no longer lead the
transition.

The governor has now given signals that he is planning to serve out his term in
New Jersey. On Monday, he held his first cabinet meeting in a long time. Late on
Wednesday afternoon, he had bumped his lieutenant governor, Kim Guadagno, as the
keynote speaker at an annual statewide convention of mayors in Atlantic City,
which he has skipped since 2011.

Appearing the next day -- Lieutenant Governor Guadagno's name was still on the
programs -- Mr. Christie said, ''I have no reason to believe that I will do
anything other than serve out my full term as governor and turn the keys of the
office over to whoever you select in November of 2017 to replace me.''

''I've had a pretty good run,'' he added.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/nyregion/grievances-and-grumblings-long-before
-chris-christies-fall-in-donald-trumps-circle.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Chris Christie departed after meeting with President-elect
Donald J. Trump at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J., on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             253 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Voting Rights in the Age of Trump

BYLINE: By ARI BERMAN.

Ari Berman, a senior contributing writer for The Nation, is the author of ''Give
Us the Ballot: The Modern Struggle for Voting Rights in America.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 925 words


In June 2013, the Supreme Court ruled in Shelby County v. Holder that states
with a long history of racial discrimination no longer needed to approve any
proposed changes to their voting procedures with the federal government, as had
long been required under the Voting Rights Act. That meant this year's
presidential election was the first in 50 years without the full protections of
the act.

What was the result? Fourteen states had new voting restrictions in effect in
2016, including strict voter ID laws, fewer opportunities for early voting and
reductions in the number of polling places. These restrictions depressed turnout
in key states like Wisconsin, particularly among black voters.

Among advocates for voting rights, there was hope that a Hillary Clinton
presidency and Democratic control of Congress would help reverse this situation.
But with Republicans now in control of the presidency, Congress and two-thirds
of state legislative chambers, the attack on voting rights is almost certainly
going to get much worse.

A grave danger comes from the Supreme Court. If Donald J. Trump appoints a
justice in the mold of Antonin Scalia to fill the current vacancy, as he has
pledged to do, there could be five votes to further gut the Voting Rights Act.
Conservatives will target Section 2 of the law, which prohibits voting practices
that discriminate on the basis of race or color. (This provision was
successfully used to challenge voting restrictions in North Carolina and Texas
this year.)

When the current chief justice of the Supreme Court, John G. Roberts Jr., was a
lawyer in the Justice Department in the early 1980s, he led a charge against
Section 2. He argued in a 1981 memo that the provision should block only those
voting laws that were found to be intentionally discriminatory. This was a much
higher standard (and in practice, much more difficult to establish) than showing
that a voting law had a discriminatory outcome. ''Violations of Section 2 should
not be made too easy to prove,'' Mr. Roberts wrote. If the Supreme Court were to
adopt Mr. Roberts's 1981 position today, the country's most important civil
rights law would be effectively dead.

A new challenge to the Voting Rights Act could come before the court soon.
Briefs are due later this month in North Carolina's appeal of a decision by the
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit that struck down voting restrictions in
the state. Four days after Mr. Trump's inauguration, a federal court in Texas
will consider whether the state's voter ID law was unconstitutional. If Congress
were to quickly confirm a Trump nominee to the Supreme Court, its conservative
justices could easily reinstate such voting restrictions.

Mr. Trump's Justice Department will also present a severe threat to voting
rights. It could choose not to vigorously enforce the Voting Rights Act, instead
pressing states to take more aggressive action to combat alleged voter fraud.
This could include purging voter rolls and starting investigations into
voter-registration organizations. As a United States attorney in the 1980s, Jeff
Sessions, Mr. Trump's choice for attorney general, charged black civil rights
activists in Alabama with voter fraud. (They were acquitted.) He has called the
Voting Rights Act "a piece of intrusive legislation,'' and supported the Supreme
Court's Shelby decision, saying ''if you go to Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina,
people aren't being denied the vote because of the color of their skin.''

Things are hardly better at the state level. After the 2016 election,
Republicans control both legislative chambers and the governor's office in half
the states (compared with only six such states controlled by Democrats). They
are likely to intensify efforts to pass new voting restrictions in those states.
Voters in Missouri approved a constitutional amendment on Election Day requiring
a government-issued photo ID to cast a ballot. Republicans in Wisconsin have
vowed to cut early voting following high early-voting turnout in heavily
Democratic cities like Madison and Milwaukee.

Republicans in Congress could also jump into the fray. Senator Ted Cruz has
introduced legislation to require proof of citizenship such as a passport or a
birth certificate to vote in federal elections. Mandating a government-issued
photo ID for federal elections -- which disproportionately burdens low-income
voters and minorities -- is another top conservative priority. Kevin D.
Williamson of National Review has called on Congress to repeal the 1993 National
Voter Registration Act, which allows voters to register at the Department of
Motor Vehicles and other public agencies.

The voting-rights landscape may look bleak, but that is no reason to give up the
fight. Things can change quickly if advocates in enough states build support for
reform. In 2010, for example, only six states offered online voter registration.
Today, 31 states do, and those measures enjoy broad bipartisan support.
(Momentum is now also building for automatic voting registration, which Oregon
enacted this year.)

The Voting Rights Act once enjoyed bipartisan support, but that consensus has
collapsed. Recent elections illustrate that when more people vote, Democrats
tend to do better, which is why Republicans want to restrict access to the
ballot. After this year, the party that claimed the election was rigged will be
the one doing the real rigging.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/opinion/voting-rights-in-the-age-of-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             254 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Facebook, Censorship Tool Could Reopen a Door to China

BYLINE: By MIKE ISAAC; Paul Mozur contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, has cultivated
relationships with China's leaders, including President Xi Jinping. He has paid
multiple visits to the country to meet its top internet executives. He has made
an effort to learn Mandarin.

Inside Facebook, the work to enter China runs far deeper.

The social network has quietly developed software to suppress posts from
appearing in people's news feeds in specific geographic areas, according to
three current and former Facebook employees, who asked for anonymity because the
tool is confidential. The feature was created to help Facebook get into China, a
market where the social network has been blocked, these people said. Mr.
Zuckerberg has supported and defended the effort, the people added.

Facebook has restricted content in other countries before, such as Pakistan,
Russia and Turkey, in keeping with the typical practice of American internet
companies that generally comply with government requests to block certain
content after it is posted. Facebook blocked roughly 55,000 pieces of content in
about 20 countries between July 2015 and December 2015, for example. But the new
feature takes that a step further by preventing content from appearing in feeds
in China in the first place.

Facebook does not intend to suppress the posts itself. Instead, it would offer
the software to enable a third party -- in this case, most likely a partner
Chinese company -- to monitor popular stories and topics that bubble up as users
share them across the social network, the people said. Facebook's partner would
then have full control to decide whether those posts should show up in users'
feeds.

The current and former Facebook employees caution that the software is one of
many ideas the company has discussed with respect to entering China and, like
many experiments inside Facebook, it may never see the light of day. The
feature, whose code is visible to engineers inside the company, has so far gone
unused, and there is no indication that Facebook has offered it to the
authorities in China.

But the project illustrates the extent to which Facebook may be willing to
compromise one of its core mission statements, ''to make the world more open and
connected,'' to gain access to a market of 1.4 billion Chinese people. Even as
Facebook faces pressure to continue growing -- Mr. Zuckerberg has often asked
where the company's next billion users will come from -- China has been cordoned
off to the social network since 2009 because of the government's strict rules
around censorship of user content.

The suppression software has been contentious within Facebook, which is
separately grappling with what should or should not be shown to its users after
the American presidential election's unexpected outcome spurred questions over
fake news on the social network. Several employees who were working on the
project have left Facebook after expressing misgivings about it, according to
the current and former employees.

A Facebook spokeswoman said in a statement, ''We have long said that we are
interested in China, and are spending time understanding and learning more about
the country.'' She added that the company had made no decisions on its approach
into China.

Facebook's tricky position underscores the difficulties that many American
internet companies have had gaining access to China. For years, companies like
Google and Twitter have been blocked there for refusing to yield to the
government's demands around censorship. In 2010, Google said it was directing
users of its search engine in China to its service in Hong Kong, because of
censorship and intrusion from hackers. Other companies, like the professional
social networking service LinkedIn, agreed to censor some content on their
platforms in China.

The current climate for internet companies in China may not help Facebook. In
August, the ride-hailing giant Uber gave up an expensive battle to crack the
Chinese market, selling its Chinese business to an incumbent rival, Didi
Chuxing. More broadly, China has streamlined and tightened its controls over the
internet under President Xi, targeting influential social media celebrities and
adding new reviews to popular online video sites.

Still, some officials responsible for China's tech policy have been willing to
entertain the idea of Facebook's operating in the country. It would legitimize
China's strict style of internet governance, and if done according to official
standards, would enable easy tracking of political opinions deemed problematic.
Even so, resistance remains at the top levels of Chinese leadership.

Some analysts have said Facebook's best option is to follow a model laid out by
other internet companies and cooperate with a local company or investor. Finding
a partner -- and potentially allowing it to own a majority stake in Facebook's
China operation -- would take the burden of censorship and surveillance off the
Silicon Valley company. It would also let Facebook rely on a local company's
government connections and experience to deal with the difficult task of
communicating with Beijing.

Facebook and Chinese officials have had intermittent talks in the last few years
about the social network's entering the market, according to employees who were
involved in the discussions, though the two sides have been unable to reach a
compromise.

Facebook currently sells advertising for some Chinese businesses from its Hong
Kong office. Among its customers are state-media sites that act as the
propaganda arm of the Chinese government, and that operate official accounts
where they post articles. Chinese citizens who wish to gain access to Facebook
must tunnel in using a technology known as a virtual private network, or VPN.

It's unclear when the suppression tool originated, but the project picked up
momentum in the last year, as engineers were plucked from other parts of
Facebook to work on the effort, the current and former employees said. The
project was led by Vaughan Smith, a vice president for mobile, corporate and
business development at Facebook, they said. Like Mr. Zuckerberg, Mr. Smith
speaks a smattering of Mandarin.

Unveiling a new censorship tool in China could lead to more demands to suppress
content from other countries. The fake-news problem, which has hit countries
across the globe, has already led some governments to use the issue as an excuse
to target sites of political rivals, or shut down social media sites altogether.

Over the summer, several Facebook employees who were working on the suppression
tool left the company, the current and former employees said. Internally, so
many employees asked about the project and its ambitions on an internal forum
that, in July, it became a topic at one of Facebook's weekly Friday afternoon
question-and-answer sessions.

Mr. Zuckerberg was at the event and answered a question from the audience about
the tool. He told the gathering that Facebook's China plans were nascent. But he
also struck a pragmatic tone about the future, according to employees who
attended the session.

''It's better for Facebook to be a part of enabling conversation, even if it's
not yet the full conversation,'' Mr. Zuckerberg said, according to employees.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/technology/facebook-censorship-tool-china.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Xi Jinping of China, center, with Mark Zuckerberg,
right, the chief executive of Facebook, and Lu Wei, then China's Internet czar,
in a 2015 gathering in Redmond, Wash. (POOL PHOTO BY TED S. WARREN) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             255 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Book Publishers Scramble to Make Sense of an Election Few Saw Going to Trump

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA ALTER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1027 words


In the summer of 2015, Katy Tur, a London-based foreign correspondent for NBC
News, got a surprising offer from the network's head of news coverage. Would she
like to cover Donald J. Trump's presidential campaign? He assured her that it
would be a brief assignment -- six weeks at the most.

It was one of many assumptions about Mr. Trump's candidacy that proved to be
wildly off-base. Ms. Tur was on the campaign trail for 18 months, living out of
a suitcase and subsisting on hard-boiled eggs, packets of peanut butter and
fistfuls of Cheez-Its. She became a frequent target of Mr. Trump on Twitter and
during his rallies, where he accused her of dishonesty and called her a
''third-rate reporter,'' and she received death threats from his supporters. On
election night, expecting to cover his defeat, she instead reported on his
victory speech.

Ms. Tur will recount those experiences in a book, ''Unbelievable,'' which will
also explore Mr. Trump's unexpected rise through the Republican ranks and his
ascension to the presidency.

Ms. Tur's memoir, which will be published by Dey Street Books next year, is part
of a coming deluge of postelection analysis, as agents, editors and publishers
race to acquire books that explain the forces that propelled Mr. Trump to
victory and assess the future of American politics after a caustic and
polarizing election. It is a challenging task, made all the more daunting by the
fact that few in the publishing world foresaw Mr. Trump's rise.

''As book publishers, we have a responsibility to take two steps back from the
nowness of it all and find out what's going to be relevant five years from
now,'' said Julia Cheiffetz, executive editor of Dey Street Books. ''It's one of
the most extraordinary moments in American history.''

Some political books and memoirs that were already in the works before Election
Day will take on new resonance. Random House recently acquired a memoir by Khizr
Khan, the Pakistani-American Gold Star father who became a prominent surrogate
for Hillary Clinton after his stirring speech at the Democratic National
Convention. His memoir, which is scheduled to be published in 2017, will tell
the story of the Khans' move from Pakistan to America; the loss of their son, a
captain in the Army; and their unexpected role in a heated national debate about
immigration, patriotism and religious diversity.

''Their story of what it's like to be a Muslim in America, it feels even more
pertinent after the election results,'' said Ben Greenberg, Random House's
executive editor.

Other books will examine Mr. Trump's populist appeal and how he capitalized on
voters' economic and social anxiety, or will try to place the Trump phenomenon
within a growing wave of populist and nationalist movements. The journalist
David Neiwert's ''Militialand USA: The Rise of the Radical Right in the Age of
Trump,'' to be published by Verso, will examine how Mr. Trump's campaign helped
extreme right-wing voices find a place in the mainstream. This month, Atlantic
Books acquired the BBC broadcaster Steve Richards's ''The Rise of the Outsiders:
How the Anti-Establishment Is on the March,'' which will look at the populist
sentiments that drove Trump voters and the movement in Britain to exit the
European Union.

A normal election year brings a barrage of books from campaign reporters,
political pundits and academics, ranging from autopsies of the inner workings of
a campaign to wonkier works that explore policies and social issues. There have
been some breakout campaign books in recent years, including ''Game Change'' --
a juicy post-mortem of the 2008 election by the political reporters John
Heilemann and Mark Halperin, which sold nearly 500,000 print copies according to
Nielsen -- and books by Obama campaign insiders like David Plouffe and David
Axelrod. And an outgoing administration typically produces a flood of memoirs
from cabinet members, advisers and, of course, the president and first lady.

But this was far from a normal election year. Like many in the media, publishing
industry executives were caught off-guard by the results on Nov. 8, and now find
themselves scrambling.

''People are curious, and people are baffled, and from the point of view of a
publisher that's both an opportunity and a hurdle, because you need to find a
way to explain what happened,'' said Peter Osnos, founder of the publishing
imprint PublicAffairs, who has worked on books by Barack Obama, Bill Clinton and
Jimmy Carter. ''The big question is who will emerge with something that's
compelling, original, revelatory and provocative.''

Some publishers say there's little appetite for the traditional blow-by-blow
account of a contentious campaign that was already the subject of almost nonstop
daily news coverage. (Mr. Halperin and Mr. Heilemann declined to comment on
whether they planned to write a book about the 2016 election.)

''It was such an exhausting campaign, and it was so exhaustively covered that
you would really have to come at it in a different way,'' said John Sterling, an
editor at large at Macmillan.

There's an evident hunger among readers for thoughtful and nuanced explanations
of how Mr. Trump rode a tide of discontent among white working-class voters to
the presidency. Immediately after the election, books like J. D. Vance's
''Hillbilly Elegy'' and George Packer's ''The Unwinding,'' which both examine
the country's growing cultural and political divisions and the grievances of the
white working class, shot up on Amazon's best-seller lists. Mr. Vance's book,
which has 570,000 copies in print, sold more than 19,000 copies in the week
ending Nov. 13, according to Nielsen. Several editors and publishers said they
were eager to acquire more narrative nonfiction books like ''Hillbilly Elegy''
that take a broader view of cultural and economic forces.

Some see an opportunity for writers and publishers to seize on a moment of
uncertainty and take stock of the future of the Democratic and Republican
parties.

''As surprising as the election was, as gobsmacked as most people were by the
results of it, the really interesting part starts now,'' Mr. Sterling said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/business/media/book-publishers-scramble-to-mak
e-sense-of-trumps-rise-to-victory.html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katy Tur, who covered Donald Trump's campaign for NBC News, will
explore Mr. Trump's rise in the memoir ''Unbelievable.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP
SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             256 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump Pulls Back but Still Defies the Conventions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR, JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS and MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words


President-elect Donald J. Trump on Tuesday tempered some of his most extreme
campaign promises, dropping his vow to jail Hillary Clinton, expressing doubt
about the value of torturing terrorism suspects and pledging to have an open
mind about climate change.

But in a wide-ranging hourlong interview with reporters and editors at The New
York Times -- which was scheduled, canceled and then reinstated after a dispute
over the ground rules -- Mr. Trump was unapologetic about flouting some of the
traditional ethical and political conventions that have long shaped the American
presidency.

He said he had no legal obligation to establish boundaries between his business
empire and his White House, conceding that the Trump brand ''is certainly a
hotter brand than it was before.'' Still, he said he would try to figure out a
way to insulate himself from his businesses, which would be run by his children.

He defended Stephen K. Bannon, his chief strategist, against charges of racism,
calling him a ''decent guy.'' And he mocked Republicans who had failed to
support him in his unorthodox presidential campaign.

In the midday meeting in the 16th-floor boardroom of The Times's publisher,
Arthur Sulzberger Jr., Mr. Trump seemed confident even as he said he was awed by
his new job. ''It is a very overwhelming job, but I'm not overwhelmed by it,''
he said.

He displayed a jumble of impulses, many of them conflicting. He was magnanimous
toward Mrs. Clinton, but boastful about his victory. He was open-minded about
some of his positions, uncompromising about others.

The interview demonstrated the volatility in Mr. Trump's positions.

He said he had no interest in pressing for Mrs. Clinton's prosecution over her
use of a private email server or for financial acts committed by the Clinton
Foundation. ''I don't want to hurt the Clintons, I really don't,'' he said.

On the issue of torture, Mr. Trump suggested he had changed his mind about the
value of waterboarding after talking with James N. Mattis, a retired Marine
Corps general, who headed the United States Central Command.

''He said, 'I've never found it to be useful,''' Mr. Trump said. He added that
Mr. Mattis found more value in building trust and rewarding cooperation with
terrorism suspects: '''Give me a pack of cigarettes and a couple of beers, and
I'll do better.'''

''I was very impressed by that answer,'' Mr. Trump said.

Torture, he said, is ''not going to make the kind of a difference that a lot of
people are thinking.''

Mr. Trump repeated that Mr. Mattis was being ''seriously, seriously considered''
to be secretary of defense. ''I think it's time, maybe, for a general,'' he
said.

On climate change, Mr. Trump refused to repeat his promise to abandon the
international climate accord reached last year in Paris, saying, ''I'm looking
at it very closely.'' Despite the recent appointment to his transition team of a
fierce critic of the Paris accords, Mr. Trump said that ''I have an open mind to
it'' and that clean air and ''crystal clear water'' were vitally important.

He held out assurances that he did not intend to embrace extremist positions in
some areas. He vigorously denounced a white nationalist conference last weekend
in Washington, where attendees gave the Nazi salute and criticized Jews.

Asked about his antagonism with the news media and his vow to toughen libel
laws, Mr. Trump offered no specifics but told the group, ''I think you'll be
happy.''

Despite his frequent attacks against what he has dubbed the ''failing New York
Times,'' Mr. Trump seemed to go out of his way to praise the institution, which
he called ''a great, great American jewel, world jewel.'' He did, however, say
he believed The Times had been too tough on him during the campaign.

Pressed to respond to criticism in other areas, he was defiant. He declared that
''the law's totally on my side'' when it comes to questions about conflict of
interest and ethics laws. ''The president can't have a conflict of interest,''
he said.

He said it would be extremely difficult to sell off his businesses because they
are real estate holdings. He said that he would ''like to do something'' and
create some kind of arrangement to separate his businesses from his work in
government. He noted that he had turned over the management of his businesses to
his children, which ethics lawyers say is not sufficient to prevent conflicts of
interest.

He insisted that he could still invite business partners into the White House
for grip-and-grin photographs. He said that critics were pressuring him to go
beyond what he was willing to do, including distancing himself from his children
while they run his businesses.

''If it were up to some people,'' he said, ''I would never, ever see my daughter
Ivanka again.''

Mr. Trump did not dispute reports that he had used a meeting last week with
Nigel Farage, the U.K. Independence Party leader, to raise his opposition to
offshore wind farms. Mr. Trump has long complained that wind farms would mar the
view from his golf course in Aberdeenshire, Scotland.

''I might have brought it up,'' Mr. Trump said, then argued he had done so
because of policy concerns about wind farms rather than any personal interest.

Mr. Trump rejected the idea that he was bound by federal antinepotism laws from
installing his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, in a White House job. But he said he
would want to avoid the appearance of a conflict and might instead seek to make
Mr. Kushner a special envoy charged with brokering peace in the Middle East.

''The president of the United States is allowed to have whatever conflicts he or
she wants, but I don't want to do that,'' Mr. Trump said. But he said that Mr.
Kushner, who is an observant Jew, ''could be very helpful'' in reconciling the
longstanding dispute between the Israelis and the Palestinians.

''I would love to be able to be the one that made peace with Israel and the
Palestinians,'' Mr. Trump said, adding that Mr. Kushner ''would be very good at
it'' and that ''he knows the region.''

''A lot of people tell me, really great people tell me, that it's impossible --
you can't do it,'' Mr. Trump added. ''I disagree. I think you can make peace.''

''I have reason to believe I can do it,'' he added.

Mr. Trump spoke only in general terms about foreign policy. He said the United
States should not ''be a nation builder,'' repeated his line from the campaign
that fighting the war in Iraq was ''one of the great mistakes in the history of
our country,'' and said he has some ''very definitive'' and ''strong ideas''
about how to deal with the violent civil war raging in Syria. He declined to say
what those ideas are despite several requests to do so.

''We have to end that craziness that's going on in Syria,'' he said.

The president-elect said that he had talked with President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia since winning the election, but he did not elaborate. He said it would be
''nice'' if he and Mr. Putin could get along, but he rejected the idea that any
warming of relations would be called a ''reset,'' noting the criticism that Mrs.
Clinton received after her attempts at bettering relations between the countries
failed.

''I wouldn't use that term after what happened,'' Mr. Trump said.

Mr. Trump made a forceful defense of Mr. Bannon, whom he named as his chief
strategist and who has drawn charges of racism and anti-Semitism. This summer,
Mr. Bannon called Breitbart News, the website he led, ''the platform for the
alt-right,'' a white nationalist movement.

Mr. Trump said Mr. Bannon had been dismayed at the reaction to his hiring.

''I've known Steve Bannon a long time. If I thought he was a racist or
alt-right,'' he said, ''I wouldn't even think about hiring him.''

Mr. Trump added: ''I think he's having a hard time with it because it's not him.
I think he's been treated very unfairly.''

He also defended Breitbart, which has carried racist and anti-Semitic content,
saying it was no different from The Times, only ''much more conservative.''

Mr. Trump said he hoped to develop a ''great long-term relationship'' with
President Obama, with whom he said he had an unexpected rapport. ''I really
liked him a lot, and I am a little bit surprised that I am telling you that I
really liked him a lot,'' he said.

And Mr. Trump gloated about defying the polls and the expectations of his own
party to win the presidency, and boasted of how he had taken his revenge on
Republicans who kept him at a distance and then lost their own races.

He said that one of them, Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, would ''love to
have a job in the administration.''

''I said, 'No, thank you,''' Mr. Trump said of Ms. Ayotte, who lost her Senate
seat to Gov. Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire. ''She refused to vote for me.''

He also criticized Representative Joe Heck of Nevada, who vacillated over
supporting Mr. Trump after an 11-year-old recording surfaced in which Mr. Trump
bragged in lewd terms about grabbing women without their consent.

''He went down like a lead balloon,'' Mr. Trump said of Mr. Heck. ''I said, 'Off
the record, I hope you lose.'''

He said Republican leaders felt indebted to him for his surprise victory.

''Right now,'' Mr. Trump said, ''they're in love with me.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/us/politics/donald-trump-visit.html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President-elect Donald J. Trump in The New York Times's
building after an interview with reporters and editors on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Donald J. Trump defended Stephen K. Bannon, his chief strategist, against
charges of racism, calling him a ''decent guy.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW
ANGERER/GETTY IMAGES) (A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             257 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Not Your Grandmother's Wisconsin

BYLINE: By EMMA ROLLER.

Emma Roller (@EmmaRoller) covered the 2016 campaign as a contributing opinion
writer.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1385 words


Milwaukee -- I love telling people I'm from Wisconsin. Maybe it's my defense
mechanism for when people accuse me of being a coastal elite, out of touch with
Real America. I like fulfilling all the Wisconsin stereotypes. I love cheese and
cheese curds, of course. I love our sports teams out of a vague sense of
homerism. And my accent (all hard A's) comes out in full force after ah coupl'ah
beers.

Mostly I love my grandma, who has called Wisconsin home for 88 years. Her
parents immigrated to Wisconsin from Germany, and she started public school
without knowing a word of English. She forgot most of the German her parents
taught her years ago, but taught me the words to the ''Liechtensteiner Polka''
that we would sometimes hear when my family would go to a Friday night fish fry.

Up until Nov. 8, I still believed my state's moral baseline bent toward empathy.
The Wisconsin I thought I knew, where I lived for 21 years, was filled with
complex but fundamentally decent people who recognized that everyone is
deserving of respect and could disagree without being disagreeable. The state
did elect Scott Walker as governor in 2010, and the Republican-led legislature
gutted public-sector unions, setting off huge protests in the Capitol. But I
didn't think that state would vote for Donald J. Trump, turning its 10 electoral
votes to a Republican for the first time since 1984. (I mean, come on, we even
voted for Dukakis.)

As much as Mr. Trump won the election in Wisconsin, Hillary Clinton lost it. Her
campaign, which prided itself on employing all the data wizards and ground game
gurus money can buy, did not do nearly enough to lock down the upper Midwest,
particularly Wisconsin and Michigan, and instead treated those states as a
given.

Paul Soglin is the mayor of Madison, Wisconsin's capital city, in cerulean Dane
County. He supported Senator Bernie Sanders in the Democratic primary, and said
he talked at least once a week with a field organizer from the Sanders campaign
during the primary. But once Mrs. Clinton locked up the nomination, it was radio
silence from the Clinton campaign.

''Since I first held elected office in the early '70s, virtually every
presidential election, I've been contacted, either by the candidate or by a
staffer,'' he told me. ''I'm not saying this to say I'm important. But the point
is, not only wasn't she in the state, but I never got a call, a contact,
anything after the primary.''

President Obama, by contrast, made two campaign stops in Madison during the 2012
election, including a huge rally with Bruce Springsteen on the Monday before
Election Day.

Mr. Soglin's frustration with the Clinton campaign was apparent.

''I don't understand the strategy. I've never seen an explanation for it, other
than assuming that they wanted not just a victory, but a smashing victory --
actually, the kind that Donald Trump had,'' he said.

Wisconsin's voter turnout in 2016 was the lowest it's been in 20 years. Roughly
40,000 fewer Democrats voted in Milwaukee County this year than did in 2012.

The drop in turnout in Milwaukee County might be partially attributed to a voter
identification law in the state. In 2014, a federal judge found that roughly
300,000 registered voters in Wisconsin lacked the necessary photo ID card to
vote under the new law, and a ''substantial number'' of those voters were low
income. However, election watchers have said the voter ID law alone could not
have flipped the state in Mr. Trump's favor.

Mrs. Clinton did not visit Wisconsin once after the Democratic National
Convention in July. Neither did President Obama or Michelle Obama. Mr. Sanders
made multiple trips to the state on behalf of Mrs. Clinton, but that was not
enough to gin up voters' enthusiasm.

Like most of the country, my friends and family in Wisconsin were shocked that
Mr. Trump won the state, and the election. My mom says she's still in denial; my
dad has progressed comfortably to anger. My grandma, though, has been coping
with the election result with characteristic wit. ''After listening to Donald
Trump speeches about hate, I was convinced it's O.K. to hate,'' she emailed me.
''Therefore, I hate Donald Trump.''

Throughout the general election, the Clinton campaign's surrogates appeared
reassured to the point of hubris that they would be able to convert moderate
Republican voters in Midwestern suburbs.

''For every blue-collar Democrat we lose in western Pennsylvania, we will pick
up two moderate Republicans in the suburbs in Philadelphia, and you can repeat
that in Ohio and Illinois and Wisconsin,'' New York Senator Chuck Schumer said
in July.

This line of thinking was not just wrong, but disastrously so. In 2008, Barack
Obama won 59 of Wisconsin's 72 counties. This year, 59 counties voted for Donald
Trump. Republicans successfully built on the map that helped to elect Mr. Walker
to the governor's mansion while the Clinton campaign was looking to run up the
score in states like Arizona and Georgia.

A triumvirate of Wisconsin Republicans also helped elect Mr. Trump, both
actively and passively. First, there is Reince Priebus, who worked his way up
from Republican politics in Wisconsin to head the Republican National Committee,
and now, to serve as Mr. Trump's chief of staff. Then there is House Speaker
Paul D. Ryan, who now has a historic opportunity to pass his agenda through
Congress. Finally, Mr. Walker, recovered from his own failed presidential
campaign, will now oversee the Republican Governors Association.

Charlie Sykes is a longtime radio host in Milwaukee, who became a voice on the
right for the #NeverTrump movement. After 23 years on the air, he will retire
from his radio show this year. Along with being a vocal opponent of the Trump
campaign, he has taken on a new role as chief apologizer for right-wing media.

He expressed frustration with his listenership, who, he said, had gradually
grown immune to any inconvenient fact presented to them. While he read news from
The Washington Post, Politico and National Review throughout the election, his
audience seemed to glean most of its news from Fox News, talk radio and their
Facebook feeds.

On his radio program last week, Mr. Sykes played a sound bite of Adm. Michael S.
Rogers, current head of the National Security Agency, suggesting the Russian
government had made a ''conscious effort'' to sway the election in Mr. Trump's
favor. Mr. Sykes asked his listeners, ''Can we all agree that this is a big deal
and we ought to do something about it?''

He opened the phone lines, and the first call was Steve from Waukesha, who said:
''I don't believe it. I don't believe any of it.''

Mr. Sykes sighed. ''You can't break through that,'' he said. ''It is way harder
to knock that stuff down than you would think.''

He says he is disappointed, but not surprised, to see conservative media falling
in line and supporting Mr. Trump's cabinet picks.

''This is the monster we've created,'' he said. ''All of the worst elements of
the conservative media have now been empowered. Every one of them has got a
strut. Alex Jones now has a pipeline to the White House. I mean, think about
this!''

Mr. Sykes spent half of 2016 arguing that Wisconsin conservatism was
fundamentally incompatible with what Mr. Trump was offering his party.

''Wisconsin conservatism has been distinctive, I think, in being aggressive but
substantive, and very, very policy-oriented, and also proving that you can do
things and be rewarded by the electorate,'' he said.

Mr. Trump has certainly been aggressive if not very policy-oriented, and he has
proved that you can run an atavistic, substance-free campaign and still win --
even in the mild-mannered Midwest.

The Wisconsinites I know don't like to argue about politics in general, and
certainly not at the Thanksgiving table. We are creatures of habit; we don't
like to make ourselves or others uncomfortable; we loathe confrontation. But
this year seems to bring with it a moral imperative to have uncomfortable
conversations about the very real stakes of this election. This year we may need
to break the habit, worry less about being nice and talk more about what it
means to be decent.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/opinion/campaign-stops/not-your-grandmothers-w
isconsin.html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             258 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Donald Trump Drops Threat of New Hillary Clinton Investigation

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS and MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Reporting was
contributed by Michael S. Schmidt, Jeremy W. Peters, Adam Goldman, Matt Apuzzo,
Eric Lichtblau and Adam Liptak.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words


President-elect Donald J. Trump said on Tuesday that he had no intention of
pressing for an investigation into Hillary Clinton's use of a private email
server or the financial operations of her family's foundation, dropping the
''lock her up'' pledge that became a rallying cry for his campaign for the White
House.

Mr. Trump, who branded his rival ''Crooked Hillary'' and said she would go to
jail if he were president, said in an interview with reporters and editors at
The New York Times that he was no longer interested in pursuing Mrs. Clinton, in
part because he wanted to heal the wounds of a divisive campaign.

''I don't want to hurt the Clintons, I really don't,'' Mr. Trump said during the
interview. ''She went through a lot and suffered greatly in many different ways,
and I am not looking to hurt them at all. The campaign was vicious.''

His reversal on prosecuting Mrs. Clinton was particularly striking given the
outsize role the issue played during the presidential campaign, in which her use
of a private email server as secretary of state became a prominent theme, and
one she has blamed for her loss to Mr. Trump.

Mr. Trump said he wanted to ''move forward'' from the subject. Without
elaborating, he said that ''we'll have people that do things,'' perhaps a
reference to the F.B.I. or Republicans who might continue to press for
prosecutions in the email or foundation cases. But the president-elect made
clear that he would not seek to pursue an investigation himself nor make it a
priority after he assumes office.

The decision angered some of his most fervent supporters, who immediately
criticized his seeming change of heart.

''Broken Promise,'' blared the headline on Breitbart News, a conservative news
site that has strongly backed Mr. Trump.

''It's not something that I feel very strongly about,'' Mr. Trump said at The
Times, unlike health care or immigration. ''This has been a very painful period
of time.''

Clinton aides did not respond to a request for comment about Mr. Trump's
remarks.

During their second debate, Mr. Trump turned to Mrs. Clinton and vowed, ''If I
win, I am going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to
look into your situation, because there's never been so many lies, so much
deception.''

After Mr. Trump's turnaround on Tuesday, the conservative commentator Ann
Coulter, one of his staunchest supporters during the campaign, suggested on
Twitter that Mr. Trump was overstepping his role.

''Whoa! I thought we elected @realDonaldTrump president,'' she wrote. ''Did we
make him the FBI, & DOJ? His job is to pick those guys, not do their jobs.''

Tom Fitton, president of Judicial Watch, a conservative advocacy group that has
been a relentless critic of Mrs. Clinton, said on Tuesday that it would be a
mistake for Mr. Trump to drop the threat of appointing a special counsel to look
into her email use.

Mr. Fitton said that although the F.B.I. had already investigated the matter
twice, that inquiry was flawed. His group has gained access to thousands of
pages of Mrs. Clinton's State Department emails through lawsuits and is pressing
its case in court even after her defeat.

Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican who leads the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee, said last week on Fox News that his committee
would continue to investigate the matter as well because ''we've got to get to
the truth.'' Mr. Chaffetz's office said on Tuesday he was unavailable for
comment about Mr. Trump's statements.

Although the F.B.I.'s email investigation is closed, the agency still has an
open inquiry into the Clinton Foundation. That inquiry began after the 2015
publication of ''Clinton Cash,'' a book by Peter Schweizer that asserted that
some foreign entities had given money to the foundation in return for State
Department favors when Mrs. Clinton was there. The Clintons have denied the
assertions.

The F.B.I. and Justice Department conduct their criminal investigations largely
independently from the White House, so Mr. Trump cannot tell agents to close
their cases. A president ordering the F.B.I. to stop a politically sensitive
case would be a major scandal.

''It does seem like an extraordinary breach of protocol for him to get involved
in that decision,'' Glen A. Kopp, a former federal prosecutor in New York, said
of the president-elect. ''I know of no recent circumstances when the president
ordered an attorney general not to pursue a criminal matter.''

If, as president, Mr. Trump were to order the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey,
to close the foundation inquiry, Mr. Comey could choose to rebuff him. F.B.I.
directors are given 10-year terms to insulate them from political pressure, but
the president still has the power to fire a director, as President Bill Clinton
did with William S. Sessions in 1993 after a Justice Department investigation
uncovered ethical abuses by Mr. Sessions.

In an interview last week with CBS News's ''60 Minutes,'' Mr. Trump said he had
not yet decided whether to dismiss Mr. Comey over his handling of the Clinton
email investigation, saying the director ''may have had very good reasons for
doing what he did.''

As a practical matter, though, Mr. Trump's remarks will probably have little
impact. The investigation into Mrs. Clinton's emails is already closed and,
while the one into her family's foundation remains open, senior F.B.I. officials
and career Justice Department officials have said there is little evidence
justifying moving forward with a case. When the case comes up for review, senior
agents and prosecutors may decide to shut it down, but it will not be because of
Mr. Trump's remarks.

While the president-elect's decision is likely to frustrate investigators at the
F.B.I., who are fiercely protective of their independence to follow the facts
they uncover, some legal experts applauded Mr. Trump's decision to not pursue
investigations into Mrs. Clinton's emails or her family foundation.

Rory K. Little, a professor at the University of California Hastings College of
the Law, said he was inclined to support both moves by Mr. Trump. A decision to
shut down an investigation, he said, ''is not out of step with constitutional
constraints,'' as the Constitution gives the president the power to issue
pardons for federal crimes.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/us/politics/donald-trump-hillary-clinton-inves
tigation.html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Clinton at a Children's Defense Fund event in Washington
on Nov. 16. Donald J. Trump said he would not seek to prosecute her, in part to
heal the wounds of a divisive campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL DRAGO/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             259 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump's Victory Emboldens Gun Advocates

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and MITCH SMITH; Manny Fernandez reported from
Houston, and Mitch Smith from Chicago.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1300 words


HOUSTON -- Before the election, gun rights activists were so worried Hillary
Clinton would win the presidency that some of them bought extra ammunition and
guns, fearing a crackdown on certain weapons, bullets and magazines.

They're not worried now. Instead, since the election of Donald J. Trump, gun
advocates have been rejoicing, crowing about their political clout and plotting
ways to eliminate many remaining curbs on gun ownership and use as they await
one of the most vocal pro-gun presidential candidates ever to enter the White
House.

''We've been threatened. We've been bullied. We've been ridiculed for eight
years,'' said Alice Tripp, legislative director of the Texas State Rifle
Association, the state affiliate of the National Rifle Association. ''I expect
the tone to change. If tone sets policy, then we've got it made.''

It was more than just the outcome of the presidential race. Gun advocates played
a role in flipping the State Senate in Iowa from blue to red and helped defeat a
ballot initiative in Maine that would have required universal background checks
for gun sales.

The National Rifle Association spent $50.2 million in seven races this year by
supporting Mr. Trump and six Republican Senate candidates, and it lost only one
race in Nevada, according to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics
and The Trace, a nonprofit news outlet that covers gun violence.

''Smart politicians all across the country are realizing that if we don't play
ball with the Second Amendment we will find ourselves unemployed,'' said Aaron
Dorr, executive director of Iowa Gun Owners, whose members distributed
information about candidates perceived as hostile to the Second Amendment in
five State Senate districts. In each, the Democratic incumbent lost.

In Kansas and Indiana, voters approved amendments enshrining the right to hunt
and fish in their Constitutions. And in Maine, David Trahan, executive director
of the Sportsman's Alliance of Maine, which opposed the ballot question on
universal background checks there, said concerns about restricting lawful gun
transfers and a sense that outsiders were dictating Maine's political process
had led to a backlash. The measure was backed by Everytown for Gun Safety, a
group founded in part by Michael R. Bloomberg, a former mayor of New York.

Supporters of gun control said the national situation was more nuanced than the
gun activists' jubilation suggested. They said it was impossible to say what
role gun issues had played in Mr. Trump's victory and disputed that the election
was a national referendum on gun rights. Of the four high-profile state ballot
measures, gun-control advocates won three and lost one, in Maine.

In Washington State, voters passed an initiative allowing for emergency court
orders to temporarily block the right to possess a gun for people perceived as
being at a higher risk of harming themselves or another person. Californians
passed a measure requiring background checks to buy ammunition. And Nevada
voters approved a ballot measure requiring background checks for almost all gun
transfers, beyond what is required by federal law.

Jennifer Crowe, who campaigned for the background check measure in Nevada, known
as Question 1, said concerns about homicides and unchecked online gun sales had
helped her side win despite opposition.

''The more we spoke about the online marketplace and how robust it is, the more
people seemed to understand the importance of Question 1 as a public safety
measure,'' Ms. Crowe said.

Erika Soto Lamb, a spokeswoman for Everytown for Gun Safety, which supported the
ballot items in Maine, Washington State and Nevada, said the only ''true
referendums on how Americans view the issue of gun safety are the ballot
measures.'' She said the open discussion of gun control in the campaign and the
state-level wins suggested that ''what has long been considered a third-rail
issue was in fact a winning issue.''

Gun rights advocates say just the opposite, calling Mrs. Clinton's defeat a sign
that gun control is an untouchable issue and anticipating an expansion of gun
rights with a Trump administration and a Republican-majority Congress.

One of the policies being discussed would lift the restrictions that prohibit
service members on military bases and at recruiting centers from being armed.
Weapons rules at most military bases and centers prohibit service members who
are not police or security personnel from carrying firearms, and Mr. Trump has
said he supports banning so-called gun-free zones on military bases. The issue
gained new attention after shootings at military sites, including at Fort Hood,
Tex., and in Chattanooga, Tenn.

''If Nidal Hasan had had somebody shoot him back, he might have hurt and even
killed a few people, but he wouldn't have killed as many as he did,'' said
Valente Gonzalez, an administrator for the advocacy group Open Carry Texas in
the Houston area, referring to the gunman who killed 13 people at Fort Hood in
2009. ''Disarming law-abiding people invites chaos.''

Other policies include a national right to carry, which would allow those with
concealed-handgun permits in one state to have their permits honored in the
other 49 states. Such a move, known as national reciprocity, also has the
backing of Mr. Trump. There is also a push to make silencers easier and less
costly to purchase by removing them from the National Firearms Act.

''We want broad deregulation of firearms,'' said Dudley Brown, the president of
the National Association for Gun Rights. ''It's high time Republican majorities
in the executive and legislative branches come in and make some broad, broad
changes. As the saying goes, 'Dance with the ones who brung ya.'''

Some gun owners were as surprised as anyone by Mr. Trump's upset victory. C .J.
Grisham, a retired Army sergeant and the president of Open Carry Texas, bought
two AR-15 rifles and an ammunition-making kit shortly before the election, out
of concern about a possible Clinton victory.

''A lot of people in the gun rights community can breathe again,'' he said. ''I
don't think anybody is complaining that they went and bought extra guns.''

Mr. Trump was outspoken about his support for gun rights. He boasted that his
two adult sons were avid hunters. One of his first policy papers was on the
Second Amendment, writing that the ''government has no business dictating what
types of firearms good, honest people are allowed to own.'' And he talked about
his New York-issued license to carry a concealed weapon and suggested he was
prepared to use it.

''Somebody attacks me, oh, they're gonna be shocked,'' Mr. Trump said during a
speech in Tennessee in 2015, comparing any such attack to ''Death Wish,'' the
1970s vigilante movie, and repeatedly using his right hand to pretend to pull a
pistol from his suit. ''Can you imagine? Somebody says: 'Oh, there's Trump. He's
easy pickings.'''

Although Mr. Trump won the endorsement of the N.R.A., his support among gun
activists was not universal. Some were skeptical of him, citing comments he had
made in years past that he supported an assault-weapons ban. Others noticed that
Mr. Trump's plan for his first 100 days in office, released before the election,
did not include any gun issues. And at least one of his gun initiatives -- a
national right to carry -- has been criticized by gun advocates who do not want
the federal government involved in concealed-carry permitting. Some gun
activists said the election was as much about defeating Mrs. Clinton as it was
about supporting Mr. Trump.

''Whether they were supportive of Trump or not -- and I know many who were not
-- they were more concerned about what a Clinton presidency would do,'' said Rod
Moeller, president of the Nebraska Firearms Owners Association.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/us/gun-supporters-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A woman browsed pistols at a gun show in Fort Worth. Supporters
of gun rights anticipate an expansion of them with a Republican-led Congress.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (A12)
 Valente Gonzalez, an administrator for the advocacy group Open Carry Texas,
said, ''Disarming law-abiding people invites chaos.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN HULL
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             260 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrats' Leadership Fight Pits West Wing vs. Left Wing

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MARTIN and MAGGIE HABERMAN; Jonathan Martin reported from
Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words


WASHINGTON -- Struggling to respond to Donald J. Trump's victory, a group of
shellshocked Democrats moved swiftly to endorse Representative Keith Ellison of
Minnesota for chairman of the Democratic National Committee, hoping that he
would be a fresh face for a party with a depleted bench.

But after steadily adding endorsements from leading Democrats in his bid to take
over the party, Mr. Ellison is encountering resistance from a formidable corner:
the White House.

In a sign of the discord gripping the party, President Obama's loyalists, uneasy
with the progressive Mr. Ellison, have begun casting about for an alternative,
according to multiple Democratic officials close to the president.

The battle pits the titans of the Democratic Party against one another, with Mr.
Obama's camp at odds with figures like Chuck Schumer, the new Senate Democratic
leader, and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts.

Mr. Obama's advisers, some of whom discussed the party leadership race at a
White House meeting last week, have talked about whether Labor Secretary Thomas
E. Perez and former Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan would be willing to run
for the post. Mr. Perez met with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. last week
and had lunch Tuesday in the White House Mess with Valerie Jarrett, Mr. Obama's
senior adviser, while also visiting with David Simas, Mr. Obama's political
director.

Some in Mr. Obama's circle were even holding out hope that Mr. Biden himself
could be persuaded to step into the chairmanship as a unifying force for a party
reeling after losing the presidency and making scant gains in the House and
Senate.

But Mr. Biden's office said Tuesday that he was ''not interested in being D.N.C.
chair,'' though he plans to ''remain deeply involved in helping shape the
direction of the Democratic Party moving forward.''

The tumultuous tenure of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who was forced
out as party leader in July, convinced a wide range of Democrats that whoever
takes over the committee must make it their sole focus.

''There's too much at stake for us not to have somebody working in a full-time
capacity,'' said Michael Blake, a New York assemblyman and veteran of both of
Mr. Obama's campaigns, who is considering a D.N.C. vice chairmanship. ''This has
to be your priority.''

But there are other reasons for the discomfort with Mr. Ellison that illustrate
lingering divisions after a bruising presidential primary fight and a general
election in which Hillary Clinton suffered deep losses among working-class
whites and could not match Mr. Obama's support among young and nonwhite voters.

Some Democrats, in Mr. Obama's orbit and beyond, say that elevating Mr. Ellison
would amount to handing the party to Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Mrs.
Clinton's primary race opponent, and his liberal followers.

Mr. Ellison was a high-profile backer of Mr. Sanders's presidential campaign,
and Mr. Sanders has been rallying support for Mr. Ellison's D.N.C. bid. Already
a polarizing figure among Democrats, he ignited new controversy this week by
saying the party needed to ''go beyond identity politics.''

''It's not good enough for someone to say: 'I'm a woman! Vote for me!''' Mr.
Sanders told students in Boston on Sunday, a comment widely seen as a criticism
of Mrs. Clinton. ''No, that's not good enough. What we need is a woman who has
the guts to stand up to Wall Street, to the insurance companies, to the drug
companies, to the fossil fuel industry.''

This call for an economic-centered brand of liberalism is what galvanized so
many of his supporters, but his blunt language also served to remind some
Democrats of the divisive primary race. There is little appetite for a replay of
that fight in the D.N.C. race, which will be decided by members of the committee
when they gather in February for their winter meeting.

Some top Democrats had hoped to pre-empt a contest by backing Mr. Ellison's bid.
Mr. Schumer, Ms. Warren and an array of House members and unions were lining up
behind him even before he formally entered the race.

But along with his inability to do the job full time and his links to Mr.
Sanders, Mr. Ellison's past criticism of Mr. Obama and praise for Louis
Farrakhan, the Nation of Islam leader, worry some Democrats looking for a figure
to lead the opposition to Mr. Trump.

Mr. Ellison, a Muslim, defended Mr. Farrakhan in the 1990s, saying he was ''not
an anti-Semite,'' and has positioned himself on the left flank of congressional
Democrats on Israel.

Jonathan Greenblatt, the head of the Anti-Defamation League, called Mr. Ellison
''an important ally in the fight against anti-Semitism'' but said he had taken
positions on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict ''on which we strongly differ and
that concern us.''

''We hope that all candidates for this post will make clear where they stand on
these issues, and that the Democratic National Committee will make a choice that
affirms the longstanding bipartisan consensus on a strong U.S.-Israel
relationship,'' he said.

Aides to Mr. Ellison were going to make him available for a telephone interview,
but then declined when informed that he would be asked about his past comments
on Mr. Farrakhan. They emailed a list of his links to the Jewish community and a
statement that said, ''Democrats need an organizer who will energize the
grass-roots across this country to build the party from the bottom up.''

A handful of state Democratic leaders have entered or are considering entering
the race, and Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor and D.N.C. chairman, has
also expressed interest.

But it is Mr. Perez, a son of Dominican immigrants, whom many prominent
Democrats would like to see enter the race, and who appears most willing to
consider it.

The A.F.L.-C.I.O. has been considering an endorsement of Mr. Ellison but delayed
its decision, in part because organized labor has a good relationship with Mr.
Perez. Mr. Perez called Richard L. Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.,
to tell him he was seriously considering a run and to ask him to hold off on an
endorsement, according to three Democratic officials familiar with the
conversation.

A spokesman for Mr. Obama declined to comment on the race and said the
administration was neutral. But many in the president's sphere think highly of
Mr. Perez and Ms. Granholm.

''He's very connected to the experience of everyday working-class people, and he
has a connection to immigrant communities, as well,'' David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's
longtime strategist, said of Mr. Perez, who is also mulling a run for governor
in Maryland in 2018. ''He comes to this with a lot of assets if he were to step
forward.''

Mr. Perez and Mrs. Granholm, who both declined to discuss whether they intended
to run, were early supporters of Mrs. Clinton's campaign, which could turn the
D.N.C. race into the Clinton-versus-Sanders proxy war some Democrats want to
avoid.

Get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing
newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/us/politics/democrats-leadership-fight-pits-we
st-wing-against-left-wing.html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the new minority leader, is
at odds with the White House over the party chairmanship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL
DRAGO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota, in his office last year, is backed
by Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN
CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             261 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Carson Is Said to Be Trump's Likely Choice for Housing Secretary Post

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 987 words


WASHINGTON -- Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who ran an outsider's
campaign for the Republican presidential nomination and later backed Donald J.
Trump, is likely to be chosen as secretary of housing and urban development,
according to a person close to the Trump transition, suggesting that the
president-elect is seeking diversity in an administration that has started off
predominantly white and male.

Mr. Carson would be the first African-American member of Mr. Trump's cabinet --
and a familiar face to millions of Americans after a Republican primary campaign
in which he briefly soared to the top of the polls.

Mr. Trump has begun meeting with a wider array of prospects, either for advice
or as potential cabinet picks. He is also considering Harold Ford Jr., an
African-American former Democratic representative from Tennessee, for
transportation secretary or another post, though that process has not yet become
serious, a Trump official said.

Interviewed on Tuesday on the Fox News program ''Your World With Neil Cavuto,''
Mr. Carson said the president-elect had offered him multiple positions in his
cabinet. Asked specifically about the housing job, he replied, ''I would say
that it was one of the offers on the table.''

Mr. Carson's job prospects had gotten somewhat lost in the recent flurry of
speculation about key national security positions, as well as his own misgivings
about his qualifications. But on Tuesday, Mr. Carson thrust himself back into
the spotlight, with an assist from Mr. Trump.

''I am seriously considering Dr. Ben Carson as the head of HUD,'' Mr. Trump said
on Twitter, using the acronym for the Department of Housing and Urban
Development. ''I've gotten to know him well -- he's a greatly talented person
who loves people!''

In recent days, Mr. Trump has broadened the list of people he is consulting to
include Michelle Rhee, a former District of Columbia schools chancellor;
Representative Tulsi Gabbard, the Hawaii Democrat who is the first Hindu member
of Congress; and Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, an Indian-American. Mr.
Ford, with whom he has not yet met, is a regular commentator on the MSNBC show
''Morning Joe,'' whose host, Joe Scarborough, Mr. Trump regularly calls for
advice.

So far, however, his picks have consisted of five white men: Stephen K. Bannon
as chief strategist in the White House, Reince Priebus as chief of staff,
Senator Jeff Sessions as attorney general, Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn as national
security adviser, and Representative Mike Pompeo as director of the C.I.A. Mr.
Trump is also rumored to be close to naming Gen. James N. Mattis as secretary of
defense.

While not as vocal as other supporters like Rudolph W. Giuliani or Gov. Chris
Christie of New Jersey, Mr. Carson has been a steadfast backer of Mr. Trump. He
went on television to defend him after the release of an ''Access Hollywood''
tape in which Mr. Trump spoke about groping women.

But his last job was as director of pediatric neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins
University, and he has little background in housing. In the Fox interview, Mr.
Carson cited his childhood in Detroit and his experience treating inner-city
patients as qualifications for the job.

''I grew up in the inner city,'' he said, ''and have spent a lot of time there
and have dealt with a lot of patients from that area and recognize that we
cannot have a strong nation if we have weak inner cities, and we have to get
beyond the promises and start really doing something.''

''You know, our inner cities are in terrible shape, and they definitely need
some real attention,'' Mr. Carson continued. ''You know, there have been so many
promises made over the last several decades, and nothing has been done, so it
certainly is something that has been a long-term interest of mine, and I'll be
thinking and praying about it seriously over the holiday.''

Mr. Carson's remarks were a striking reversal from last week, when a friend of
his said he had turned down an offer from Mr. Trump to be secretary of health
and human services, citing his lack of experience in running a vast federal
bureaucracy.

''Dr. Carson feels he has no government experience, he's never run a federal
agency,'' his friend Armstrong Williams told The Hill newspaper. ''The last
thing he would want to do was take a position that could cripple the
presidency.''

The Department of Housing and Urban Development, which was established by
President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965, had 8,416 employees and an annual budget of
$32.6 billion as of 2014.

On his own Facebook page, Mr. Carson has said he would prefer to remain an
outside adviser to Mr. Trump.

''My decision not to seek a cabinet position in the Trump administration has
nothing to do with the complexity of the job, as is being reported by some news
outlets,'' Mr. Carson said. ''I believe it is vitally important for the Trump
administration to have many outspoken friends and advisers who are outside of
the Washington bubble.''

The relationship between Mr. Carson and Mr. Trump has had its ups and downs.
Before the primaries, when Mr. Carson was riding high in the polls, Mr. Trump
accused his rival of having a ''pathological temper.'' He based his accusation
on a passage in ''Gifted Hands,'' Mr. Carson's autobiography, in which he
described having a strong temper and said that when he became angry, ''I grabbed
the nearest brick, rock or stick to bash someone.''

During the debates, however, Mr. Trump generally spared Mr. Carson the cutting
remarks he aimed at Jeb Bush and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida.

Later, when Mr. Carson endorsed Mr. Trump, he conceded that it was difficult to
reconcile the bombastic figure on the trail with what he described as a more
thoughtful person behind closed doors.

''There's the one you see on the stage,'' Mr. Carson said, ''and there's the one
who's very cerebral, sits there and considers things very carefully.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/us/politics/donald-trump-close-to-picking-ben-
carson-as-housing-secretary.html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Carson said on Tuesday that President-elect Donald J. Trump
had offered him multiple positions in his cabinet. (POOL PHOTO BY BEHAR ANTHONY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             262 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump's Demand for Love

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 810 words


I had just shaken the president-elect's normal-size hand and he was moving on to
the next person when he wheeled around, took a half step back, touched my arm
and looked me in the eye anew.

''I'm going to get you to write some good stuff about me,'' Donald Trump said.

It's entirely possible. I keep an open mind. But I'm decided on this much:
Winning the most powerful office in the world did nothing to diminish his epic
ache for adoration or outsize need to tell everyone how much he deserves it.

He sat down for more than an hour with about two dozen of us at The Times on
Tuesday afternoon, and what subject do you suppose he spent his first eight
minutes on? When the floor was his, to use as he pleased?

The incredibleness of his win two weeks ago.

''A great victory,'' he said as he went back, unbidden, through all the
Trump-affirming highlights: the size of his crowds; the screens and loudspeakers
for the overflow; the enthusiasm gap between his rallies and poor Hillary
Clinton's. It's a song I've heard so often I could sing it in my sleep.

He volunteered that until he came along, Republican presidential candidates had
been foiled in both Michigan and Pennsylvania for ''38 years or something.'' The
''something'' apparently covered the actual figure, 28.

He said that he got close to 15 percent of African-Americans' votes, though exit
polls suggest it was just 8 percent, and he asserted that their modest turnout
was in fact a huge compliment to him, demonstrating that ''they liked what I was
saying'' and thus didn't bother to show up for Clinton.

He mentioned the popular vote before any of us could -- to let us know that he
would have won it if it had mattered and his strategy had been devised
accordingly.

''The popular vote would have been a lot easier,'' he said, making clear that
his Electoral College triumph was the truly remarkable one.

For Trump, bragging is like breathing: continuous, spontaneous. He wants nothing
more than for his audience to be impressed.

And when his audience is a group of people, like us, who haven't clapped the way
he'd like?

He sands down his edges. Modulates his voice. Bends.

That was perhaps the most interesting part of the meeting, the one that makes
his presidency such a question mark. Will he tilt in whatever direction, and
toward whichever constituency, is the surest source of applause? Is our best
hope for the best Trump to be so fantastically adulatory when he's reasonable
that he's motivated to stay on that course, lest the adulation wane?

The Trump who visited The Times was purged of any zeal to investigate Clinton's
emails or the Clinton Foundation, willing to hear out the scientists on global
warming, skeptical of waterboarding and unhesitant to disavow white
nationalists. He never mentioned the border wall.

He more or less told us to disregard all the huffing and puffing he'd done about
curtailing press freedoms, and he looked forward to another meeting -- a year
from now -- when we'd all reunite in a spirit of newfound amity to celebrate his
administration's uncontroversial accomplishments. I could see the big group hug.
I could hear ''Kumbaya.''

And though one of his splenetic tweets just seven hours before our meeting had
again branded The Times a ''failing'' news organization, he said to our faces
that we weren't just a ''great, great American jewel'' but a ''world jewel.''

There was a lesson here about his desire to be approved of and his hunger to be
loved. There was another about the shockingly unformed, pliable nature of the
clay that is our 70-year-old president-elect.

His reservations about waterboarding, he said, arose from a conversation he'd
just had with James Mattis, a retired Marine general under consideration for
secretary of defense. During that talk Mattis had bluntly questioned
waterboarding's effectiveness -- and so, now, did Trump.

It was as if he'd never really thought through the issue during that endless
campaign, and it suggested that the most influential voice in Trumplandia is the
last one he happened to listen to. That's worrying, because some of the voices
he has thus far put closest to him -- those of Steve Bannon, Mike Flynn, Jeff
Sessions -- aren't the most constructive, restrained, unifying ones.

And to my eyes and ears, Trump still has grandiose intentions in lieu of
concrete plans. Toward the end of our meeting, he went so far as to prophesy
that he might be able to accomplish what his predecessors couldn't and broker a
lasting peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians.

That'd definitely do the trick. We'd all be writing nothing but very, very good
stuff about him then.

I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni) and join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/opinion/donald-trumps-demand-for-love.html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             263 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Anti-Clinton Fake News Casts Pizzeria as Front for Crime

BYLINE: By PUI-WING TAM

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg.

LENGTH: 245 words


The proliferation of fake news online has roiled the American presidential
election, politicians around the world and internet companies including Facebook
and Google.

So what happens when the fake news juggernaut also sweeps up ordinary citizens?

Cecilia Kang saw the fallout up close when she interviewed James Alefantis,
owner of the Comet Ping Pong pizzeria in Washington. Mr. Alefantis and his
employees have gotten caught up in a storm of fake news recently. A barrage of
false articles on social media and fake news sites said their pizzeria was a
front for a child-trafficking ring led by Hillary Clinton and her campaign
chief, John D. Podesta.

The stories -- collected under the hashtag #pizzagate -- have surprised Mr.
Alefantis. He was a supporter of Mrs. Clinton's and has prominent Democratic
friends in Washington, but has never met the former Democratic presidential
candidate, nor peddled children nor abused them.

The repercussions have been far-reaching. Mr. Alefantis, his friends and
employees are now dealing with a flood of nasty comments on social media,
threatening phone calls and even visits to their restaurant from people who say
they believe the fake news articles. Mr. Alefantis has gotten in touch with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the local police and many social media
companies to try to take down the fake items. He has had little success.

''It's endless,'' Mr. Alefantis said of the strange digital turn his life has
taken.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/22/technology/anti-clinton-fake-news-casts-pizzer
ia-as-front-for-crime.html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             264 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Canceling Tour, West Is Hospitalized

BYLINE: By JOE COSCARELLI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 606 words


The rapper Kanye West was hospitalized on Monday in Los Angeles for exhaustion,
hours after he canceled the remainder of his 2016 tour, his representative said.

The Los Angeles Police Department said that it had responded to a call in the
West Hollywood area at 1:20 p.m., but that the encounter became a ''medical
emergency'' and was handed off to the Los Angeles Fire Department. In a
recording of the Fire Department's dispatch call obtained by TMZ, the matter was
referred to as a ''psychiatric emergency.''

Mr. West's representative, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss
sensitive matters, said the call had come from the rapper's doctor and that he
was taken willingly to the U.C.L.A. Medical Center for evaluation. The episode
was first reported by NBC News.

The cancellation of Mr. West's ''Saint Pablo'' tour, which was scheduled to run
through the end of the year, came after a turbulent few days for the rapper.
Onstage in Sacramento on Saturday night, Mr. West delivered a long, meandering
speech, criticizing friends and associates in the music industry, including Jay
Z and Beyoncé, as he praised the communication style of President-elect Donald
J. Trump. He then ended the concert after only a few songs. His show the next
night in Los Angeles was canceled just hours before he was set to perform.

Two nights before the Sacramento show, Mr. West left some fans dismayed and
confused at a concert in San Jose, Calif., after he said he would have supported
Mr. Trump, a Republican, if he had voted in the presidential election. ''What do
you really believe?'' he asked the crowd repeatedly.

''I am putting my career, my life, my public well-standing at risk when I talk
to y'all like this,'' Mr. West said in a similar speech on Saturday. ''I've been
sitting here to give y'all my truth even at the risk of my own life. Even at the
risk of my own success, my own career. I've been sitting here to give y'all the
truth.''

As news of the tour cancellation and Mr. West's hospitalization spread, the
rapper's friends and collaborators took to social media with messages of
support. ''He's obviously going thru a tough time,'' Terrence Henderson, the rap
executive known as Punch, wrote. ''Maybe things u don't know about. When it hit
the fan are you still a fan?''

The producer and record executive 9th Wonder added: ''Been knowing the brother
upwards of 13 years. Mental healing is a serious thing, no matter what. Stay
strong Kanye West.''

Chance the Rapper, in a BBC Radio appearance on Tuesday morning, also addressed
the situation, calling Mr. West a ''big brother'' figure. ''I want to just
extend this prayer and extend this love from all the way in Britain,'' he said.
''We might come back early to come see this man.''

Mr. West has been especially prolific this year. In addition to releasing a new
album, ''The Life of Pablo,'' in February, he has presented two fashion
collections and performed more than 30 shows during the initial North American
leg of the tour, which ran from August through October.

Last month, Mr. West dramatically cut short a festival appearance in New York
when he learned on stage that his wife, Kim Kardashian West, had been tied up
and robbed at gunpoint in a Paris apartment. She has since receded from the
spotlight, but had been scheduled to make her first public appearance in more
than a month on Monday night at a charity gala in New York.

Instead, following news of Mr. West's hospitalization, Ms. Kardashian West was
photographed returning by plane to Los Angeles.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/arts/music/kanye-west-hospitalized-exhaustion.
html

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             265 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clinton Supporters, Citing Experts, Urge Her to Seek a Recount in 3 Key States

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL and DAVID E. SANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1416 words


Hillary Clinton's lead in the popular vote is growing. She is roughly 30,000
votes behind Donald J. Trump in the key swing states of Michigan and Wisconsin
-- a combined gap that is narrowing. Her impassioned supporters are now urging
her to challenge the results in those two states and Pennsylvania, grasping at
the last straws to reverse  Mr. Trump's decisive majority in the Electoral
College.

In recent days, they have seized on a report by a respected computer scientist
and other experts suggesting that Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, the keys
to Mr. Trump's Electoral College victory, need to manually review paper ballots
to assure the election was not hacked.

''Were this year's deviations from pre-election polls the results of a
cyberattack?'' J. Alex Halderman, a computer science professor at the University
of Michigan who has studied the vulnerabilities of election systems at length,
wrote on Medium on Wednesday as the calls based on his conclusions mounted.
''Probably not.''

More likely, he wrote, pre-election polls were ''systematically wrong.'' But the
only way to resolve the lingering questions would be to examine ''paper ballots
and voting equipment in critical states,'' he wrote.

Tellingly, the pleas for recounts have gained no support from the Clinton
campaign, which has concluded, along with outside experts, that it is highly
unlikely the outcome would change even after an expensive and time-consuming
review of ballots.

But that has not quieted Mrs. Clinton's supporters, who see the inequity of her
growing lead in the national popular vote, which is now more than two million
votes, or 1.5 percent of all ballots cast, according to the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report, which regularly updates its count as states continue to tally
and to certify votes.

Since there is currently no effort to review the paper ballots -- which exist in
Michigan and Wisconsin, but only in parts of Pennsylvania -- conspiracy theories
about the 2016 election may live on for years. After  United States intelligence
agencies accused Russia of trying to influence the election by stealing and
publishing emails from the Democratic National Committee and a range of other
institutions and prominent individuals, the United States went on high alert to
determine if there was any attempt to sabotage the vote count. So far, no one in
the Obama administration has indicated that there is any such evidence.

In the three battleground states, Mrs. Clinton is behind by 1.2 percent or less,
and the final results have not yet been certified.

Uniting around the social media hashtag #AuditTheVote, the
campaign-after-the-campaign has picked up momentum among grass-roots activists
still mourning Mr. Trump's victory and who echo, paradoxically, his pre-election
complaint that the vote was ''rigged.''

''Based on the information of the intelligence community that Russia was
actively trying to screw around with our election, I thought why not take the
time and question this,'' said Michelle Zuckerman-Parker, an engineer in
Pittsburgh, who on Wednesday planned to petition her county election board for a
recount of the Nov. 8 vote.

That view spread quickly on social media on Tuesday evening when New York
magazine published an article about Professor Halderman and others who had
contacted the remnants of the Clinton campaign. It also generated pushback by
experts who said that even though it was theoretically possible to hack voting
machines, it would be enormously difficult -- because it would have to be highly
targeted in key precincts and conducted on a scale required to assure Mr.
Trump's victory.

''Left-wing conspiracy theories of vote rigging'' are ''pathetic,'' Dave
Wasserman of the Cook Political Report said on Twitter.

Time may have already run out. Pennsylvania allows individual voters to petition
for a recount, but the deadline was Sunday, said Wanda Murren, a spokeswoman for
the Pennsylvania Department of State. A candidate can also contest an election
in court, and the deadline is Monday.

Michigan and Wisconsin have not reached their deadlines for seeking a recount,
but they will in days. So far, Mrs. Clinton has not requested any action, said
Reid Magney, a spokesman for the Wisconsin Elections Commission.

Until the publication of Professor Halderman's work, Clinton supporters had few
reasons to hope. He did not offer them much: He noted that while the voting
machines used in those states are not connected to the internet during the
election, they are programmed before the election. The data is usually
transferred on a USB stick or other data card.

''If attackers can modify that software by infecting the machines with malware,
they can cause the machines to give any answer whatsoever,'' Professor Halderman
wrote.

The problem, as Bruce Schneier, a security expert who has written often on the
issue, noted in an interview, is that the usual triggers for a recount -- a very
close margin between two candidates -- make little sense in a world of
state-sponsored computer hackings. A truly sophisticated hacking would result in
a wider margin of victory that would not set off an automatic recount.

Mrs. Clinton would have to triumph in all three states to win the Electoral
College. The electors will meet in December to formally choose the president.
And there, Mr. Trump is ahead by 290 votes to Mrs. Clinton's 232, with Michigan
still officially uncalled.

As of Wednesday, Mr. Trump's lead in Michigan had shrunk to 10,704 votes, or 0.2
percent, according to the National Popular Vote Tracker maintained by the Cook
Political Report.

Mr. Trump's lead in Wisconsin has narrowed to 22,525 votes, or 0.8 percent. In
Pennsylvania, his lead slightly grew on Wednesday, to 70,010, or 1.2 percent.

The Clinton campaign did not respond to requests for comment. Other Democrats
said it was time to move on.

''I'm not sure it's possible to undo the results, and all the people are
focusing their energy on opposing the worst ideas of this administration at this
point, not the legitimacy of the results,'' said Daniel Doubet, an organizer for
Keystone Progress, a liberal group in Pennsylvania.

Those pushing for a recount say they are trying to pick up the fight for a tired
and demoralized candidate and her staff.

''The Democratic Party and the Hillary campaign are exhausted, and they're
really hurting, and they may not have the clarity,'' said Ms. Zuckerman-Parker,
who briefly volunteered for the Clinton campaign.

On social media, supporters pleaded with the campaign to act. ''Please
@HillaryClinton @timkaine call for #AuditTheVote,'' wrote Writerchick on
Twitter, appealing to Mrs. Clinton and her running mate, Senator Tim Kaine of
Virginia. ''We are all working so hard for you, make the call, the nation is
depending on you.''

By poring over local election results online, the Audit the Vote crowd uncovered
what appeared to be anomalies in the counting. Helen Manich of National Harbor,
Md., for one, noticed that Sauk County, Wis., reported that 31,838 ballots were
cast overall, but the total votes for presidential candidates numbered 34,323.

Such glitches are not uncommon, election experts said. They are usually ironed
out in the process of certifying results. Although those certifications might
change the results by several hundred or several thousand votes, they are highly
unlikely to move tens of thousands.

To shift the Electoral College, Mrs. Clinton would not only have to reverse her
current deficits in Wisconsin and Michigan but also in Pennsylvania, which
experts say is highly unlikely.

There is widespread confusion on social media about how recounts are generated.
A flood of Twitter users have urged Clinton supporters to call the United States
Department of Justice, even though it is states that certify election results.

Ms. Zuckerman-Parker was furiously trying to organize voters around the states
to file petitions demanding a recount this week.

''It's like this fever approach happening in the last few hours,'' Melissa Lang
of Allegheny County, Pa., said on Tuesday, describing her efforts to reach out
to voters across the state using social media.

But Ms. Murren, the Pennsylvania State Department spokeswoman, said the deadline
for such petitions had come and gone.

''Our staff is not aware of any petitions for precinct-level recounts in the
presidential race,'' she said.

Get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing
newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/us/politics/vote-count-hillary-clinton-trump.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An election night party hosted by the Pennsylvania Democratic
Party in Philadelphia. Donald J. Trump won the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK MAKELA
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             266 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Handy Election Facts for Holiday Discussion

BYLINE: By KEVIN QUEALY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE 2016 RACE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1075 words


At Thanksgiving, many of us will be subject to -- or subjecting our hosts to --
a wide range of opinions about the 2016 election.

But some aspects of it are rooted in fact -- not open to interpretation (Sorry,
Uncle Bill). Below, we present a compendium of sorts about the election, to help
guide you in your discussions. Some of these may seem basic, but they are by no
means obvious to everyone. Don't let them get in the way of a good holiday
argument.

Hillary Clinton definitely won the popular vote, and that lead is only going to
grow.

The New York Times called the election for Donald J. Trump at about 2:40 a.m. on
Nov. 9. At that time, he had about 57.2 million votes, almost a million more
than Hillary Clinton. Even before then, the signs pointed to her edge in the
national popular vote.

Most of the votes that remain uncounted are in heavily Democratic places like
California. Even roughly two weeks later, the state estimated that it had about
two million ballots yet to be counted, including about 760,000 in Los Angeles
County, where voters have preferred Mrs. Clinton by around 50 percentage points.

As the votes have trickled in, the popular vote has tilted toward Mrs. Clinton.
As of Wednesday morning, that lead surpassed two million votes, or 1.5
percentage points better than Mr. Trump. (Our time-stamped estimates are
courtesy of Dave Wasserman's excellent popular vote tracker.) This lead is still
growing, but it's already a larger margin than in popular vote victories by Al
Gore in 2000, Richard Nixon in 1968 and John F. Kennedy in 1960.

Turnout in the 2016 election was not low. It is about the same as it was in 2012
and comparable to most 20th-century presidential elections.

Turnout is simple to calculate: Take the total number of votes cast and divide
it by the total number of adults who are eligible to vote, and presto, you have
a turnout rate!

When the race was called, this math problem yielded a rate that was, indeed,
historically low. It was also wrong, for the same reason Mrs. Clinton trailed in
the popular vote at that time: Not all the ballots had been counted.

Because the denominator in this math problem -- the number of voting-eligible
adults on Election Day -- does not change, the turnout rate goes up every time
ballots are counted. As they have come in, the turnout rate has risen to about
57.7 percent. Michael McDonald at the United States Elections Project estimates
that it will ultimately be closer to 58.4 percent, a bit lower than it was in
2012 and roughly comparable to most presidential elections in the last 100
years.

Yes, the polls were off, but not in extraordinary ways.

Mrs. Clinton held a modest but steady lead in nearly every national poll for
months, and led most state polls in Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania,
Michigan and Wisconsin. Yet she lost in each of these states.

So how wrong were the polls? On average, by about 3.4 percentage points in the
closest states. That's higher than in any election in decades, but comparable to
polling misses in 1988 and 1992.

The 2016 polling miss feels much larger because the places where Mrs. Clinton
fared worse than polls suggested were concentrated in a few battleground states.
The places where she fared better than expected were in big liberal states,
where she had almost no chance of losing. Nationally, these effects nearly
canceled out, which is why her national polling lead before the election --
three to four points -- ended up being close to the result (which, again, is
about a 1.5-point lead and is expected to grow as more votes come in).

Third-party candidates, like Gary Johnson and Jill Stein, may have cost Mrs.
Clinton Michigan, but they almost certainly did not cost her the presidency.

The total vote tally says about 4 percent of all voters, about 5.8 million
people, voted for Mr. Johnson (3.3 percent) or Ms. Stein (1 percent). In four
battleground states that Mrs. Clinton lost -- Florida, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin
and Michigan -- the votes for these third-party candidates exceeded Mr. Trump's
margin of victory. If those states had flipped, Mrs. Clinton would be president.
Are third-party voters responsible for the Trump presidency?

Almost certainly not.

With the exception of Michigan, third-party voters would have had to
overwhelmingly favor Mrs. Clinton to flip the state. That notion also rests on a
significant number of third-party voters coming to the polls, but many of them
told pollsters that they would have stayed home if they could not have voted for
their third-party candidate.

If we look at Mr. Trump's margin of victory in these four states and the number
of votes cast for Mr. Johnson or Ms. Stein, we're left with a simple math
problem: If those candidates did not exist, what share of those votes would Mrs.
Clinton have needed to pick up to overtake Mr. Trump's vote lead? The answer: a
substantial share.

Might these voters really have preferred Mrs. Clinton to Mr. Trump to this
degree and showed up to the polls at higher rates than they told pollsters they
would? It's possible. But for that vote to be decisive, Pennsylvania or Florida
and at least one other state would have had to flip. The evidence we have
suggests such an outcome would have been highly unlikely; if anything, the
Johnson vote could have easily leaned toward Mr. Trump.

Exit polls are useful, but don't give them too much credence.

As my colleague Nate Cohn has written, exit polls are helpful, but using them to
come to conclusions about the precise composition of the electorate is risky --
and frequently wrong. In 2012, they painted a picture of the electorate that was
younger and more diverse than it really was.

Many important questions remain about precisely who voted, and why. Did poor
Democratic turnout doom Mrs. Clinton, or were swing voters the key to Mr.
Trump's win? Did Mr. Trump really do better among Hispanic voters than Mitt
Romney? Further analysis of the voter files -- which show who voted and who
didn't -- will provide more clarity in the months ahead. Exit polls alone are
not a definitive way to answer these questions.

But a few things, as we've tried to explain, should be beyond debate, as should
the idea that Thanksgiving dinner ought to include at least some time not
devoted to politics.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/upshot/election-facts-to-keep-handy-for-thanks
giving-dinner-discussion.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Large and Growing Popular Vote Lead: As more ballots have been
counted, Hillary Clinton has built a large popular vote lead. (Source: Dave
Wasserman, Cook Political Report)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             267 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump to Accept Inauguration Funds From Corporations and Big Donors

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS FANDOS; Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1278 words


WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald J. Trump will allow corporations and
wealthy individuals to make large donations to fund the activities surrounding
his inauguration, complicating his promise to eliminate special interests from
influencing his government.

Mr. Trump plans to ban money from registered lobbyists, whom he has purged from
his transition team and barred from working for his administration. But the
restrictions will be lighter on corporations and individuals -- the groups that
have traditionally provided a vast majority of funding for the festivities
surrounding the transfer of power.

The restrictions, which members of the Presidential Inaugural Committee
cautioned have yet to be finalized, represent a continued march back from
standards set in 2009, when President-elect Barack Obama banned gifts from
lobbyists, political action committees and corporations, and put a cap of
$50,000 on individuals.

Mr. Obama relaxed his own rules in 2012, after what was then the most expensive
presidential campaign in history had depleted his donor base, lifting the ban on
corporate gifts and restrictions on the size of those from individuals.

Mr. Trump, who like Mr. Obama campaigned on reducing the influence of money in
politics, appears poised to relax them further.

Officials planning the inauguration said Mr. Trump would solicit corporate
donations up to $1 million and allow money to be transferred from political
action committees on a case-by-case basis. The inaugural committee has not
reached a decision on where to cap gifts from individuals, if at all.

All told, Mr. Trump hopes to raise roughly $65 million to $75 million to fund
the parade, balls and other festivities surrounding his swearing-in as
president, according to several people involved in the planning efforts.

Such a fund-raising total, if it materializes, would easily surpass the $43
million Mr. Obama's team raised for his 2013 inauguration and the $53 million, a
record, that it raised for his first inauguration in 2009.

Thomas Barrack Jr., a private equity investor who is heading the committee
responsible for planning the events surrounding Mr. Trump's inauguration on Jan.
20, said the decision to limit donations from certain groups was ''in line with
the president-elect's thoughts on ethics reform.''

But campaign finance experts said the restrictions left much to be desired,
targeting groups that traditionally provide little funding for the occasion
while seemingly letting bigger donors -- including corporate interests that Mr.
Trump took aim at on the campaign trail -- off the hook.

''For the most part, they are illusory, because they are restricting money that
doesn't really play any significant role in funding the inauguration,'' said
Fred Wertheimer, a longtime advocate of campaign finance overhaul, referring to
the restrictions on lobbyists and foreign interests.

The corporate and individual money that does traditionally play a significant
role, he added, would be allowed to flow more or less unabated, leaving the
potential of undue influence in place.

''You can't have a more ideal opportunity to buy influence and ingratiate
yourself with a new administration than by giving a huge contribution to pay for
their inauguration,'' Mr. Wertheimer said.

Bob Biersack, a senior fellow at the Center for Responsive Politics, was more
forgiving toward Mr. Trump, but he said it would take a fundamental change in
the way inaugurations were funded to meaningfully root out special interests.

''I don't find it fundamentally inconsistent with what he is saying,'' he said.
''I just think the rhetoric and the reality are different.''

Presidential transition committees, which coordinate and finance most of the
festivities that surround the federally funded swearing-in ceremony, face few of
the fund-raising restrictions campaigns do, and their practices vary from
president to president.

President George W. Bush did not restrict who could support his inaugural
festivities, but he put caps on gifts.

The committee is still in the early stages of assembling what will be an
operation employing hundreds of people responsible for planning dozens of
events. As of Wednesday morning, the fund-raising packages that are typically
used to solicit donations were still being vetted by lawyers, and subcommittees
were still taking shape to handle issues like security and entertainment.

''It's like putting on the Olympics in 61 days,'' Mr. Barrack said, adding that
the committee was racing to finalize plans by the end of the week.

Two people working with the committee said it planned to roll out tiered giving
packages next week, most likely ranging from $25,000 to $1 million, that will
reward donors with progressively more access to more intimate events with Mr.
Trump and his team. The committee is planning to hold two official balls,
according to two people involved in the planning. By comparison, Mr. Obama
attended 10 official balls in 2009.

Mr. Trump is not expected to donate to the festivities himself, as he did to the
campaign, according to members of the committee, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss plans that had not been finalized.

Sara Armstrong, a longtime Republican National Committee official who helped
plan the Republican National Convention in Cleveland this summer, has been
appointed chief executive and is leading the team that Mr. Barrack said would
eventually total 350 people out of an office building just off the National
Mall. As of Wednesday, the committee had hired about 100 people, he said.

The committee includes generous donors to Mr. Trump's campaign, like Woody
Johnson, the owner of the New York Jets; Gail Icahn, the wife of the investor
Carl Icahn; and the casino magnate Sheldon Adelson and his wife, Miriam. Several
stalwart backers of Republican causes, like Stephen A. Wynn and Lewis M.
Eisenberg, are on the committee, as is Brian Ballard, Mr. Trump's longtime
Florida lobbyist.

The overall cost of the inauguration and related festivities is likely to run to
as much as $200 million. Most of that burden will fall on taxpayers, though, who
fund everything from security to the swearing-in ceremony and inaugural luncheon
organized by a joint committee of Congress.

Mr. Trump's team said it was expecting two million to three million people to
flood Washington for the ceremony, a crowd that could surpass the 1.8 million
estimated to have been on hand for Mr. Obama's first inauguration, which was a
record. Planners are also expecting more protesters than usual around the event.

Mr. Barrack said Mr. Trump had instructed him to plan events tailored to the
political moment.

''It's one of the greatest opportunities that this president has to put his
fingerprints on bridging the divide,'' Mr. Barrack said on Wednesday.

Mike Litterst, a spokesman for the National Park Service, which controls the
Mall and other public spaces where the inauguration will take place, said on
Monday that the Park Service did not expect to meet with officials from the
group until after Thanksgiving.

But across Washington, the physical preparations for Jan. 20 are well underway,
even as the city's political establishment is struggling to come to terms with
the election outcome.

Capitol architects have been hammering away since September on the more than
10,000-square-foot inaugural platform overlooking the Mall. And outside the
White House, Park Service staff members are at work on the presidential
reviewing stand where Mr. Trump will review his inaugural parade.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/us/politics/trump-inaugural-donors.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers building the presidential reviewing stand on Tuesday in
Washington for the inaugural parade. Most of the inauguration costs fall on
taxpayers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             268 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Economic Tsunami': Fearing Trump, Immigrants in City Are Spending Less

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS; Teodelina Basavilbaso contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1382 words


In Jackson Heights, Queens, days after the presidential election, an
Indian-American jeweler was left holding an order of two custom men's gold rings
worth $3,000. The customer told him he could not pay; he had to go back to his
home country before he could be deported.

At the furniture store Casa Dominicana on St. Nicholas Avenue in Upper
Manhattan, the white leather sofas and bedroom sets have not been selling, the
manager, Wendy Calderon, said. ''Most people are afraid to go out and shop,''
she said. ''They are saving their money if anything crazy happens.''

And at the office of Dr. Ismael Bastida, a Mexican-born, New York
University-trained dentist in Elmhurst, Queens, patients are forgoing
teeth-whitening packages and long-term treatment plans. As a result, he ordered
fewer syringes and fillings last week from Benco Dental, a family-owned company
based in Luzerne County, Pa., where 58 percent voted for the Republican, Donald.
J. Trump.

New York City, where a weighty portion of the economy is driven by immigrants,
is already starting to feel the effect of Mr. Trump's election, as residents in
Latino neighborhoods facing an uncertain future have cut back their spending.
Forty-seven percent of the city's work force is made up of immigrants, according
to the Center for an Urban Future, a nonpartisan group that studies city
finance.

Those most worried are undocumented immigrants, whom Mr. Trump during the
campaign vowed to deport. Some 574,000 city residents are undocumented, and they
pay $793 million a year in state and local taxes, according to a study
commissioned by the City Council speaker, Melissa Mark-Viverito, a Democrat.

About 10 percent of the city's workers are unauthorized, according to United
States census figures, although an accurate count is hard to determine.

It is likewise impossible to separate the underground economy from New York's
larger economy, because the city is home to immigrants of every kind of legal
status, like day laborers, taxi drivers, kitchen workers in restaurants owned by
undocumented immigrants who pay taxes, and college-educated entrepreneurs who
have temporary protection from deportation.

If they were to leave the city, either by returning on their own to their home
countries or by government order, ''it could be a massive ripple effect,''
Jonathan Bowles, executive director of the Center for an Urban Future, said.

''You take away upwards of a half-million undocumented immigrants,'' Mr. Bowles
added, ''and these are folks that pay taxes, that spend money in their
communities, that may be employing other New Yorkers. And we could see others
take flight.''

Dr. Bastida had a dire prediction: ''It will be an economic tsunami.''

Elizabeth Vilchis, a technology entrepreneur who came to New York as a child
from Mexico, said, ''Because we're always in the backdrop, people don't realize
the impact we have.''

She is able to work legally under a program known as Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals, created by President Obama by executive action. Mr. Trump
has promised to eliminate it, potentially affecting some 30,000 young people in
New York City and 750,000 across the nation.

Mr. Trump's first priority, he has said, would be to deport criminals -- he
estimated there were more than two million -- living in the United States
illegally. He has not said yet how he would force the 11.2 million immigrants
without criminal records or papers to leave the country.

State Senator Jose Peralta, whose Queens district includes Jackson Heights,
Elmhurst and Corona -- the center of New York City's business growth in the last
decade -- said that uncertainty had led to fear-driven decisions, whether it was
to return home or to cut back on luxuries.

His constituents, he said, were saying: ''Why not just slow down the
expenditures? Because I don't know if I'm going to need this money to defend
myself.'''

That mentality is not prevalent only among low-wage workers. Cris Mercado, the
founder of two start-up ventures, is doing the same. Mr. Mercado came to the
United States as a child from the Philippines.

After losing a scholarship package to New York University because he was
undocumented, he graduated from City College of New York and later started Grant
Answers, a company that helps first-generation Americans secure college
scholarships. Now he is developing KeyJargon, an app that connects job seekers
with professional associations.

But his financial clock is ticking, he said. ''I have about two months to really
ramp up the next iteration of my app and also to secure the many independent
contracting opportunities,'' Mr. Mercado said. ''I'm really trying to hoard
resources and cash, because I don't know what's next.''

Ernesto Cury, a Dominican-born accountant in Jackson Heights, said that since
the election, several clients had inquired about the tax implications of taking
out their profits from restaurants, cleaning services and construction
companies. Even if they are not legal permanent residents, Mr. Cury explained,
immigrants can be self-employed, form a corporation and then pay taxes using an
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, because they do not qualify for
Social Security.

In Queens, the self-employment rate of foreign-born people is 12 percent,
according to the Center for an Urban Future, compared with 6.4 percent of those
who are native-born.

Juan Ospina, a naturalized citizen from Colombia, runs two businesses: Mama
Empanada y Algo Mas on 82nd Street in Jackson Heights, and a contracting company
that recently finished building a nearby hair salon. He says he relies on day
laborers who are undocumented, and cannot imagine what would happen if they were
not available.

''I don't believe that Trump will kick out the engine,'' Mr. Ospina said.

But many undocumented immigrants are now wondering whether he will. In Bushwick,
Brooklyn, curve-enhancing Colombian jeans are staying on the rack at a
neighborhood store. Customers from Ecuador have told the Mexican-born owner,
Maria de los Santos, that they might need any extra money in the coming year to
move their families.

At Patricia Salazar's clothing and catchall store on Roosevelt Avenue off 82nd
Street in Jackson Heights, two customers told her last week that they were
leaving the country. And her longtime hairdresser, who worked at a salon up the
block, said she was going back to Colombia the next day.

Ms. Salazar, who immigrated from Bolivia 30 years ago, said she had been a
supporter of Mr. Trump because she thought he would be good for business. But
now, even though her children and grandchildren are United States citizens, she
is thinking of returning home.

''I don't want to live with this thing in my heart, because I am scared,'' she
said.

Around the corner from her store, Dr. Bastida and his daughter, Araceli
Thornton, who manages his practice, were wondering whether they might have to
combine practices with one of the other dental offices that line 82nd Street,
all of them catering to the neighborhood's immigrant population.

They see how the businesses in the area are interwoven. ''It is a circle,'' Dr.
Bastida said. ''One that buys here later eats food from there.''

Perhaps the most ubiquitous symbol of New York's immigrant-driven economy is the
bicycle-riding food deliverer.

Soon after Ms. Vilchis, the entrepreneur, graduated from City College of New
York with a degree in mechanical engineering, she helped create a start-up
technology company to optimize food delivery in the Manhattan neighborhoods of
Hell's Kitchen and Chelsea.

She employed undocumented immigrants to deliver food at $15 an hour -- a job
that usually pays $7.50, she said. The most frequent orders came from finance
professionals who had no time to leave their desks, which led Ms. Vilchis to
another conclusion: Time is another currency propelling the city's economy, with
lower-paid, often-undocumented workers performing tasks that higher-paid
professionals are willing to outsource, including the delivery of pad Thai to
their desks.

''A lot of people who are successful in the city, it is because there are
immigrants to fill the roles that let them use their time to advance their
careers,'' Ms. Vilchis said. ''If we take that away, the whole thing crashes.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/nyregion/economic-tsunami-fearing-donald-trump
-immigrants-in-new-york-spend-less.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The corner of Roosevelt Avenue and 82nd Street in Jackson
Heights, Queens. Some business owners in the neighborhood said business had
ebbed since Donald J. Trump's election.
Glen Mirchandani, a jeweler in Jackson Heights, said a customer had recently
backed out of a $3,000 deal for two custom gold rings because, fearing
deportation, he was leaving the country. (A27)
PATRICIA SALAZAR: Queens store owner who supported Donald J. Trump but is now
thinking of returning to Bolivia.
DR. ISMAEL BASTIDA: A dentist in Elmhurst, Queens, on how businesses in the area
are interwoven. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A27)
 CRIS MERCADO: Founder of two start-up ventures, pictured with Elizabeth
Vilchis, a technology entrepreneur. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YEONG-UNG YANG FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A28)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             269 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Nikki Haley Chosen as U.N. Ambassador

BYLINE: By MAGGIE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 590 words


President-elect Donald J. Trump on Wednesday named Gov. Nikki Haley of South
Carolina as his choice to become ambassador to the United Nations, adding to his
prospective cabinet a former critic with whom he had sparred bitterly.

Ms. Haley's name had previously been mentioned as a possible contender to become
Mr. Trump's secretary of state, and she met with Trump transition officials last
week in New York.

Her selection was first reported by the The Post and Courier newspaper in
Charleston, S.C. The news of Ms. Haley's selection came after days of criticism
of Mr. Trump's early picks as a homogeneous bloc of older, white men. If
confirmed, Ms. Haley would step down as governor and be replaced by the state's
lieutenant governor, Henry McMaster, who was an early and vocal supporter of Mr.
Trump.

Ms. Haley, 44, supported Senator Marco Rubio of Florida during the Republican
primaries, and she was a prominent and frequent critic of Mr. Trump early in his
run.

That criticism was thought to have kept her off Mr. Trump's list of
vice-presidential candidates, although her name was mentioned in passing before
he chose Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana.

Ms. Haley called out Mr. Trump in January when she gave the official Republican
rebuttal to President Obama's State of the Union address, and she later took him
to task for his failure to condemn groups like the Ku Klux Klan.

''Some people think that you have to be the loudest voice in the room to make a
difference,'' Ms. Haley said in the State of the Union rebuttal. ''That is just
not true. Often, the best thing we can do is turn down the volume.''

In a follow-up interview on the ''Today'' show on NBC, Ms. Haley -- the daughter
of immigrants from India -- said, ''Mr. Trump has definitely contributed to what
I think is just irresponsible talk.''

Mr. Trump responded harshly to that address, calling her ''weak'' on immigration
and noting that she had asked him for campaign contributions.

''She's very, very weak on illegal immigration,'' Mr. Trump said. ''She's very,
very weak on illegal immigration. You can't have that.''

The following month, she condemned Mr. Trump for not speaking out against white
supremacy more forcefully.

Ms. Haley drew on South Carolina's experience last year with the murder of nine
African-Americans in a Charleston church, saying that was exactly the kind of
hate that Mr. Trump refused to repudiate.

''The K.K.K. came to South Carolina from out of state to protest on our
Statehouse grounds,'' she said at a rally in Georgia. ''I will not stop until we
fight a man that chooses not to disavow the K.K.K. That is not a part of our
party. That is not who we are.''

Supporters of Mr. Trump were angered that Ms. Haley called him out, and many
took to Twitter and mocked her Indian heritage, making fun of her Indian given
name. Some of that sentiment reappeared on social media once word began
circulating that Ms. Haley was likely to be chosen to be part of the Trump
administration.

Still, in a primary season interview with CNN, Ms. Haley urged Mr. Trump not to
take her comments personally, and said that she considered him a friend.

''I have disagreements with other presidential candidates,'' Ms. Haley said.
''There's lots of things, but I will say tone matters, message matters and
responsibility matters.''

If nominated by Mr. Trump and confirmed by the Senate, Ms. Haley, now in her
second term as South Carolina governor, would succeed Samantha Power, who has
represented the United States at the United Nations since 2013.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/us/politics/nikki-haley-donald-trump-un-ambass
ador.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             270 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latest Fed Discussion Reflects Increasing Confidence in Raising Rates

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 885 words


WASHINGTON -- When Federal Reserve officials convened just before the
presidential election, they talked like people who were ready to raise interest
rates, although they decided to wait a little longer.

They fretted about the growing risks of keeping borrowing costs at a
historically low level, according to an account of the meeting that the Fed
published on Wednesday. They also expressed confidence, albeit with some
reservations, that the economy was ready for higher rates.

The exuberant reaction of financial markets to Donald J. Trump's victory has
strengthened the case for higher rates, and solidified expectations that the Fed
will act at its next meeting in December.

The early November meeting was something of a placeholder. The Fed was seen as
unlikely to move on the eve of the election. Officials had decided they were not
quite ready to raise rates at their previous meeting, in September, and the
account noted that they did not have much new data to consider.

But the latest meeting's account portrays a sense of growing urgency among the
17 members of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed committee that sets the
course of monetary policy.

''Many judged that risks to economic and financial stability could increase over
time if the labor market overheated appreciably, or expressed concern that an
extended period of low-interest rates risked intensifying incentives for
investors to reach for yield, potentially leading to a mispricing of risk and
misallocation of capital,'' it said. The account was published after a standard
three-week delay.

The Fed said that the case for a rate increase had ''strengthened'' after the
November meeting. Janet L. Yellen, the Fed's chairwoman, went a little further
last week, telling a congressional committee that an increase in the Fed's
benchmark interest rate ''could well become appropriate relatively soon.''

The meeting account is in the same key. Two officials voted to raise rates in
November, and the minutes said others were already convinced that the Fed should
move in December, given its stated objectives. Moreover, the account said,
''Most participants expressed a view that it could well become appropriate to
raise the target range for the federal funds rate relatively soon, so long as
incoming data provided some further evidence of continued progress toward the
committee's objectives.''

Markets have received the message. Some analysts warned before the election that
Mr. Trump's victory could upset financial markets and lead the Fed to push back
a rate increase. So far, the opposite has happened. Markets have rallied and
expectations of a December rate increase have solidified. The probability
derived from asset prices stood at 94 percent on Wednesday.

Investors are responding in part to Mr. Trump's economic plans. He has promised
to collaborate with congressional Republicans on a large tax cut and other
measures intended to stimulate economic growth. Fed officials have all but
begged for fiscal authorities to take a stronger hand, in part because they are
eager to dial back their own efforts, and push rates up toward more normal
levels.

Yet the markets' reaction to Mr. Trump's victory also creates some new problems.

''The timing and scope of these actions is still highly uncertain,'' said James
Marple, senior economist at TD Bank. ''In the meantime, interest- and
exchange-rate sensitive sectors of the economy like housing and trade will take
a hit, suggesting some downside risk to economic growth.''

The Fed has kept its benchmark rate between 0.25 and 0.5 percent since last
December. The policy is intended to bolster economic activity by encouraging
borrowing and risk-taking, but it has raised concerns that the Fed is
encouraging too much borrowing and risk-taking.

In addition, Fed officials have concluded that labor market conditions are
unlikely to further improve, although the share of adults with jobs is
significantly below the prerecession level.

The account takes pains to emphasize that the Fed is planning a slow retreat.
And it sounded a cautionary note about the strength of growth in the third
quarter. The economy expanded at an annual rate of 2.9 percent, but Fed
officials pointed to a number of unusual factors, including a boom in soybean
exports.

''Excluding these factors, underlying economic growth had been relatively
modest,'' the account said. ''Growth of consumer spending had slowed from its
brisk pace earlier in the year, residential investment had fallen again, and
business fixed investment had remained soft.''

Inflation has increased a little faster than the Fed expected in recent months,
although it remains below the 2 percent annual pace that the Fed regards as
healthy. Some officials advocating a rate increase argue that inflation will
begin to rise more quickly as labor markets tighten. That, in turn, could force
the Fed to raise rates more quickly, potentially disrupting economic activity.

But the Fed's concerns about inflation remain relatively subdued. Ms. Yellen
told Congress last week that she saw little chance of a sharp rise in inflation.
The weakness of the global economy continues to weigh on domestic inflation, in
part by pushing up the value of the dollar.

Mr. Trump's election also has pushed the dollar sharply higher.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/business/economy/federal-reserve-interest-rate
s-meeting-minutes-yellen.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janet L. Yellen, in testimony to the Joint Economic Committee
last week, said that an interest rate increase ''could well become appropriate
relatively soon.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY
IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             271 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Fifth Avenue Is Learning to Cope

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SCHNEIER; Valeriya Safronova contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1445 words


It is the beginning of the holiday shopping season on Fifth Avenue, even if the
festive spirit is dampened a bit by the long guns of stationed police officers
and the regular presence of bomb-sniffing dogs.

Some of the city's most storied stores have found themselves blocked behind
police barricades. In the days since the presidential election, protesters have
come through angrily, shutting down Fifth Avenue, filling the streets from Trump
Tower at East 56th Street down to the Valentino store between 54th and 55th
Streets and beyond.

Even when the protesters take their placards elsewhere, camera-wielding gawkers
loiter on the sidewalk, gazing up at the tower where Donald J. Trump, the
president-elect, is taking meetings.

Pedestrian access is largely restricted on the east side of Fifth Avenue between
56th and 57th Streets, where Mr. Trump both lives and works. So outside
Tiffany's, Trump Tower's neighbor to the north, and Gucci, whose Fifth Avenue
flagship is within the tower (though with its own entrance), scarf-wearing
employees have been dispatched to the sidewalk, doing their best to usher
shoppers, following police bag checks, past the barricades.

In the final months of the Obama presidency, as the president-elect plans his
transition, Trump Tower has become the seat of power. For neighboring retailers,
the congestion, the blockages, the protests and the occasional street closures
have already affected foot traffic and are a cause for concern: The holiday
season accounts for an outsize stake of retail business.

''You always hear the number 40 percent for Christmas,'' said Dan Biederman, the
president of the 34th Street Partnership, a neighboring Business Improvement
District.

On a recent weekday, Maria Mammis, a regular visitor and Fifth Avenue shopper
from Montreal, was walking by the barricades as quickly as she could in
teetering stilettos. ''I'll avoid all these shops,'' she said. ''We're avoiding
this whole area. It's terrible.''

Few retailers care to admit they are worried. Major brands, including Louis
Vuitton, Armani and Polo Ralph Lauren, all of which have stores nearby, declined
to comment; inside stores, clerks and security guards said they were
specifically instructed not to talk about anything ''political.''

For those who would, a spirit of make-do reigns.

''We've been through a lot of different things,'' said Jeff Bennett, a market
vice president of Tiffany who oversees the Fifth Avenue flagship. ''We've been a
resilient New Yorker for nearly 180 years.''

The company has been in frequent communication with the New York Police
Department and the Secret Service regarding safety and security, and decided to
cancel two events in the immediate aftermath of the election: one celebrating
its capsule collection with Eddie Borgo on Nov. 10 (it was rescheduled for early
December) and one to unveil the holiday windows on Nov. 14.

Nevertheless, the holiday windows are up and customers are finding their way
around the obstructions, Mr. Bennett said. (Helping Tiffany is the fact that the
store also has an entrance on East 57th Street.) Tiffany declined to discuss
specifics of foot traffic or sales numbers.

''For international tourists, it's creating a little bit of excitement,'' Mr.
Bennett said. ''Occasionally, when it's appropriate, the police and our Tiffany
ambassadors are taking pictures. The combination of our ambassadors and the
N.Y.P.D. out there, it's creating a nice environment.''

For one couple, who wanted to get engaged at Tiffany, the aid of ''a very
understanding member of New York's Finest'' became ''a memorable part of their
proposal and their lives together,'' Mr. Bennett said.

A representative for Gucci declined to comment on how the agitation and
blockages had affected the store.

The response from the city was not initially sympathetic. ''I will not tell you
that Gucci and Tiffany are my central concerns in life,'' Mayor Bill de Blasio
said at a news conference held outside of Trump Tower, following a meeting with
the president-elect on Nov. 16.

But at a subsequent news conference on Nov. 18, the mayor and the police
commissioner, James P. O'Neill, announced their intention to keep Fifth Avenue
open, following three temporary closures in the immediate aftermath of the
election and the protests that followed.

''We are devoted to making sure the city will keep moving,'' Mr. de Blasio said.
''This is a big challenge and an unprecedented challenge, we know that. We're
committed to making it work.''

He said that he was ''very concerned to make sure that businesses continue to
thrive, continue to be able to serve their customers and do well,'' but also
asked that New Yorkers avoid the area between 53rd and 57th Streets, between
Madison Avenue and Avenue of the Americas, ''to the maximum extent possible,'' a
request not likely to please those retailers in this high-priced luxury
corridor, where rents can run a reported $5,000 per square foot.

(The commotion has already raised the hackles of the Momofuku restaurateur David
Chang, who has tweeted his displeasure at traffic disruptions on 56th Street,
where his Má Pêche restaurant is.)

On Fifth Avenue between 56th and 57th alone, there are stores for Abercrombie &
Fitch and Prada, as well as the multiunit Crown Building at 730 Fifth Avenue,
home to Mikimoto, Piaget and Bulgari. Ermenegildo Zegna plans to open a store
there. Jason Maurer, the leasing agent for the property, declined to discuss the
building.

''We are hopeful that a solution can be found to address the security concerns
while allowing for New York residents and visitors to continue enjoying Fifth
Avenue, the country's pre-eminent shopping district,'' Joshua Schulman, the
president of Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus International, wrote in a
statement. ''We were pleased to unveil our holiday windows on Tuesday, November
15 without any issues, and we have not modified our hours of operation or our
entrances.''

But those in the epicenter of the ongoing commotion are likely in for continued
disruption, especially given the announcement that Melania Trump and the
couple's son, Barron, are to stay in New York until the end of the school year.
The president-elect plans to move to the White House, said Hope Hicks, a
spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, though speculation endures that he will continue to
spend time in New York.

''It's going to be terrible for those poor retailers that are between 55th and
57th,'' said Joseph Sitt, the chief executive of Thor Equities, a landlord,
developer and leasing agent with commercial properties up and down Fifth.
''Everyone between 55th and 57th has a nightmare on their hands.''

Representatives of the Fifth Avenue Business Improvement District, which
includes the area, did not respond to requests for comment.

At Henri Bendel, on Fifth Avenue between 55th and 56th, anti-Trump protests had
forced the store to close a few times and to reschedule a holiday shopping
event.

''We obviously have been affected by that,'' said Pina Ferlisi, Bendel's
creative director. ''We had to close three times, as a lot of other businesses
in the area had to.''

The store's holiday display, a ''Love Wall'' of painted hearts by the artist
James Goldcrown, ended up being ''kind of timely,'' Ms. Ferlisi said. Mr.
Goldcrown was at Henri Bendel installing the wall the night after the election,
as protests raged outside.

''I don't think any of us really knew what we were in for,'' he said. ''It was
just bonkers. It was very exciting, actually.''

Asked whether business has since returned to normal, Ms. Ferlisi said that
Bendel is busy. ''Our focus is on giving our customers the best holiday shopping
experience on Fifth Avenue,'' she said. ''It's the new normal.''

Shoppers are adjusting as well.

''I was determined to buy sunglasses,'' said Marina Rabinovich, a Brooklynite
who had a stroller with her infant -- and bags from Christian Louboutin and
Tiffany -- in tow. ''The barricades don't bother me. For New Yorkers, it's not a
problem.''

Indeed, said Mr. Sitt, Trump Tower could serve as a boon to retailers a few
blocks south, functioning as a new tourist attraction and ''anchor'' for Fifth
Avenue. South of ''bedlam,'' as he called the area between 55th and 57th on
Fifth, ''they're doing business like they haven't done it in a while.''

''Their business are booming, booming, booming,'' Mr. Sitt said. ''Somebody
joked with me that they're even getting tons of business from the protesters.
It's come, protest, shop.''

Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and
Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/fashion/fifth-avenue-holiday-shopping-donald-t
rump-tower-protesters.html

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters outside the Valentino store on Fifth Avenue near
Trump Tower. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ILAN ZECHORY) (D1)
 Above, shoppers make their way around police barricades on Fifth Avenue. Top,
armed officers at Trump Tower, next to an ad for the children's line of Gucci,
which has a store in the building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (D4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             272 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Candidates Fed a Focus on Character Over Policy

BYLINE: By LYNN VAVRECK; ,'' about the 2012 presidential campaign.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE 2016 RACE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 976 words


If you think back to this year's presidential campaign and recall a lot of
articles mentioning Hillary Clinton's email troubles and Donald J. Trump's
various controversies, you wouldn't be wrong. If it seems there were fewer
articles about jobs, the economy and taxes, that's because there were. The
temptation to blame news organizations for this imbalance is strong, but there
is at least some reason to resist it. Critics have long assailed campaign
coverage as focused too much on candidate personality, campaign strategy and
assessments of who's winning, instead of on policies and ideas. But this year,
the candidates share the blame.

I compared the content of campaign ads with the content of news articles about
two specific topics: candidate traits or characteristics, and the economy or
jobs. Both the candidates and news organizations spent more time discussing the
candidates' fitness for office (or lack of it) than they did the nation's
economy. And the imbalance grew more lopsided as the election approached.

Using analytic tools provided by Crimson Hexagon, I categorized the campaign
news coverage of 23 media outlets. This consisted of four broadcast networks;
three cable news networks; National Public Radio and Hugh Hewitt on the radio;
two online news sites; and 12 newspapers.

I specifically searched for news about Mrs. Clinton's campaign and her email
server or her campaign and WikiLeaks, and several controversies connected to Mr.
Trump's campaign (including things like Trump University, the Khan family and
the ''Access Hollywood'' video).

I also looked for news about the candidates' campaign appeals on the economy and
jobs. This list isn't exhaustive, but it gives a sense of the trade-off between
coverage of these controversies and the economy.

The candidates' controversies received more coverage, on average, than their
views on the economy. From June until Election Day, 38 percent of the stories
mentioned Mr. Trump's various missteps, and 35 percent mentioned Mrs. Clinton's
email.

Only 17 percent mentioned Mr. Trump and jobs or the economy, and only 10 percent
cited Mrs. Clinton's campaign and the economy.

Closer to the election, from Oct. 8 on, the numbers got even more lopsided. This
was an important date -- just after the release of the ''Access Hollywood''
video and a few weeks before F.B.I. Director James B. Comey's letter to
Congress. From this point, 53 percent of the campaign articles mentioning either
controversies or the economy discuss Mrs. Clinton's email, while only 6 percent
mention her alongside jobs or the economy. As for Mr. Trump, 31 percent mention
his entanglements, while 10 percent mention him related to jobs and the economy.

The imbalance in coverage of the candidates' character is striking, as is the
lack of coverage about the economy compared with the controversies. Moving one
week past the video release, between Oct. 15 and Election Day, roughly half (56
percent) of the stories about scandals and the economy mentioned Mrs. Clinton's
emails, and only a quarter (26 percent) discussed Mr. Trump and his imbroglios.
A mere 7 percent of the stories in these last three weeks mentioned Mrs. Clinton
and the economy (11 percent mentioned Mr. Trump and the economy).

These choices have consequences. According to the Gallup Organization,
Americans' reports of what they heard or read about Mrs. Clinton between June
and September were mainly references to her handling of emails during her time
as secretary of state. In contrast, mentions of Mr. Trump changed week by week,
tracking what was happening on the campaign trail.

But before anyone blames the news media, it's important to examine what the
candidates themselves were talking about over the course of the campaign. If
media reports reflect candidate discourse accurately, then it is not merely the
media choosing to report on scandals. It might be at least as much the
candidates' choosing to campaign on them that results in unending coverage of
traits and characteristics.

To figure out if this was the case, I used data from Kantar Media/CMAG on all
the candidates' campaign ads aired between June and Election Day. I coded all of
the appeals in each ad and weighted the appeals by how many times the ads ran on
television. Mrs. Clinton made more ads than Mr. Trump, and she vastly
out-advertised him, running nearly three times as many ads as he did. All told,
over half a million ads were run in 2016 during this period.

The content of the ads is revealing. Both candidates spent most of their
television advertising time attacking the other person's character. In fact, the
losing candidate's ads did little else. More than three-quarters of the appeals
in Mrs. Clinton's advertisements (and nearly half of Mr. Trump's) were about
traits, characteristics or dispositions. Only 9 percent of Mrs. Clinton's
appeals in her ads were about jobs or the economy. By contrast, 34 percent of
Mr. Trump's appeals focused on the economy, jobs, taxes and trade.

Since the start of presidential campaign television advertising in 1952, no
campaign has made 76 percent of its television ad appeals about any single
topic. On average, traits typically garner about 22 percent of the appeals. The
economy typically generates about 28 percent of the appeals. There's usually
much more balance.

Of course, this was an unusual election year, with two very unpopular
candidates, so the candidates' flaws may have simply been too big a story for
either them or the media to pass up. Whatever the reason, the criterion of
fitness for office dominated the Clinton campaign's messaging and made up a good
share of the Trump messaging as well, and the news media covered it.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/23/upshot/this-election-was-not-about-the-issues-
blame-the-candidates.html

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             273 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quest to Find a Trump-Sign Thief Leads to Fines and Suspicions of Bias

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 739 words


In the run-up to the presidential election, New York City was hardly Trump
territory.

And every time Michael Ricatto put another display of Trump campaign signs up on
the lawn of his sizable white house on Abingdon Road in Kew Gardens, Queens,
last summer, they were stolen or knocked down, actions that would later set off
a series of events as unpredictable as the election itself.

Infuriated by the thefts, as well as an obscenity about Donald J. Trump that had
been spray-painted on the public mailbox in front of his house, Mr. Ricatto
installed a security camera.

It captured a grainy image of a sign-stealer. Mr. Ricatto, 59 and a real estate
investor, then printed fliers bearing the image and a $5,000 reward offer for
information leading to the arrest of the sign thief. He hired some local
teenagers to post the signs around the neighborhood with tape. When the tape ran
out, he said, the teenagers used a stapler to post the fliers to trees on the
streets.

The hubbub made the news, and the stapling method was mentioned. In the weeks
that followed, a team of enforcement officers from the parks department arrived
at Mr. Ricatto's house, he said, and issued him 22 summonses with fines totaling
$1,500 and citing unauthorized posting and ''minor tree damage'' to 11 trees.

To Mr. Ricatto, his real transgression was supporting Mr. Trump, a Republican,
which he claims annoyed Democratic city officials.

''Let's call it staple-gate,'' said Mr. Ricatto, who calls himself a
conservative, a proud gun owner and a fan of Ronald Reagan and John Wayne.

A supporter of Mr. Trump's Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, would never
have been cited in this situation, he fumed, and said that official parks
department signs are often affixed to trees with similar staples.

''People in New York City don't like conservatives,'' he said. ''They wanted to
teach me a lesson about being outspoken, and about who I believe in. So they
found something to hang their hat on.''

Mr. Ricatto said he paid the summonses because ''I didn't want the headache'' of
fighting them, nor the expense of hiring a lawyer.

Instead of backing down, he splurged on a larger Trump banner to hang in front
of his house, and he called the prominent civil rights lawyer Ron Kuby to see if
he had any grounds to sue the city for damages claiming political bias.

In an interview, Mr. Kuby said that he thought the summons was ''a wild
overreaction'' by the city, but that a suit by Mr. Ricatto claiming ''selective
enforcement based on his Trump leanings would be difficult case to make.''

A parks department spokesman dismissed the claim that the summonses were
political and called them a routine penalty for damage to the trees.

''The fine had nothing to do with the content of the signs Mr. Ricatto posted
and everything to do with the fact that staples can damage and even kill
trees,'' the spokesman, Sam Biederman, said in a statement. He added that the
fine was determined by the city's administrative court and ''not based on the
amount of damage or the cost associated, but rather on the rule broken.''

The order to cite Mr. Ricatto set off something of a parallel episode within the
parks department.

An enforcement supervisor ordered a sergeant to write the 22 tickets. But the
sergeant, Joe Oro, 54, refused, arguing that it was improper to write summonses
weeks after the signs had been removed, with no witnesses to the violations.

''They were bogus summonses,'' said Sergeant Oro, a veteran with 29 years on the
job. ''I might as well hit every dog owner who puts up a 'lost puppy' sign.''

He said he also consulted a superior officer, ''and he told me, 'Stay out of it
-- it's too political.'''

A rookie officer wound up writing the summons, said Sergeant Oro, who has had
previous run-ins with the agency as an outspoken member of his union, Local 983
of DC 37.

The local's president, Joe Puleo, characterized department officials as using
the officers as ''pawns for their political favoritism'' in this case.

Sergeant Oro said he was included in an email conversation about possibly
forcing Mr. Ricatto to pay $41,000 in damage for the staple holes, a proposition
that an agency lawyer replied to incredulously, in the email chain.

As for Mr. Ricatto, President-elect Trump's victory is a bit of revenge. Last
week, he bought and hung a new, larger banner.

''I Told You So,'' the banner reads. ''Trump Trump Trump Trump.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/24/nyregion/how-trump-signs-led-to-a-tangle-over-
city-trees.html

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Ricatto at his home in Queens this week. When his Trump
signs were stolen last summer, he stapled fliers to trees to try to catch the
thief, drawing fines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             274 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Filling Top Post at State Dept. Divides G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and MAGGIE HABERMAN; Jeremy W. Peters reported from
Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Michael S. Schmidt contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words


WASHINGTON -- Rival factions of Republicans are locked in an increasingly
caustic and public battle to influence President-elect Donald J. Trump's choice
for secretary of state, leaving a prominent hole in an otherwise quickly formed
national security team that is unlikely to be filled until next week at the
earliest.

The debate inside Mr. Trump's wide circle of formal and informal advisers --
pitting supporters of one leading contender, Mitt Romney, against those of
another, Rudolph W. Giuliani -- has led to the kind of dramatic airing of
differences that characterized Mr. Trump's unconventional and often squabbling
campaign team.

And it traces the outlines of the enduring split in the Republican Party between
establishment figures who scoffed at Mr. Trump's chances of victory and the
grass-roots insurgents who backed him as a disrupter of the Washington power
structure.

The most publicly vocal faction has been the group opposed to Mr. Romney, which
has questioned whether he would be loyal after his searing criticism of Mr.
Trump during the campaign. But Mr. Trump himself has told aides that he believes
Mr. Romney ''looks the part'' and would make a fine secretary of state, a senior
Trump official said on Thursday. Mr. Trump, who is always difficult to read and
is capable of changing his mind at any minute, has also praised Mr. Giuliani in
recent conversations with acquaintances.

Even Thanksgiving did not provide a reprieve from the extraordinary public
efforts to cast doubt on Mr. Romney. Mr. Trump's campaign manager, Kellyanne
Conway, said on Twitter that she had received ''a deluge'' of concern from
people warning against picking Mr. Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential
nominee and former Massachusetts governor.

Those raising concerns about Mr. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor and an
early and loyal supporter of Mr. Trump, have said they fear that his tangle of
foreign business ties could lead to a damaging confirmation battle. They are
also worried that Mr. Giuliani lacks the vigor for the globe-trotting job.

Both Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani have made their interest in the role known to
Mr. Trump. But while Mr. Giuliani has been very public about his intentions --
angering Mr. Trump at times with his statements -- Mr. Romney has been more
reserved.

The split over the two men has opened the door for another candidate altogether.
One potential pick Mr. Trump and his team have entertained is Gen. John Kelly of
the Marines, a former head of the United States Southern Command. Others are
David H. Petraeus, the retired general and former C.I.A. director, and Senator
Bob Corker of Tennessee, according to two people involved in the process.

Asked about Mr. Trump's deliberations, a spokesman, Jason Miller, said in an
email Thursday, ''The president-elect is meeting with a number of well-qualified
potential selections for this important position who share his America First
foreign policy -- some of whom have been made public and others who have not --
and the president-elect will make public his decision when he has finalized
it.''

Mr. Romney would represent a departure from the hard-liners Mr. Trump has
already picked for his national security team. But aides like Stephen K. Bannon,
Mr. Trump's chief strategist, have expressed doubts about how loyal Mr. Romney
would be given his denunciation of Mr. Trump as a ''phony'' and a ''fraud.'' Mr.
Bannon and others have told colleagues they fear that a State Department under
Mr. Romney could turn into something of a rogue agency.

Asked to explain her Twitter post about Mr. Romney, Ms. Conway said that while
she trusted Mr. Trump's judgment, she found it notable that the most outrage
directed at Mr. Trump from the party's grass-roots ''is not against something he
said, but something he may do.'' In another post, she said that being ''loyal''
was an important characteristic for a secretary of state.

Others hoping to catch Mr. Trump's ear have taken their message to a place they
know he is likely to absorb it: cable news. Joe Scarborough, the MSNBC host, who
has spoken with Mr. Trump about his concerns that Mr. Giuliani would not be
confirmed by the Senate, has taken to making those arguments on a daily basis on
his morning show, which he knows Mr. Trump watches.

Others, like Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker, and Mike
Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, have gone on television to try to
dissuade Mr. Trump from picking Mr. Romney. Mr. Huckabee, who said during the
2008 presidential campaign that Mr. Romney reminded voters of ''the guy who laid
them off,'' told Fox News on Wednesday that picking Mr. Romney would be ''a real
insult'' to Mr. Trump's supporters. Mr. Giuliani is a favorite of the Republican
voters who turned out in large numbers to lift Mr. Trump to victory.

Sean Hannity, a Fox News host whose opinion Mr. Trump often privately solicits,
has also been deeply critical of Mr. Romney on his show.

Shortly after the election, Mr. Giuliani told associates that he believed the
job was his. He had communicated to Mr. Trump's top advisers that it was the
only post he was interested in, according to the people briefed on the
discussions.

But he began to run afoul of Mr. Trump when he told a Wall Street Journal forum
that he would probably be a better candidate than John Bolton, who served as one
of George W. Bush's ambassadors to the United Nations.

And when reports surfaced about Mr. Giuliani's foreign business entanglements
and highly compensated speechmaking, Mr. Trump grew even warier. His firm,
Giuliani Partners, has had contracts with the government of Qatar, and Mr.
Giuliani has given paid speeches to a shadowy Iranian opposition group that
until 2012 was on the State Department's list of foreign terrorist
organizations.

As a backup plan, some of Mr. Trump's aides encouraged him to meet with Mr.
Romney. Though some in Mr. Trump's inner circle, like Reince Priebus, his choice
for chief of staff, thought that such a meeting would anger the
president-elect's supporters, Mr. Trump went ahead, and he started sounding Mr.
Giuliani out about a different post, director of national intelligence.

But what many people believed would be a perfunctory meeting with Mr. Romney
last weekend at Mr. Trump's golf club in Bedminster, N.J., turned into something
more substantial.

Mr. Trump liked Mr. Romney quite a bit, and was intrigued by the possibility of
such a camera-ready option to represent the country around the globe, advisers
to Mr. Trump said. The following day, Mr. Giuliani met with Mr. Trump and urged
him to make a decision in one direction or the other.

Mr. Romney, who was mocked in 2012 when he described Russia as the greatest
geopolitical foe of the United States, has seen his stock in the Republican
Party rise since his loss to President Obama, although he is still viewed
skeptically by the party's grass-roots. His allies believe that his position on
Russia has been vindicated, but it is starkly at odds with Mr. Trump's stated
desire for a better relationship with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin.

Privately, Mr. Giuliani has expressed his frustration at going from front-runner
for secretary of state to a contender who has to convince Mr. Trump of his
strengths. He is particularly irritated over the focus on his business ties.

The option of a third person like General Kelly has gained currency in recent
days inside the transition team. A respected leader, General Kelly served as the
senior military assistant to former Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta. He led
the Southern Command, responsible for all United States military activities in
South and Central America, for four years under Mr. Obama. And his appointment
would fit Mr. Trump's inclination toward putting people with combat experience
in senior foreign policy roles.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/24/us/politics/donald-trump-mitt-romney-rudy-giul
iani-state.html

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MITT ROMNEY: The 2012 Republican presidential nominee is one of
Donald J. Trump's leading candidates for secretary of state.
RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI: The former mayor of New York City was an early and loyal
supporter of Mr. Trump's campaign. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HILARY SWIFT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
 GEN. JOHN F. KELLY: A Marine and the former head of the United States Southern
Command has emerged as an alternative pick. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             275 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Should We Give This President-Elect a Chance?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 373 words


To the Editor:

Re ''12 Steps for Voters in Despair,'' by Nicholas Kristof (column, Nov. 17):

In the last two presidential elections, the candidate I voted for lost. I did
not do the following: cry for three days; wear muted colors; decide that the
Electoral College system is faulty; take to the streets with a vicious message
on a sign; threaten to move to Canada.

Politics is always about power. It's no different this time. The reaction of the
aggrieved is nothing more than poor sportsmanship dressed up to look noble. They
believe that theirs is a righteous despair, but all that has happened is that a
candidate they disliked won, voted in by people they misjudged as their
inferiors and therefore not entitled to select a president.

I didn't want either candidate, but I will give Donald Trump a chance because
Hillary Clinton asked us to, because I respect the process and because I have
faith in a government framework intended to disseminate power.

MARGARET McGIRR

Greenwich, Conn.

To the Editor:

Re ''Let's Now Hope Trump Succeeds,'' by Nicholas Kristof (column, Nov. 10):

Like many, I have serious concerns about the election of Donald Trump to the
presidency. But people with these concerns should calm down and wait to see what
he will do first. Let him earn the outrage, if indeed he does. The signals are
mixed at this point that he will become that demagogue the founders so worried
about.

It will not be helpful to the country if those on the left or anyone with
serious concerns becomes just as extreme as those on the far right. I agree
fully with Mr. Kristof on this point: Let's grit our teeth, give him a chance
and hold him strictly to account.

CHRISTOPHER FOLLENUS

Windermere, Fla.

To the Editor:

Nicholas Kristof writes, ''Having lost, we owe it to our nation to grit our
teeth and give President-elect Trump a chance.''

Does Mr. Kristof believe that we Americans still need to give Donald Trump a
chance now that he's appointed Stephen K. Bannon as his top adviser? At what
point will we know that we've given Mr. Trump enough of a chance? When the last
of 11 million undocumented immigrants is deported? When women must flee to
Canada for abortions?

CHRISTOPHER PAVSEK

Vancouver, British Columbia




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/25/opinion/should-we-give-this-president-elect-a-
chance.html

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             276 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump Picks Washington Veterans for Critical Legal and Security Posts

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Reporting was contributed by Maggie Haberman and Trip
Gabriel from New York, and Jeremy W. Peters and Eric Lichtblau from Washington.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1217 words


WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald J. Trump filled two lower-profile but
influential White House staff jobs on Friday, while his high-profile candidate
for secretary of housing and urban development, Ben Carson, continued to
deliberate about whether to join the administration.

Mr. Trump offered the housing job  this week to Mr. Carson, a neurosurgeon who
challenged him for the Republican presidential nomination. But despite
expectations of a Friday announcement, Mr. Carson was ''still pondering,'' said
a friend, Armstrong Williams. The president-elect's aides said Mr. Trump did not
plan any more cabinet-level announcements until next week.

For the politically sensitive post of White House counsel, Mr. Trump chose
Donald F. McGahn II, a Washington election lawyer who pushed to deregulate
campaign finance and election laws. The counsel's job may be even more daunting
than it was in previous administrations, given Mr. Trump's far-flung business
empire, with which he shows no inclination toward severing ties.

For the equally critical job of deputy national security adviser, Mr. Trump
chose K. T. McFarland, an aide in three Republican White Houses and a Fox News
commentator. She has been highly critical of President Obama's approach to
combating terrorism -- a view that aligns her with Mr. Trump's choice for
national security adviser, Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn.

In rolling out the appointments, the Trump transition team lined up testimonials
from big names in both parties.

Former Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, regarded as a foreign policy hawk, praised
Ms. McFarland, 65, as ''one of our country's most experienced, informed and wise
foreign policy and national security experts.'' Mr. Lieberman, a Connecticut
Democrat turned independent, was a Yale College and law school classmate of Ms.
McFarland's husband, Alan R. McFarland, a well-known investment banker.

Edwin Meese III, an attorney general under President Ronald Reagan, said Mr.
McGahn, who was the general counsel for the Trump campaign, had ''dealt ably
with the intersection between politics, government ethics and the rule of law.''
C. Boyden Gray, a White House counsel to the elder President George Bush, said
Mr. McGahn was well suited to the job because of his ''serious prior
relationship with the president'' and his ''working knowledge of government
ethics and election law.''

A brash, guitar-playing conservative born in Atlantic City, Mr. McGahn learned
the fine points of election law from a longtime Republican expert in the field,
Benjamin L. Ginsberg.

At the Federal Election Commission, where he served five years, including terms
as chairman and vice chairman, Mr. McGahn was a powerful voice of opposition to
what he often saw as intrusive government meddling in elections. He also spent
nearly a decade as the general counsel to the National Republican Congressional
Committee.

Ms. McFarland's national security experience dates to the Nixon administration,
when she was an aide to Henry A. Kissinger. She was a staff member on the Senate
Armed Services Committee, a speechwriter for Defense Secretary Caspar W.
Weinberger, and the principal deputy assistant secretary of defense for public
affairs.

She is a familiar presence on Fox News, where she has harshly criticized Mr.
Obama over his handling of the Islamic State. ''The president has stuck his head
in the sand,'' she said in September 2014 after the group had kidnapped and
executed two American journalists.

''To me, it's a dereliction of duty,'' she added. ''What was this president
doing? Well, he was playing a lot of golf this summer, but he clearly was not
attending to the defense of the United States.''

In 2006, Ms. McFarland mounted a bid for the Republican nomination for the
Senate in New York. The mayor of Yonkers, John Spencer, defeated her and went on
to lose to the Democratic incumbent, Hillary Clinton. During the campaign, Ms.
McFarland came under scrutiny for gilding her résumé -- claiming, for example,
that she had been the highest-ranking woman in the Pentagon when, in fact, two
other women outranked her.

The deputy national security adviser has one of the most demanding jobs in the
West Wing, coordinating meetings of deputies and principals to formulate
policies and organizing the vast flow of paperwork from the agencies to the
White House.

''That job is the ultimate policy nuts-and-bolts and paper-pushing job,'' said
Peter D. Feaver, who served in the National Security Council under President
George W. Bush. ''It is all about reviewing policies, framing disagreements and
teeing up decisions. It is supposed to be the place where bad ideas die, and so
places a premium on analytical insight.''

''Her early work in the Reagan administration is more important than her recent
work on TV,'' he said of Ms. McFarland.

As Mr. Trumps fills key staff positions, some of his cabinet decisions have
become complicated. The search for a secretary of state has bogged down as rival
factions argue for Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York mayor and a Trump
loyalist, and Mitt Romney, the former Republican presidential nominee, who
stridently opposed Mr. Trump during the campaign.

Among those raising questions about Mr. Giuliani is Vice President-elect Mike
Pence, according to people in the Trump transition who spoke on the condition of
anonymity to discuss sensitive internal matters. Mr. Pence, they said, has
favored Mr. Romney in internal discussions. Reince Priebus, whom Mr. Trump named
as chief of staff, has said positive things about Mr. Romney but has been more
circumspect, and has tried to offer perspective to Mr. Trump on both men.

But other people, including Kellyanne Conway, who managed the campaign, have
raised questions about Mr. Romney's loyalty after he became one of the most
vocal critics of Mr. Trump's candidacy. Mr. Trump has remarked to people that he
was surprised by the intense resistance to Mr. Romney.

Mr. Romney and Mr. Trump spoke again in recent days, according to people briefed
on the deliberations, and plan to speak again early next week. But some of Mr.
Romney's allies, who have no interest in seeing him apologize for criticizing
Mr. Trump during the campaign, say privately that his chances of being chosen
are dimming.

With Mr. Carson, the delay appears to be less about fissures within the Trump
camp than within Mr. Carson himself.

''He's still pondering, believe it or not,'' Mr. Williams, his friend, said on
Friday. ''Dr. Carson is very methodical, just like he's going through a surgery,
planning every aspect.''

Mr. Carson endorsed Mr. Trump after ending his own campaign. But he has appeared
conflicted about joining the administration. Last week, Mr. Williams was quoted
as saying his friend was reluctant to take a job for which he had no experience
and that ''could cripple the presidency.''

Mr. Carson, however, then took to Facebook, where he has built much of his
grass-roots political following, to say his reasons for declining a cabinet job
had been misreported. He was on Facebook again on Wednesday, explaining his
change of heart.

''After serious discussions with the Trump transition team,'' Mr. Carson wrote,
''I feel that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our
inner cities great for everyone.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/25/us/politics/donald-trump-kt-mcfarland.html

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donald F. McGahn II, left, at Trump Tower last week, was chosen
on Friday to be White House counsel. K. T. McFarland, above, debating during a
2006 Senate run, was named deputy national security adviser. She has worked for
three presidents. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANGEL CHEVRESTT)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             277 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Officials Stand by Vote Despite Fears

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Trip Gabriel contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration said on Friday that despite Russian
attempts to undermine the presidential election, it has concluded that the
results ''accurately reflect the will of the American people.''

The statement came as liberal opponents of Donald J. Trump, some citing fears of
vote hacking, are seeking recounts in three states -- Wisconsin, Michigan and
Pennsylvania -- where his margin of victory was extremely thin.

A drive by Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate, for recounts in those states
had brought in more than $5 million by midday on Friday, her campaign said, and
had increased its goal to $7 million. She filed for a recount in Wisconsin on
Friday, about an hour before the deadline.

In its statement, the administration said, ''The Kremlin probably expected that
publicity surrounding the disclosures that followed the Russian
government-directed compromises of emails from U.S. persons and institutions,
including from U.S. political organizations, would raise questions about the
integrity of the election process that could have undermined the legitimacy of
the president-elect.''

That was a reference to the breach of the Democratic National Committee's email
system, and the leak of emails from figures like John D. Podesta, Hillary
Clinton's campaign chairman.

''Nevertheless, we stand behind our election results, which accurately reflect
the will of the American people,'' it added.

Supporters of Mrs. Clinton have enthusiastically backed the notion of
challenging the results in the three states as a last-ditch effort to reverse
Mr. Trump's clear majority in the Electoral College. They have seized on
suggestions by some computer scientists that the states, which were crucial to
Mr. Trump's victory, need to manually review paper ballots to ensure the
election was not hacked.

The campaign, uniting around the hashtag #AuditTheVote, has picked up momentum
among grass-roots activists still mourning Mr. Trump's victory. But the pleas
for recounts have gained no support from the Clinton campaign, which has
concluded that it is highly unlikely to change the outcome.

In Michigan, Ms. Stein must wait for a Monday meeting of the state's Board of
Canvassers to certify the results of the Nov. 8 balloting before filing for a
recount. In Pennsylvania, where paper ballots are used only in some areas,
election officials said that the deadline to petition for a recount had passed,
but that a candidate could challenge the result in court before a Monday
deadline.

The recount efforts have generated pushback by experts who said it would be
enormously difficult to hack voting machines on a large scale. The
administration, in its statement, confirmed reports from the Department of
Homeland Security and intelligence officials that they did not see ''any
increased level of malicious cyberactivity aimed at disrupting our electoral
process on Election Day.''

The administration said it remained ''confident in the overall integrity of
electoral infrastructure, a confidence that was borne out.'' It added: ''As a
result, we believe our elections were free and fair from a cybersecurity
perspective.''

However, intelligence officials are still investigating the impact of a broader
Russian ''information warfare'' campaign, in which fake news about Mrs. Clinton,
and about United States-Russia relations, appeared intended to influence voters.
Many of those false reports originated from RT News and Sputnik, two
state-funded Russian sites.

Those fake-news reports were widely circulated on social media, independent
studies, including one set for release soon, have shown, sometimes in an
organized fashion by groups that appear to have had common ownership.
Individuals, conservative talk-show hosts and activists recirculated them, often
not knowing, or apparently not caring, about the accuracy of the reports.

A study published just before the election on warontherocks.com, written by
Andrew Weisburd, Clinton Watts and J. M. Berger, documented efforts by
''trolls'' to attack the reputations of those who challenged Russia's activities
in Syria, and to spread rumors about Mrs. Clinton's health. The study said that
an effort to track 7,000 social media accounts over two and a half years
indicated that support for Mr. Trump ''isn't the end of Russia's social media
and hacking campaign in America, but merely the beginning.''

But the misinformation effort is far from black-and-white. Many people who
spread false news have no connections to any foreign power, including a man in
Austin, Tex., who posted a Twitter message saying that paid protesters were
being bused to an anti-Trump demonstration there. Though the report quickly went
viral, the buses, it turned out, were there for a corporate conference.

Other examples, including one studied by a group called Propaganda or Not and
first cited by The Washington Post, appear to have more concrete connections to
Russia. In late August, stories suggesting that Mrs. Clinton might have
Parkinson's disease were circulated on trupundit.com, which often runs
pro-Russian material. It clearly twisted an email sent by one of Mrs. Clinton's
top aides about a drug called Provigil that is used to treat sleepiness. It has
also been prescribed to patients with sleepiness as a side effect from several
different ailments, the email added, including ''Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and
multiple sclerosis.''

That single reference was enough to create a fake story suggesting that Mrs.
Clinton was being treated for Parkinson's.

The allegation was quickly shot down by several news organizations. It made
little difference: Propaganda or Not, made up of former national security,
intelligence and other professionals, and some workers at Google and other
technology firms, concluded that it was reproduced tens of thousands of times,
sometimes by botnets, and viewed millions of times.

But it is not known whether that news was circulated under Russian government
direction, or simply by Russian sympathizers, or Mrs. Clinton's opponents.

The barrage of online efforts to influence the election this year has prompted
broader concerns that similar attempts, directed by the Kremlin or its
surrogates, could now be focused on elections next year in Germany and France.
The goal, intelligence officials and outside experts fear, is to undermine the
cohesiveness of the Western alliance, particularly NATO members, by calling into
question the validity of democratic elections.

''We simply don't know what the effects of the 'fake news' and other
disinformation was,'' said Jason Healey, an expert on cyberconflict at Columbia
University. ''If they were able to influence in favor of Trump by one or two
percentage points in some places, they will be encouraged to try again for the
French and the Germans.''

The efforts have also prompted debate inside Facebook and other social media
firms about their responsibility to filter out false news. But doing so is a
complex task, akin to editing a news operation, and it comes with complex
political calculations: Once social media firms begin editing here to American
standards, they will be under pressure from authoritarian regimes to do the same
to their standards.

In its statement, the administration focused chiefly on the threat of Russian
manipulation of the vote on Election Day, not on the proliferation of propaganda
and fake news.

Ms. Stein, of the Green Party, acknowledged on Thursday in an interview with the
PBS ''NewsHour'' that it was unlikely that recounts could change the results.
Still, she said that ''this was an election in which we saw hacking all over the
place,'' and that ''at the same time, we have a voting system which has been
proven to basically be wide open to hackers.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/25/us/politics/hacking-russia-election-fears-bara
ck-obama-donald-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Emails of John D. Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman,
were leaked after Russian government-directed hacking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM
HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Election Day in Wisconsin, where a petition for a recount has been filed by
Jill Stein, the Green Party's presidential candidate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMBER
ARNOLD/WISCONSIN STATE JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             278 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Populist Flair in France Lifts a Bid to Lead

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words


CHASSIEU, France -- A patriotic sea of supporters, waving red, white and blue
flags, greeted the newly ascendant presidential hopeful François Fillon this
week at a soulless conference center in this suburb of Lyon.

Mr. Fillon described radical Islam as a ''totalitarianism like the Nazis'' to
the cheers of an enthusiastic crowd, adding that France would need Russia's help
to fight it. Catholics, Protestants and Jews ''don't denounce the values of the
Republic,'' he thundered -- unlike the faithful of a certain other religion.

''We've got to reduce immigration to its strict minimum,'' he said. ''Our
country is not a sum of communities, it is an identity!''

In a year when nativist politics have become the ticket to electoral victory,
Mr. Fillon, 62, a dark-suited, stern-faced former prime minister has managed to
successfully ride the same nationalist and xenophobic currents as that have
pushed politicians in Britain and the United States to victory.

For months, Mr. Fillon polled third and even fourth among presidential
contenders in France and was largely dismissed. But his defense of French values
and identity has suddenly made him the front-runner as France's right-center
Republican Party prepares to vote Sunday in a runoff to choose its
standard-bearer in the 2017 elections -- and quite possibly the next president
of France.

That strategy has not only vaulted Mr. Fillon to the front of the pack,
surprising the French news media, pundits and politicians. It has also has
shifted the playing field for French conservatives far to the right, snug
alongside the far-right National Front, led by Marine Le Pen, who may be his
strongest challenger next year.

The two are now competing for some of the same voters, but the xenophobic,
anti-immigrant National Front is not regarded as respectable by many
middle-class French people, particularly Catholics.

Mr. Fillon, on the other hand, has positioned himself as a staunch defender of
French values, vowing to restore authority, honor the Roman Catholic Church and
exert ''strict administrative control'' over Islam.

Such appeals were met with fervent cheers during his campaign rally here by
supporters who agreed that French identity and French values were under threat
from both Islam and the secular left.

If those themes sound familiar to the ones that already shaped pivotal votes in
Britain and the United States this year, it is because they are. And Mr. Fillon,
an unsmiling political veteran, has used them to remarkable effect in France to
change his political fortunes.

Few analysts give France's Socialists and their unpopular president, François
Hollande, a strong chance in the spring. But Mr. Fillon, with his dark-eyed
frown, suggests a return to authority, and the rally crowd of about 5,000 here
loved it.

''He really respects French values, and that is very, very important to us,''
said Vincent Robert, a man in late middle-age who said he was a retired artisan.

''There is uprightness and frankness,'' Mr. Robert said. ''And incredible
enthusiasm for him in the middle class.''

His friend Bruno Perrin, a retired management consultant, was equally in thrall.
''It's his defense of values -- Christianity, the family, our traditions -- that
is what we like,'' he said.

Mr. Fillon's supporters say he is now the candidate best placed to bar Ms. Le
Pen's path to victory.

Analysts, however, warn that Mr. Fillon's proposed austerity cure for France's
economic stagnation -- cutting 500,000 Civil Service positions and 100 billion
euros (about $105 billion) in spending -- could be just the thing to push
frightened voters into the arms of the National Front leader.

Still, parishioners at Paris's solidly bourgeois Sainte-Trinité church, a
hulking 19th-century neo-Renaissance monument that looms over a busy square,
were in no doubt that Mr. Fillon was the one.

''He's got a sense of honesty and the family,'' said one churchgoer, Cécile
Despointes, after midday Mass this week. ''A man of courage and perseverance.''

It is a surprising turnabout for Mr. Fillon, who just weeks ago was best known
as the unsuccessful prime minister from 2007-2012 of a failed French president,
Nicolas Sarkozy, who mocked him behind his back.

''Courage, Fillon!'' Mr. Sarkozy would say derisively, Patrick Buisson, a
far-right journalist and one-time adviser to Mr. Sarkozy, wrote in his recent
book ''The People's Cause.''

Then, Mr. Fillon trumped both Mr. Sarkozy -- humiliating him in Sunday's round
of voting -- and the pollsters.

He came out on top in 87 of France's 101 départements, or districts, with 44
percent of the vote, 16 points ahead of the rival he faces Sunday, another
former prime minister, Alain Juppé. Mr. Fillon won in Paris and in rural France.

Mr. Juppé's more moderate agenda -- fewer cuts in the Civil Service and public
spending, less accommodation of Russia, friendlier to gay couples -- attracted
left-leaning voters, which in turn disturbed the right's traditional electorate.

''It bothered me that so many people on the left voted for him,'' Michel Carron,
a rural official who attended the rally here, said of Mr. Juppé.

Mr. Fillon ''defends our values,'' he said. ''We're in a sort of despair, and he
makes us live,'' Mr. Carron said, adding that he knows National Front
sympathizers who voted for him.

As in the United States, the pollsters had failed to detect a hidden yearning
for the restoration of a mythical older France, rural and dominated by the
values of a conservative Roman Catholic Church.

''The media, television, they are out of phase with the population, which is fed
up with being called xenophobic and racist,'' said Ms. Despointes, after Mass
outside Sainte-Trinité in Paris.

Mr. Fillon is not keen on social changes like same-sex marriage and chafes at
being the ''vassal'' of America, as he put it in his speech here. The crowd at
the rally was almost all white.

''He'll help us to find our identity again,'' said Jacqueline Badoux, a retired
teacher who attended the rally.

''In the fight against Islamic State, he will have the authority,'' said Ms.
Badoux's husband, Bernard, also a retired teacher, who approved mightily of Mr.
Fillon's performance here.

The very qualities the mercurial big-city Mr. Sarkozy made fun of, according to
Mr. Buisson -- Mr. Fillon's rural origins and ponderousness, ''his legendary
caution and his silences'' -- earned him favor with the crowd here.

''This country is the daughter of Christianity, as well as the Enlightenment,''
Mr. Fillon told the crowd outside Lyon. ''I will put the family back at the
heart of all public policy.'' The crowd roared.

Catholics are gravitating toward him because ''for the essential values --
family, nation, identity -- Fillon incarnates them with a certain
tranquillity,'' said the Rev. Pierre-Hervé Grosjean, a Versailles priest who
writes an influential Catholic blog.

''There's a desire to break with the spirit of May '68 and go back to the values
of family and education, to a France that is not ashamed of its roots,'' said
Father Grosjean, referring to a period when thousands of demonstrators took to
the streets  protesting France's old-world order. For Catholics, ''he captures
this alliance between conviction and realism,'' he said.

At the rally, Mr. Fillon promised to bring back school uniforms, restore respect
in schools and stand up to America.

Mr. Fillon is reminiscent of President-elect Donald J. Trump in a significant
way: He is friendlier toward Russia and its leader, Vladimir V. Putin.

Indeed, the French news media has detailed his numerous ties to Mr. Putin -- he
has stayed at Mr. Putin's residence at Sochi, according to the newspaper Le
Monde, and played billiards with him.

He even received a bottle of wine from the Russian leader on the death of his
mother, according to the newsmagazine L'Express, which described Mr. Fillon as
the French politician who ''appreciates'' Mr. Putin the most.

Such concerns, it appears, did little to damage Mr. Trump's candidacy in the
United States. Similarly, they may be just as easy to overlook for supporters of
Mr. Fillon like Ms. Despointes.

''He's a man of conviction,'' she said outside Sainte-Trinité. ''For people who
have moral values.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/25/world/europe/francois-fillon-france-election.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: François Fillon at a rally in Paris on Friday. He has managed to
ride the same nationalist and xenophobic currents that have pushed politicians
in Britain and the United States to victory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS SAMSON/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             279 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Websites Hit a 'Gold Mine' in Fake News

BYLINE: By ANDREW HIGGINS, MIKE McINTIRE and GABRIEL J.X. DANCE; Andrew Higgins
reported from Tbilisi, Georgia, and Mike McIntire and Gabriel J.X. Dance from
New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2104 words


TBILISI, Georgia -- Jobless and with graduation looming, a computer science
student at the premier university in the nation of Georgia decided early this
year that money could be made from America's voracious appetite for passionately
partisan political news. He set up a website, posted gushing stories about
Hillary Clinton and waited for ad sales to soar.

''I don't know why, but it did not work,'' said the student, Beqa Latsabidze,
22, who was savvy enough to change course when he realized what did drive
traffic: laudatory stories about Donald J. Trump that mixed real -- and
completely fake -- news in a stew of anti-Clinton fervor.

More than 6,000 miles away in Vancouver, a Canadian who runs a satirical
website, John Egan, had made a similar observation. Mr. Egan's site, The Burrard
Street Journal, offers sendups of the news, not fake news, and he is not trying
to fool anyone. But he, too, discovered that writing about Mr. Trump was a
''gold mine.'' His traffic soared and his work, notably a story that President
Obama would move to Canada if Mr. Trump won, was plundered by Mr. Latsabidze and
other internet entrepreneurs for their own websites.

''It's all Trump,'' Mr. Egan said by telephone. ''People go nuts for it.''

With Mr. Obama now warning of the corrosive threat from fake political news
circulated on Facebook and other social media, the pressing question is who
produces these stories, and how does this overheated, often fabricated news
ecosystem work?

Some analysts worry that foreign intelligence agencies are meddling in American
politics and using fake news to influence elections. But one window into how the
meat in fake sausages gets ground can be found in the buccaneering internet
economy, where satire produced in Canada can be taken by a recent college
graduate in the former Soviet republic of Georgia and presented as real news to
attract clicks from credulous readers in the United States. Mr. Latsabidze said
his only incentive was to make money from Google ads by luring people off
Facebook pages and onto his websites.

To gin up material, Mr. Latsabidze often simply cut and pasted, sometimes
massaging headlines but mostly just copying material from elsewhere, including
Mr. Egan's prank story on Mr. Obama. Mr. Egan was not amused to see his
satirical work on Mr. Latsabidze's website and filed a copyright infringement
notice to defend his intellectual property.

Yet Mr. Egan conceded a certain professional glee that Mr. Trump is here to
stay. ''Now that we've got him for four years,'' he said, ''I can't believe
it.''

By some estimates, bogus news stories appearing online and on social media had
an even greater reach in the final months of the presidential campaign than
articles by mainstream news organizations.

Soul Searching

Since then, internet giants like Facebook and Google have engaged in soul
searching over their roles in disseminating false news. Google announced that it
would ban websites that host fake news from using its online advertising
service, while Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, outlined some of the
options his company was considering, including simpler ways for users to flag
suspicious content.

In Tbilisi, the two-room rented apartment Mr. Latsabidze shares with his younger
brother is an unlikely offshore outpost of America's fake news industry. The two
brothers, both computer experts, get help from a third young Georgian, an
architect.

They say they have no keen interest in politics themselves and initially placed
bets across the American political spectrum and experimented with show business
news, too. They set up a pro-Clinton website, walkwithher.com, a Facebook page
cheering Bernie Sanders and a web digest of straightforward political news
plagiarized from The New York Times and other mainstream news media.

But those sites, among the more than a dozen registered by Mr. Latsabidze, were
busts. Then he shifted all his energy to Mr. Trump. His flagship pro-Trump
website, departed.co, gained remarkable traction in a crowded field in the
prelude to the Nov. 8 election thanks to steady menu of relentlessly pro-Trump
and anti-Clinton stories. (On Wednesday, a few hours after The New York Times
met with Mr. Latsabidze to ask him about his activities, the site vanished along
with his Facebook page.)

''My audience likes Trump,'' he said. ''I don't want to write bad things about
Trump. If I write fake stories about Trump, I lose my audience.''

Some of his Trump stories are true, some are highly slanted and others are
totally false, like one this summer reporting that ''the Mexican government
announced they will close their borders to Americans in the event that Donald
Trump is elected President of the United States.'' Data compiled by Buzzfeed
showed that the story was the third most-trafficked fake story on Facebook from
May to July.

So successful was the formula that others in Georgia and other faraway lands
joined in, too, including Nika Kurdadze, a college acquaintance of Mr.
Latsabidze's who set up his own pro-Trump site, newsbreakshere.com. Its recent
offerings included a fake report headlined: ''Stop it Liberals...Hillary Lost
the Popular Vote by Several Million. Here's Why.'' That story, like most of Mr.
Latsabidze's work, was pilfered from the web.

Mr. Latsabidze initially ran into no problems from all his cutting and pasting
of other people's stories, and he even got ripped off himself when a rival in
India hijacked a pro-Trump Facebook page he had set up to drive traffic to his
websites. (He said that the Indian rival had offered $10,000 to buy the page,
but that he had reneged on payment after being provided with access rights and
commandeered it for himself.)

Then the notice arrived from Mr. Egan in Canada, which prompted the company that
hosts Mr. Latsabidze's websites, including departed.co, to shut them down for
two days until he removed the offending story.

''It was really bad for me,'' Mr. Latsabidze recalled. ''Traffic dropped and I
had to start everything all over again.''

Mr. Egan, for his part, said he did not like others making money unfairly off
his labor. And he estimated that ''probably half'' the readers of his stories
believe they are true because of the widespread theft by other websites.

''A lot of that was conservative readers who see it picked up on other sites and
believe it,'' Mr. Egan said. ''In many cases, they haven't actually read it,
they're just reacting to a headline.''

Form of Infotainment

Mr. Latsabidze said he was amazed that anyone could mistake many of the articles
he posts for real news, insisting they are simply a form of infotainment that
should not be taken too seriously.

''I don't call it fake news; I call it satire,'' he said. He avoids sex and
violence because they violate Facebook rules, he said, but he sees nothing wrong
otherwise with providing readers with what they want.

''Nobody really believes that Mexico is going to close its border,'' he said,
sipping coffee this week in a McDonald's in downtown Tbilisi. ''This is crazy.''

All the same, the Mexico-closing-its-border story proved so popular after it
appeared on his site that he hunted around on the web for other articles on the
same theme. He found a tall tale about Mexico planning to call back its citizens
from the United States if Mr. Trump won. This, too, generated huge traffic,
though not quite as much as the first one, which Mr. Latsabidze described as ''a
really great story.''

He insisted he has nothing against Mexicans or Muslims, whose exclusion from the
United States is requested by an online petition that often appears on his
websites and who are invariably presented in a negative light in the stories he
posts.

''I am not against Muslims,'' he said. ''I just saw that there was interest.
They are in the news.'' Nor, he added, is he particularly against Mrs. Clinton,
though he personally prefers Mr. Trump.

If his pro-Clinton site had taken off, he said, he would have pressed on with
that, but ''people did not engage,'' so he focused on serving pro-Trump
supporters instead. They, he quickly realized, were a far more receptive
audience ''because they are angry'' and eager to read outrageous tales.

''For me, this is all about income, nothing more,'' he added.

The income comes mostly from Google, which pays a few cents each time a reader
sees or clicks on advertisements embedded in one of Mr. Latsabidze's websites.
His best month, which coincided with the hit bogus story about Mexico closing
the border, brought in around $6,000, though monthly revenue is usually much
lower.

Mr. Obama, speaking in Berlin last week, assailed the spread of phony news on
Facebook and other platforms, warning that ''if we are not serious about facts
and what's true and what's not'' and ''if we can't discriminate between serious
arguments and propaganda, then we have problems.''

While Facebook does not directly provide Mr. Latsabidze any revenue, it plays a
central role in driving traffic to his websites. He initially established
several fake Facebook pages intended to steer traffic to his websites, including
one supposedly set up by a beautiful woman named Valkiara Beka. This woman, he
acknowledged, does not really exist. ''She is me,'' he said.

He discovered, however, that such pages were ineffective compared with
legitimate Facebook pages from real people, particularly Trump supporters,
because they have so much energy and love promoting stories they like.

Departed.co -- named after Mr. Latsabidze's favorite movie, ''The Departed,''
and recently redirected to usatodaycom.com -- published dozens of stories daily,
many of them similar to one posted on Nov. 17 with the headline, ''This Is
Huuge! International Arrest Warrant Issued By Putin For George Soros!'' The
story was not true and had already been published on scores of other fake news
sites around the web.

Then there are the stories that have a grain of truth, along with big dollops of
exaggeration and extrapolation, like ''Dying Hillary Says She Just Wants To Curl
Up And Never Leave Her House Again After Defeat.'' Mrs. Clinton did say the day
after her election defeat that she just wanted to curl up with a book. But she
was not, as far as anyone knows, dying.

Kremlin Suspicions

In the prelude to the election, bogus reports about Mrs. Clinton's health and
highly favorable ones about Mr. Trump were promoted with gusto by Russian
state-controlled news media outlets and legions of pro-Russian internet
agitators. This has stirred suspicions that the Kremlin has had a hand in the
fake news industry, prompting American researchers to assert in recent studies
that the online blurring of the boundary between truth and falsehood is in part
the result of Russian manipulation.

But Mr. Latsabidze and others here say they serve only their bank balances, not
Russia or anything else.

He insisted that his team operated entirely on its own and that it did not want
or need outside help. He said that it took him just two hours to set up a basic
website and that anyone with a modicum of computer savvy could quickly start
hawking news -- real or fake -- online.

''I did not invent anything,'' he said. ''It has all been done before.''

Mr. Latsabidze, who apparently has broken no laws, said that any crackdown on
fake news might work in the short term but that ''something else will come along
to replace it.''

''If they want to, they can control everything,'' he said, ''but this will stop
freedom of speech.''

For now, the postelection period has been bad for business, with a sharp fall in
the appetite for incendiary political news favoring Mr. Trump. Traffic to
departed.co and affiliated websites has plunged in recent weeks by at least 50
percent, Mr. Latsabidze said.

''If Hillary had won, it would be better for us,'' he said. ''I could write
about the bad things she was going to do,'' he said. ''I did not write to make
Trump win. I just wanted to get viewers and make some money.''

In the months since he got into the fake news business, Mr. Latsabidze has
landed a day job as a programmer with a software company, which he sees as a
better future. ''This is more stable work,'' he said.

But he seemed reluctant to quit altogether.

''Are there any elections coming up in the U.K.?'' Mr. Latsabidze asked.

He was disappointed to hear that none were scheduled soon. But, advised that
France will hold a hotly contested presidential election next April featuring a
Trump-like candidate in the form of Marine Le Pen, a far-right populist, he
perked up.

''Maybe I should learn some French,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/25/world/europe/fake-news-donald-trump-hillary-cl
inton-georgia.html

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A fake news article posted by Beqa Latsabidze, a Georgian. ''My
audience likes Trump,'' he said, referring to the president-elect. (A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             280 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Will Trump Rethink a China Showdown?

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Yufan Huang contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MEMO FROM BEIJING; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1039 words


BEIJING -- As a presidential candidate, Donald J. Trump talked about China
almost solely in the context of trade, such as when he promised to slap
punishing tariffs on cheap Chinese imports that he argued had ruined the lives
of working-class Americans.

But as he begins to feel the weight of office on his shoulders, there are signs
that his focus in the Asia region may have shifted toward security --
specifically, the problem of North Korea and its expanding nuclear arsenal,
which experts say already threatens America's regional allies, Japan and South
Korea.

During his visit to The New York Times this week, Mr. Trump referred obliquely
to a ''big problem for the country'' that President Obama had mentioned during
their 90-minute meeting at the White House after the election. Well-placed
American officials believe that reference was to North Korea.

Any solution to that problem must involve China, North Korea's patron, American
and Chinese officials agree. Mr. Trump acknowledged as much during the campaign,
saying on one occasion that China should do more to bear down on the North.

So which tack will Mr. Trump take with China? Will he seek its support for a
deal on North Korea, or will he start a trade war, putting such cooperation in
doubt?

American officials briefed the Chinese several months ago on their assessment
that the North's nuclear capabilities had sharply increased, according to two
Americans with knowledge of the briefings, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter.

But even before then, nuclear scientists from China and the United States had
agreed for some time about the danger posed by the North's ambitions, said
Siegfried S. Hecker, an American nuclear scientist at Stanford University who
was the last outsider to visit the country's plutonium processing plant at
Yongbyon, in November 2010.

Several years ago, the Chinese tended to play down the North's nuclear
capabilities, Dr. Hecker said in an email exchange. But since the mercurial Kim
Jong-un, a young leader who has declined to listen to China and has provoked the
United States, took over the country, the assessments of the two powers have
been ''pretty much in line,'' he said.

Dr. Hecker and other scientists estimate that North Korea might develop the
capacity to strike the West Coast of the United States with a nuclear warhead in
about five years. But the real problem is here and now, in Asia, he said.

''The greatest and most urgent threat comes not from a North Korean nuke being
able to reach the U.S., but rather what they have already,'' he said.
Specifically, Dr. Hecker wrote in a recent article, the North is now probably
able ''to put nuclear weapons on target anywhere in South Korea and Japan and
even on some U.S. assets in the Pacific.''

Worse yet, he wrote, North Korea may have developed a ''false sense of
confidence'' from a recent spate of successful nuclear and missile tests -- one
that could lead it to grave errors of judgment.

By the end of this year, Dr. Hecker estimated, the country is likely to have
enough fissile material for about 20 bombs. The danger would be exacerbated if
the North decided ''to field tactical nuclear weapons as its arsenal expands and
its confidence in its nuclear arsenal grows.''

In short, Dr. Hecker said, more and better bombs make a catastrophic
miscalculation by North Korea more likely.

How much of this Mr. Trump knew before his victory is unclear, but he was
certainly aware of the problem. Early on, he expressed a mixture of awe and
dismay toward Mr. Kim.

''If you look at North Korea, this guy, I mean, he's like a maniac, O.K.?'' he
said at a rally in Ottumwa, Iowa, in January.

''And you've got to give him credit. How many young guys -- he was like 26 or 25
when his father died -- can take over these tough generals?'' Mr. Trump was
referring to Mr. Kim's execution of several generals, including his uncle, Jang
Song-thaek, who was the main conduit between North Korea and China.

''We can't play games with him,'' Mr. Trump said at the time, referring to Mr.
Kim. ''Because he really does have missiles, and he really does have nukes.''

Such considerations -- and briefings that Mr. Trump presumably has received or
will receive on the North's capabilities -- could compel the new president to
prioritize security over trade in his dealings with China. With the right
approach, he could find a willing partner in Beijing, said Yang Xiyu, a former
Chinese official who oversaw the so-called six-party talks on the North's
nuclear program that collapsed in 2008.

But Chinese officials say that approach would require removing a thorn in
Beijing's side: an advanced missile defense system that the United States plans
to install in South Korea. The Chinese view that system, known as the Terminal
High Altitude Area Defense System, as an effort to contain its ambitions in
Asia, though Washington and Seoul say it is intended purely to defend South
Korea against the North.

In the past year, China has rebuffed many of Washington's requests for sharper
measures against North Korea, and the missile system is one reason. Whether Mr.
Trump would consider scrapping it is another unknown.

Washington and Beijing did cooperate on United Nations sanctions against the
North this year -- an encouraging sign, analysts said, though many doubt that
economic punishment alone will be a deterrent.

And on Friday, the Chinese state-run news media reported that Beijing would
support a new round of sanctions being considered by the Security Council that
would close loopholes allowing North Korea to sell coal.

Mr. Yang, the former official, said the Trump administration must take into
account Beijing's worst fear, where the North is concerned: a collapse of Mr.
Kim's totalitarian regime, followed by refugees from the North pouring into
China and a unified Korean Peninsula under the protection of the American
military. As president, Mr. Trump must understand that Mr. Kim's government has
to stay, Mr. Yang said.

''Remove the bombs, not the regime, is the key to a peaceful solution,'' Mr.
Yang said. If the United States shares that goal, he said, ''we can cooperate
sincerely and substantively.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/25/world/asia/donald-trump-china-trade-security.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Campaigning early this year in Ottumwa, Iowa, Donald J. Trump
said of North Korea's leader, ''He's like a maniac, O.K.?'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX
WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 President Xi Jinping of China in Peru last week. In dealing with Asia, Mr.
Trump will have to balance trade and security concerns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNESTO
BENAVIDES/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             281 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Smashing New Way to Relieve Stress

BYLINE: By CLAIRE MARTIN

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg.
4

LENGTH: 1095 words


When she was a teenager on the South Side of Chicago in the late 1990s, Donna
Alexander fantasized about setting up a space where stressed-out people could
relieve their tension in a safe, nonviolent way -- by smashing mannequins,
televisions, furniture and other objects. She was confident in her idea, but she
wasn't sure how to turn it into a business.

Finally, in the fall of 2008, and by then living in Dallas, Ms. Alexander began
an experiment. She invited current and past co-workers to her garage to
pulverize items she had collected from the curbs in her neighborhood. ''I would
play music on my laptop and just let them have at it,'' she says. She charged
$5. Soon, word of the stress-relief sessions spread throughout Dallas.

''I started getting strangers at my door asking if my house was the place to
break stuff,'' Ms. Alexander said. ''When that happened, I knew I had a
business.''

Over the next few years while she looked for a suitable location for the
company, Ms. Alexander accrued a four-month waiting list. In December 2011, she
quit her job as a marketing manager for a steakhouse to officially start the
Anger Room in a 1,000-square-foot space in downtown Dallas.

The Anger Room charges $25 for five minutes of crushing printers, alarm clocks,
glass cups, vases and the like. Prices rise to about $500 for custom room
setups. The most expensive setup so far has been a faux retail store, replete
with racks of clothing.

Several other anger rooms have popped up around the world, including in Houston,
Toronto, Niagara Falls and Australia.

The American presidential election increased business at some anger rooms.
Stressed-out voters traveled all the way to Toronto from New York before and
after the election, says Steve Shew, co-founder of the Rage Room there.
Customers wrote the name of the candidate they were frustrated with on a plate
and smashed it.

At the Anger Room in Dallas, mannequins of Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton were
taking beatings before the election. Customers demolished two Clinton
mannequins, requiring replacements. But Trump attracted even more ire. ''We've
gone through at least three of the male mannequins that we have to dress up as
Donald Trump,'' Ms. Alexander says.

Sessions in an anger room are meant to be therapeutic. But mental health
professionals question the efficacy of rampaging in a faux cubicle or whacking
airborne glasses.

''Although it's appealing to think that expressing anger can reduce stress,
there is not much evidence of that,'' says George M. Slavich, a clinical
psychologist and director of the Laboratory for Stress Assessment and Research
at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''On the contrary, the types of
physiological and immune responses that occur during anger can actually be
harmful for health.''

Mr. Slavich recommends stress-reduction techniques that can be incorporated into
daily life, such as mindfulness-based stress reduction, meditation and cognitive
behavior therapy.

Nevertheless, customers of the Anger Room have paid to re-enact a scene from the
movie ''Office Space,'' in which the main characters, a trio of disgruntled
computer programmers, beat a printer with a baseball bat. The company can also
customize the workplace experience, recreating a customer's own office.

''You have a desk with a computer and phone, chair and a mannequin dressed up in
a suit, uniform or whatever relates to their real-life issue,'' Ms. Alexander
says.

Customers are provided with protective equipment that includes a helmet,
goggles, boots and gloves. And they can pick out a music soundtrack -- including
classical, R&B, grunge and heavy metal -- and an array of objects to swing.

''Some of our typical options are baseball bats, golf clubs, two-by-fours,'' Ms.
Alexander says. ''We get things like metal pipes, mannequin arms and legs,
skillets, legs from tables. Sledgehammers, crowbars and things like that.''
Off-limits are sharp objects and those that use ammunition.

The Anger Room accepts donations for its rooms from residents and businesses in
the Dallas-Fort Worth area. Its four employees also go out on bulk trash pickup
days looking for crushable items. The employees build the rooms, filling them
with the breakables, and do the postwreckage cleanup.

Customers have included executives at large corporations, including Hilton and
Microsoft, Ms. Alexander says. In the first year, the Anger Room's revenue was
$170,000. Since then, she has received about 2,500 inquiries from other aspiring
anger-room entrepreneurs, and she is in the process of drafting a licensing
agreement for franchisees.

At the Rage Room in Toronto, 45 minutes of destruction costs $19.99 and includes
video downloads of the sessions. Customers bring their own music.

The Rage Room's ''date night package'' is its most popular offering, Mr. Shew
says. And a favorite activity for couples is for one person to throw a cup in
the air for their date to smash.

''People really love that,'' Mr. Shew says. ''I guess because it has a bit of a
teamwork element to it.''

The Rage Room grew out of a business called Battle Sports, a staging ground for
a sport known as archery dodge ball. After the expansion, ''there was a huge,
huge uptick in website traffic,'' Mr. Shew said. Specifically, web visits have
jumped to 1,200 from about 400 a day. Revenue has also increased, and the
company has fielded many inquiries from prospective Rage Room franchisees. So
far, it has granted licenses to a handful of them for $1,000.

Start-up costs for such a business are modest, Mr. Shew says. ''All you're doing
is just setting up the room, reinforcing the walls, giving them a bat and
crowbar, getting some smashing items and they just go in there,'' he says. Add
to that providing protective gear, obtaining insurance and finding a suitable
spot for the business.

In the first several years, Ms. Alexander struggled to find a permanent space.
The company's first location was near Texas Instruments, which became a source
of breakables. But after the first year, the business outgrew the space. Over
the next four years, it moved three times.

Mr. Shew concurs that finding an appropriate space for an anger room is a
challenge. Retail districts are not well suited to it, he says. ''We find that
most people have an easier time with more of the industrial warehouse areas.''

Another early obstacle for both the Anger Room and the Rage Room was obtaining
insurance. Since it's a new concept, Ms. Alexander says her insurer ''literally
had to create a category for my business.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/26/business/anger-rooms-a-smashing-new-way-to-rel
ieve-stress.html

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Diane Casanova, top, during a recent session at the Anger Room
in Dallas. Above, some tools of destruction. Below, the aftermath of a session.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY COOPER NEILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             282 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Miami's Streets Fill With Songs and Reflection

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ; Neil Reisner and Frances Robles contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words


MIAMI -- It did not matter that it was the middle of the night, or that it began
to drizzle. When this city's Cuban-American residents heard the news, they
sprinted to Little Havana. They banged pots and pans. They sang the Cuban
national anthem and waved the Cuban flag. They danced and hugged, laughed and
cried, shouted and rejoiced.

The seemingly eternal vigil for the death of Fidel Castro, a man who had
profoundly changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people here -- dividing
their families, taking their property, imprisoning and sometimes shooting their
friends and relatives, wrenching them from their homes and their country -- was
over. Finally.

''I owe this to my dad -- this going out and celebrating,'' said Isabel De Lara,
67, a former banker who came to Calle Ocho -- Eighth Street -- to join in the
jubilation. She wished her father, who is dead, could have joined her.

More than five decades had passed since Ms. De Lara stepped off a plane alone,
from Cuba, sent here at age 12 by parents who feared for her future after the
Castro revolution. For her and so many others, Mr. Castro's death was a
watershed, for he embodied the revolution and the heartbreak that followed.

''Him dying represents the end of something awful that happened to us,'' she
said. ''It's actually him -- not anybody else -- who caused this. It's because
of him that we lost our opportunity to have a life in our country.''

Waves of other Cubans also came, transforming not just their own lives but the
city itself, gradually turning it into the unofficial bilingual capital of Latin
America. With the goal of ousting Mr. Castro and establishing democracy in Cuba,
early exiles built a degree of political and economic clout that outstripped
their relatively small numbers.

Focusing first on local politics and business in the 1970s and 1980s, the exiles
and their children, led by the powerful Cuban American National Foundation,
catapulted into national politics and influence. They gained the power to tilt
presidential elections toward Republicans and sway American foreign policy
against appeasement with Mr. Castro.

''It was important to take the struggle outside of Eighth Street to
Washington,'' said Jorge Mas Santos, the son of Jorge Mas Canosa, the man who
spearheaded the foundation and was seen as the leader of Miami's exile
community.

That influence remains. The American trade embargo on Cuba is still in force,
requiring the vote of a Congress that is reluctant to remove it. And this year's
presidential campaign saw two Americans of Cuban descent -- Senators Marco Rubio
and Ted Cruz -- run for the office.

But in the last decade, the pro-embargo, hard-line grip on the minds and votes
of people in Miami and elsewhere has weakened, creating divisions among
Cuban-Americans over how deeply to engage with Cuba and its people.

With Mr. Castro's death, some hard-liners are pushing for retrenchment and hope
that President-elect Donald J. Trump will crack down now that the government has
lost its father figure. Others say that this is the time to flood the zone with
more people, ideas and goods. Cuba's president, Raúl Castro, has opened the
window slightly to economic reform, travel and American influence. Now that his
older brother is gone, they argue, he will be freer to make changes.

But the oldest and most vehement exiles -- the historicos, as they are called --
are dying off in large numbers. Their children, while still passionately opposed
to Mr. Castro, are open to closer ties with the Cuban people as a way of stoking
change. (Even Mr. Mas Santos is part of this group.) And their grandchildren
know far less about Cuba and Mr. Castro; many are more intrigued than outraged.
At the same time, recent arrivals, while deeply disenchanted with the Cuban
government, want to see and help their relatives on the island, above all else.

Those shifts in attitude have been translated in Washington. Two years ago,
President Obama surprised Cuban-Americans by announcing a series of changes. He
re-established diplomatic ties and made it easier for Americans to visit and
send money and goods, and also for American businesses to establish a foothold.

''We have moved from a politics of passion to a politics of realism,'' said Andy
Gomez, a political analyst who was a senior fellow in Cuban studies at the
University of Miami. ''We are going to be passionate for the next 72 hours. But
the realism is that the transition has to come within the island. The leadership
has to come from within the island. I don't think anyone in South Florida thinks
they will be president of Cuba, and if they do they are fools.''

But Saturday was mostly a day to celebrate. Overnight, thousands, including Ms.
De Lara, joined an impromptu conga line of catharsis in front of Versailles
Restaurant on Eighth Street, the unofficial headquarters of Miami's Cuban
exiles.

So many people showed up, including scores of young people, that the police, at
the mayor's request, closed off several blocks to accommodate the celebration.

Erick and Janette Revuelta stood outside Versailles toasting Mr. Castro's death
with small cups of Cuban coffee. They had come from the St. Augustine, Fla.,
area to celebrate Thanksgiving with family.

Mr. Revuelta, 38, came to America by raft when he was 16, along with his father
and two brothers, in 1994, just before President Bill Clinton signed the
agreement with Cuba that allowed refugees to stay only if they reached dry land,
the so-called ''wet foot, dry foot'' policy. His mother immigrated several years
later.

Mr. Revuelta also came to Calle Ocho when rumors of Mr. Castro's death
previously spread. ''I was here last time he died,'' he said. ''It's been a long
time coming.''

Antonio Rodgriguez, 73, left the island in 1960, shortly after he was imprisoned
for three months after speaking against the government. He took a dimmer view.

''He died, but his brother is still there, the government is still there, it's
still the oppressive government,'' Mr. Rodgriguez said.

Vivian Garcia-Montes Castellá, 75, was 19 when she came to the United States
from Havana, thinking her stay would be temporary. In the early hours of
Saturday, she wept after hearing the news, changed out of her pajamas and joined
the caravan to Little Havana. She danced in the middle of the street, hugging
strangers, as car horns blared.

But there was an overlay of sadness. Ms. Castellá knew so many people who had
waited for this day their entire lives, and many of them had died before it
came. ''There was such sadness to think of all the people, and what everyone
went through, and the people who aren't here today to celebrate and witness
this,'' she said. ''My brother who was in the Bay of Pigs, he couldn't enjoy it
the way I am. The people they killed. The people who drowned on the way over
here.''

In Miami, the post-Castro convulsion had long been talked about, rumored and
planned for. Once, the city and county had a contingency plan to address a
possible mass exodus of Cubans from the island to Miami; that is no longer
anticipated. But many schools have a Castro-is-dead plan. And police departments
were prepared for what to do -- in Miami, this meant letting the people
celebrate.

The fact that Mr. Castro's death came during a long holiday weekend made the
news more manageable in many ways.

Luis Lasa, 67, a retired banker, watched events unfold on television from his
home, but it felt no less emotional. It was a lifetime ago that his father, an
executive for an American company in Cuba, got a call from a military office on
Oct. 25, 1960, warning him to leave the country. He left that night, and the
family followed the next day. Mr. Lasa was 10 years old.

''They destroyed our families, they destroyed our traditions,'' said Mr. Lasa,
who lost a cousin in the bungled Bay of Pigs invasion. ''Forget the property
that we lost. We had been in Cuba 250 years. We lost so much there.''

On Saturday, for so many exiles, it finally became easier to look forward and
not back. Fidel Castro, even in his old age, remained the symbol of the
revolution. Raúl Castro ruled, but always in his older brother's shadow, exiles
said.

Without Fidel Castro, Cuba can exhale. Even though change may not come quickly,
there is a strong possibility it will come.

''This is the beginning of the end,'' Mr. Lasa said.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/26/us/miami-cubans-fidel-castro.html

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cuban-Americans celebrated together in the Little Havana
neighborhood of Miami on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT MCINTYRE FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             283 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unpopular Vote

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY KABASERVICE.

Geoffrey Kabaservice's latest book is ''Rule and Ruin: The Downfall of
Moderation and the Destruction of the Republican Party, From Eisenhower to the
Tea Party.''

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; NONFICTION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 751 words


HERBERT HOOVERA LifeBy Glen Jeansonne with David LuhrssenIllustrated. 455 pp.
New American Library. $28.

Herbert Hoover is usually ranked near the bottom of American presidents. Glen
Jeansonne's biography of the man who was chief executive from 1929 to 1933 is a
cri de coeur over what the author sees as a grievous injustice. True, Hoover did
preside over the worst economic catastrophe in our nation's history. But in
''Herbert Hoover: A Life,'' he is a fascinating and accomplished individual --
the ''most versatile American since Benjamin Franklin'' -- and an idealistic,
dynamic president who deserves a better reputation.

Born in 1874, Hoover was orphaned by age 9 and experienced a grim, Dickensian
upbringing. After working his way through Stanford University, he searched for a
postgraduation position in engineering but found only menial jobs, and reached
what he called ''the bottom levels of real human despair.'' Jeansonne takes a
Panglossian view of Hoover's early tribulations, but a better assessment of his
scarred soul was made by Gutzon Borglum, the sculptor of Mount Rushmore: ''If
you put a rose in Hoover's hand, it would wilt.''

Brighter fortunes arrived when Hoover lucked into a posting as a mine scout in
the Australian outback. Operating under grueling, dangerous conditions, he
proved his mettle as a manager and efficiency expert. Newly married, he embarked
on globe-trotting adventures that included coming under siege during the Boxer
Rebellion in China, wandering into a tiger's lair in Burma and building model
towns in Siberia. He became a wealthy man who employed more than a million
workers.

With the outbreak of World War I, Hoover left business for public service. He
exercised superb leadership in evacuating American citizens from Britain, then
helped save millions of lives by feeding civilians in German-occupied Belgium
and averting famines and epidemics in postwar Europe, including Communist
Russia. The Great Engineer became internationally famous as the Great
Humanitarian; his name was used as a synonym for charity in Finnish. Hoover
brought the same technocratic brilliance to government as secretary of commerce
under the Republican presidents Warren Harding and Calvin Coolidge. He was the
progressives' favored presidential candidate in 1928 and won a smashing victory.

Unfortunately, the stock market crash of 1929 revealed Hoover's limitations.
Jeansonne, a professor of history at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee,
rejects the caricature of an uncaring, do-nothing leader, protesting that he was
''one of the kindest men ever to occupy the White House'' who ''employed every
weapon in his fiscal and humanitarian arsenal to combat the Depression.'' This
argument isn't new; for more than half a century, revisionist scholars have made
the case that Hoover expanded government in an effort to fight the Depression.
Indeed, that's why present-day conservatives don't revere his memory.

But unlike Jeansonne, most revisionists have also concluded that Hoover's
triumphs in voluntary relief efforts blinded him to the reality that the
Depression had exhausted the resources of private charity. The scale of his
public works projects and government interventions into the free market was
indeed unprecedented in peacetime. But his fidelity to economic orthodoxy and
aversion to federal relief for the needy meant that his efforts failed.

Jeansonne descends to special pleading when he suggests that federal action
cannot end recessions and that government can only redistribute wealth, not
create it. He believes that Hoover's ideas remain relevant because his
administration was the last to uphold the original American ideal of minimal
government. But conservatives have never figured out how to return to that
pre-New Deal Eden without suffering huge electoral repudiation on the scale of
Hoover's landslide loss to Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1932.

Hoover lived on for another three decades, hoping all the while for vindication.
Subsequent Republican presidents distanced themselves from him; Ronald Reagan's
political model was Hoover's nemesis, Roosevelt. But as Jeansonne and other
scholars have demonstrated, Hoover -- despite his progressive leanings --
pioneered the conservative Republican rhetoric of private enterprise, family and
individual freedom threatened by overweening bureaucracy. And it's worth
remembering that until Donald Trump, Hoover was the last Republican to win the
presidency without a Nixon or Bush on the ticket.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/25/books/review/herbert-hoover-a-life-glen-jeanso
nne.html

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Herbert Hoover, 1930 (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERBERT HOOVER LIBRARY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             284 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clinton Team to Join Recount Effort Pushed by Green Party Candidate

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Maggie Haberman and Amy Chozick contributed
reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 979 words


WASHINGTON -- Nearly three weeks after Election Day, Hillary Clinton's campaign
said on Saturday that it would participate in a recount process in Wisconsin
incited by a third-party candidate and would join any potential recounts in two
other closely contested states, Pennsylvania and Michigan.

The Clinton campaign held out little hope of success in any of the three states,
and said it had seen no ''actionable evidence'' of vote hacking that might taint
the results or otherwise provide new grounds for challenging Donald J. Trump's
victory. But it suggested it was going along with the recount effort to assure
supporters that it was doing everything possible to verify that hacking by
Russia or other irregularities had not affected the results.

In a post on Medium, Marc Elias, the Clinton team's general counsel, said the
campaign would take part in the Wisconsin recount being set off by Jill Stein,
the Green Party candidate, and would also participate if Ms. Stein made good on
her plans to seek recounts in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Mrs. Clinton lost those
three states by a total of little more than 100,000 votes, sealing her Electoral
College defeat  by Mr. Trump.

The Clinton campaign had assailed Mr. Trump during the election for refusing to
say he would abide by the results if he lost. On Saturday, Mr. Trump responded
to the campaign's decision to join the recount with a statement calling the
effort ''ridiculous'' and ''a scam by the Green Party.''

He suggested that most of the money raised would not be spent on the recount.
''The results of this election should be respected instead of being challenged
and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is doing,'' Mr. Trump said.

In Wisconsin, Mr. Trump leads by 22,177 votes. In Michigan, he has a lead of
10,704 votes, and in Pennsylvania, his advantage is 70,638 votes.

Mr. Elias suggested in his essay that the Clinton campaign was joining the
recount effort with little expectation that it would change the result. But many
of the campaign's supporters, picking up on its frequent complaints of Russian
interference in the election, have enthusiastically backed Ms. Stein's efforts,
putting pressure on the Clinton team to show that it is exploring all options.

Mr. Elias used his essay to describe an intensive behind-the-scenes effort by
the campaign to look for signs of Russian hacking activity or other
irregularities in the vote count.

Ms. Stein filed for a recount in Wisconsin on Friday afternoon, about an hour
before the deadline. She has raised more than $5 million for the effort, which
will now turn to Michigan and Pennsylvania, where there are deadlines in the
coming week.

In his post, Mr. Elias sounded less enthusiastic than the recount's many
supporters. ''Because we had not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or
outside attempts to alter the voting technology,'' he wrote, ''we had not
planned to exercise this option ourselves.''

He added, ''Now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to
participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to
all sides.''

If Ms. Stein pursues additional recounts, ''we will take the same approach in
those states as well,'' he wrote. But he noted that the ''number of votes
separating Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in the closest of these states --
Michigan -- well exceeds the largest margin ever overcome in a recount.''

The Clinton campaign will not contribute financially to the effort, which has
been funded by small contributions. But it will pay to have its own lawyers
present at the recount, campaign officials said.

The Obama administration issued a statement to The New York Times on Friday in
response to questions about intelligence findings related to Russian
interference in the election. In the statement, it said it had concluded that
the election was free of interference.

The administration issued a second statement on Saturday saying that ''the
federal government did not observe any increased level of malicious
cyberactivity aimed at disrupting our electoral process on Election Day.''

Mrs. Clinton conceded the race to Mr. Trump early on Nov. 9, when it became
clear that he would have a large margin of victory in the Electoral College. But
as her lead in the popular vote has grown -- it now exceeds two million votes --
her base has increasingly pressured her to challenge the results.

That has been fueled in part by how aggressively the Clinton campaign spread the
word of Russian involvement in the theft of emails from the Democratic National
Committee and from the personal account of John D. Podesta, the campaign's
chairman. The campaign also charged that the Russians were behind fake news
about Mrs. Clinton's health, among other stories -- a claim supported to some
extent by recent studies.

Some critics saw those accusations as an effort to shift the discussion from
mistakes the Clinton campaign had made in taking on Mr. Trump.

Mr. Elias's post offered a revealing look at how much time and energy the
campaign had spent in the past two weeks looking for evidence of Russian hacking
or other irregularities, and how it had tried to keep those efforts secret.

''Since the day after the election, we have had lawyers and data scientists and
analysts combing over the results to spot anomalies that would suggest a hacked
result,'' Mr. Elias wrote.

''Most of those discussions have remained private, while at least one has
unfortunately been the subject of leaks,'' he wrote, a reference to
conversations between Mr. Podesta and a group of experts that included J. Alex
Halderman, a computer scientist with deep experience in the vulnerabilities of
voting systems.

Mr. Halderman recently put his own post on Medium, describing his suspicions and
the case for recounts. But even he doubted that the election result would
change.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/26/us/politics/clinton-camp-will-join-push-for-wi
sconsin-ballot-recount.html

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A polling site on Nov. 8 in Altoona, Wis. Jill Stein filed for a
recount in Wisconsin and plans to file in Michigan and Pennsylvania. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MARISA WOJCIK/THE EAU CLAIRE LEADER-TELEGRAM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             285 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Comments

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 396 words


''You Can't See the Future in a Stock Surge,'' by Sendhil Mullainathan of
Harvard (The Upshot, Economic View, Nov. 20), said the market rally that
followed the presidential election was not necessarily an indicator of how the
economy would perform under Donald J. Trump.

The article attracted 26 comments. The following have been edited and condensed.
Good news, yes, but stocks are not ''surging.'' They're making up ground lost in
a shaky summer and fall, and simply resuming the steady year-on-year increase
we've seen throughout President Obama's second term. So I wouldn't be so quick
to call this a referendum on anything beyond campaign fatigue.

Lorem Ipsum, Dallas-Fort Worth

The past has shown us that G.O.P.-sponsored deregulation has ended in scandal
and recessions: the savings and loan debacle in the '80s, and the Great
Recession. Get ready.

DTOM, California

Business knew what to expect from Hillary Clinton, so the pricing was put in
place. It knew increased regulation and taxation would be there, and it knew
that continued outsourcing and shutting down of American factories and a
stripping of the American worker would continue.

With Mr. Trump there are higher risks and higher rewards, which is what business
sees.

Alan Tegel, Whitesboro, Tex.

If history is any guide, asset prices will continue to rise for another eight
years before the bubble bursts. 401(k)'s will be wiped out, real estate prices
will drop precipitously, and banks will be bailed out, again. Everyone will
wonder why they never saw it coming.

WmC, Bokeelia, Fla.

This signals the full confidence of those at the highest levels of wealth that
this ''president'' will gut the regulatory structures throughout the economy --
in the financial markets, in industry and in corporate America.

Cathy, Massachusetts

Stock prices may well have risen because of the expectation that capital will
garner an even greater portion of national income. Labor is weak, and may be
getting weaker.

Dismayed, Boston

It was reported that drug company stocks rose on the expectation that those
companies will now be able to charge higher prices for prescription meds. Those
older voters who voted for Mr. Trump are going to feel the impact of their vote
very quickly and (literally) right where it hurts most.

DR, New England

Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/26/business/the-election-and-the-market-rally.htm
l

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             286 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. McConnell Turns His Back on Miners

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 512 words


The troubled coal industry, which stirred such great political concern during
the presidential campaign, is about to take on a decidedly human dimension in
the Senate. A bipartisan push is underway there to rescue the failing pension
and health benefits of thousands of retired union coal miners. Their benefit
plans have become severely underfunded during the industry's downturn, as coal
companies declare bankruptcy and renege on obligations to workers at a time when
there are fewer young miners to contribute support.

One by one, hard-pressed coal companies have been bailing out on contract
promises. The latest, Patriot Coal's benefit fund, told 12,500 retirees last
month that their health coverage will stop on Dec. 31. More than 10,000 other
retired workers face similar cutoffs over the next year, according to the Senate
sponsors of an emergency rescue plan. It would tap into funds from an existing
mine cleanup program in order to bolster union health and retirement plans with
an estimated contribution of $220 million a year.

The plan, called the Miners Protection Act, was sent for floor action by a
bipartisan 18-to-8 vote of the Senate Finance Committee in September. But it has
run into trouble with the Republican majority leader, Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky. He questions why the bill would protect only members of the United
Mine Workers of America, which has an estimated 89,000 pensioned miners and
family members and 22,000 workers vested for the future.

The senator's concern for nonunion miners seems a classic example of a hackneyed
legislative tactic -- arguing for the perfect to block the good. He should drop
it and help retirees who worked in a dangerous industry and deserve what was
promised by contract in the halcyon days of Big Coal.

Mr. McConnell blames the Obama administration for the industry's troubles,
insisting that its ''ideological'' regulatory policies have hurt miners more
than they have helped the environment. It's true that clean air rules (many
predating Mr. Obama) have required costly investments in pollution controls and
helped drive some old coal-fired power plants out of business. But a far greater
factor in coal's demise has been the boom in cheaper, cleaner natural gas. Coal
once generated more than half the electricity in the United States. Its share is
now closer to 30 percent.

Mr. McConnell ignores more than market forces in opposing the bill. He seems
blind as well to a federal commitment to miners that dates back 70 years to the
bare-knuckle unionism of the miners' John L. Lewis.

The plan has firm support from Democratic senators, but its success is in
serious doubt, given Mr. McConnell's stance. (He insists that the United Mine
Workers's endorsement of his opponent two years ago in a re-election race is
''irrelevant'' to his views.) He says he hopes ''we can find a way forward'' on
the issue. Fast floor action to help thousands of coal miners is the obvious way
forward.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/opinion/retired-coal-miners-losing-their-safet
y-net.html

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             287 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

French Republican Party Picks More Conservative Candidate for Presidency

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER; Benoit Morenne contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 922 words


PARIS -- French voters chose a socially conservative, budget-cutting former
prime minister on Sunday to lead the center-right Republican Party in next
year's presidential election. Once again, the outcome upset pollsters' initial
predictions, and it paved the way for a likely face-off with the country's
far-right party in 2017.

François Fillon, 62, a sober, dark-suited government veteran who called for
economic sacrifice, major changes in the French workplace and a crackdown on
immigration and Islam, won about 67 percent of the vote in the primary contest
on Sunday, crushing his more centrist opponent, Alain Juppé, who is also a
former prime minister.

French presidential elections are usually decided in two rounds, with the first
round winnowing the field to two candidates. Having won his party's primary, Mr.
Fillon is widely expected to be one of those two finalists in the general
election in the spring.

It now seems increasingly unlikely that the current governing party, the
Socialists, will produce the other. The French left is weak and in disarray
after five years in which high unemployment rates and slow economic growth have
barely budged. President François Hollande has not said whether he will run for
another term, and many in his party hope he does not.

Instead, the second contender is widely expected to be Marine Le Pen of the
far-right National Front. Her party has never been able to attract the backing
of more than about one-third of France's electorate, and for now at least, few
analysts predict that it can win the presidency next year. But the xenophobic,
anti-immigrant party has received a new lift from the triumph of President-elect
Donald J. Trump in the United States.

Mr. Fillon, with his themes of restoring France's identity and national
greatness and his tough language on immigrants and Islam, has been making a
clear play for Ms. Le Pen's voters.

His promise to slash 500,000 government jobs and cut the budget by more than 100
billion euros (about $106 billion) could leave him vulnerable against Ms. Le
Pen, who promises to safeguard France's substantial safety net of government
protections and spending. Mr. Fillon told supporters during the campaign that he
was going to ''break down the house,'' but many in France don't want the house
broken.

Promises of top-to-bottom economic overhaul have generally brought thousands of
demonstrators into the streets. Unions are already sounding warnings about Mr.
Fillon's plans to reduce the state's role in the economy, and the National Front
has heaped scorn on his proposals.

In his victory speech on Sunday night, Mr. Fillon emphasized traditional French
rightist themes of restoring ''authority'' and ''French values,'' as he did
throughout the campaign, when commentators largely dismissed his chances.

''In our country, there is an immense need for respect and pride,'' Mr. Fillon
told cheering supporters in Paris. ''There is also a demand for the authority of
the state, and for exemplary behavior from those who govern it. In my conduct,
the voters of the right and the center have found the French values to which
they are so much attached.''

His opponent, Mr. Juppé, campaigned on a ''unity'' theme that led many on the
right to suggest that he was a leftist in disguise. The notes Mr. Fillon sounded
were darker.

With many of his fellow citizens uneasy over immigration, terrorist attacks and
the integration of Muslims, Mr. Fillon vowed to restore a more traditional
France by strictly regulating Islam and limiting immigration, and promised an
alliance with Russia to crush what he called ''totalitarian'' Islamists.
Commentators have noted Mr. Fillon's close relations with Vladimir V. Putin,
Russia's president.

Mr. Fillon served as an overshadowed prime minister when Nicolas Sarkozy was
president from 2007-12. In the first round of voting on Nov. 20, he crushed his
former boss, who had regularly humiliated him.

A Catholic from conservative, rural western France, Mr. Fillon entered
Parliament in 1981; at 27, he was the house's youngest member. Catholic voters
who appreciated his positions against abortion and same-sex marriage supported
him heavily in the presidential race, even though he has promised not to
interfere with legal guarantees of either.

Mr. Fillon still sits in the National Assembly and lives in a medieval manor
house near Le Mans with his family; he has five children. During the campaign,
he spoke often of France's identity and of instilling the country's ''national
epic'' in its schools.

''France can't tolerate its slippage,'' Mr. Fillon told supporters on Sunday
night. ''France wants truth and action. This past presidential term has been
pathetic. We've got to end it and start afresh, as we haven't done in over 30
years.''

Mr. Fillon has promised to rewrite France's 3,000-page labor code, reduce taxes
on companies and the rich, raise the retirement age to 65, and lengthen the
35-hour standard workweek. He called his program ''more radical, maybe more
difficult,'' in a televised debate with Mr. Juppé last week.

''I could have said more agreeable things,'' Mr. Fillon said. ''But the only way
to keep one's promises is to have a very precise program.''

His supporters do not appear to be scared by these promises, at least for now.
''He's an upright man,'' said Roselyne Duchaine, 81, a retiree in Paris's 17th
arrondissement who said she had voted for Mr. Fillon on Sunday.

Another voter, Thierry Roland, 68, said: ''Fillon has the rigor. He shows his
hand.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/27/world/europe/francois-fillon-wins-center-right
-nomination-for-french-presidency.html

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: François Fillon, a former prime minister, in Paris on Sunday,
when he handily defeated Alain Juppé in a primary runoff. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
PHILIPPE WOJAZER/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             288 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Trump, Populist Provocateur Found the Man for His Mission

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE; Sharon LaFraniere, Jo Becker and Jacqueline Williams
contributed reporting..

Follow Scott Shane on Twitter.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5016 words


When Julia Jones arrived at her office in Santa Monica at 8 a.m. -- by Hollywood
screenwriter standards, the crack of dawn -- she found Stephen K. Bannon already
at his desk, which was cluttered with takeout coffees. They were co-writers on a
Ronald Reagan documentary, but Mr. Bannon had pretty much taken it over. He had
been at work for hours, he told her, writing feverishly about his political
hero.

Today, with Donald J. Trump, whose election Mr. Bannon helped engineer, on the
threshold of power, the 2004 film ''In the Face of Evil'' has a prophetic ring.
Its trailer has an over-the-top, apocalyptic feel: lurid footage of bombs
dropping on cities alternating with grainy clips of Reagan speeches, as a choir
provides a soaring soundtrack. The message: Only one man was up to the challenge
posed by looming domestic and global threats.

''A man with a vision,'' the trailer says. ''An outsider, a radical with extreme
views.''

The Reagan presidency has been a recurring touchstone for Mr. Bannon since 1980,
when as a 26-year-old Navy officer he talked his way into Mr. Reagan's election
night celebration. It was at an early screening of ''In the Face of Evil'' that
he met fellow Reagan admirer Andrew Breitbart, the budding conservative media
provocateur.

Breitbart.com's scorn for Muslims, immigrants and black activists drew a fervent
following on the alt-right, an extremist fringe of message boards and online
magazines popular with white supremacists, and after Mr. Bannon took control of
the website in 2012, he built a raucous coalition of the discontented.

More quietly, Mr. Bannon systematically courted a series of politicians,
especially those who share his dark, populist worldview: at home, a corrupt
ruling class preying on working Americans; globally, ''the Judeo-Christian
West'' in a ''war against Islamic fascism.'' They were views that placed him
closer to the European right than to the Republican mainstream.

He made flattering films about Michele Bachmann, the former congresswoman from
Minnesota, and Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor and vice-presidential
candidate; repeatedly pressed the television host Lou Dobbs to run for office;
and flirted with a range of Republican presidential hopefuls, including Rick
Santorum, Ben Carson and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. Finally, in Mr. Trump, Mr.
Bannon found his man.

Mr. Bannon told a colleague in multiple conversations during the presidential
campaign that he knew Mr. Trump was an ''imperfect vessel'' for the revolution
he had in mind. But the upstart candidate and the media entrepreneur bonded
anyway.

In August 2015, Mr. Bannon told Ms. Jones in an email that he had turned
Breitbart, where employees called certain political stories ''Bannon Specials,''
into ''Trump Central'' and joked that he was the candidate's hidden ''campaign
manager.'' He hosted Mr. Trump for friendly radio interviews and offered tactful
coaching. This August, with the Trump campaign foundering, Mr. Bannon took over
as chief executive.

Like Reagan, Mr. Trump addressed the people he called ''the forgotten men and
women of our country'' -- the white working and middle class. He vowed to take
on Islamic radicalism, as Reagan had faced off against communism. Echoing the
sole-savior theme of ''In the Face of Evil,'' Mr. Trump declared of the nation's
predicament, ''Only I can fix it.''

Ms. Jones, for one, had no trouble seeing the parallels. ''Trump,'' she said,
''is Steve's Reagan.''

[Video:  Trailer of the 2004 documentary ''In the Face of Evil,'' which Mr.
Bannon helped write.  Watch on YouTube.]

Mr. Trump, of course, is not Mr. Bannon's creation, and the president-elect
would not take kindly to any such implication. (Asked on Tuesday by New York
Times journalists about Mr. Bannon, Mr. Trump praised him but said, pointedly,
''I'm the one who makes the decisions.'')

But Mr. Bannon understood better than any other 2016 campaign strategist how
many voters were seeking dramatic change, said Patrick Caddell, a veteran
pollster, who all but predicted a Trump victory on election eve as most pundits
were calling the race for Hillary Clinton. ''He's been the forerunner
intellectually of this moment,'' Mr. Caddell said. ''His ideology is that of the
outsider and the insurgent.''

To understand what to expect from the Trump administration means in part to
fathom the driven, contradictory character of Mr. Bannon, whom the
president-elect has named senior counselor and chief White House strategist.
Rarely has there been so incendiary a figure at the side of a president-elect,
thrilling Mr. Trump's more extreme supporters while unnerving ethnic and
religious minorities and many other Americans.

How did this son of Richmond, Va., who attended Harvard Business School, spent
years at Goldman Sachs and became wealthy working at the intersection of
entertainment and finance come to view the political and financial elites as his
archenemy? Why does a man who calls himself a ''hard-nosed capitalist'' rail
against ''globalists'' of ''the party of Davos'' and attack the Republican
establishment with special glee?

As a filmmaker, Mr. Bannon, 63, has cited both the Nazi propagandist Leni
Riefenstahl and the left-wing documentarian Michael Moore as models. In top
physical shape as a young Navy officer, and for years wearing the banker's
uniform of expensive suits, Mr. Bannon has in recent years sported flannel
shirts and cargo pants. With a paunch and a sometimes scraggly beard, Mr. Bannon
has a rugged look that Stephen Colbert described as ''Robert Redford dredged
from a river.''

He is an avid reader of history, fond of citing Plutarch and Plato, and his
career reflects a restless, eclectic mind. He has conceived a rap musical based
on Shakespeare's ''Coriolanus'' (never completed); overseen the troubled
Biosphere 2 project, an experiment in the Arizona desert meant to mimic the
earth's ecosystem; acquired partial rights to ''Seinfeld'' before it became a
megahit; moved to Shanghai to run a company marshaling Chinese computer gamers
to earn points for Western players; and produced films on Washington corruption,
Occupy Wall Street and Phil Robertson of ''Duck Dynasty.''

Vociferous critics of his appointment, a diverse group that includes the
conservative talk-show host Glenn Beck and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont,
who challenged Mrs. Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination, have
variously called Mr. Bannon a racist, a sexist, an anti-Semite and an
Islamophobe. Interviews with two dozen people who know him well, however,
portray a man not easily labeled, capable of surprising both friends and
enemies, with unshakable self-confidence and striking intensity. (Mr. Bannon
turned down a request for an interview, saying he was too busy with the
presidential transition.)

Fans and foes agree that he is a ''screamer,'' a volcanic personality who
sometimes resorts to offensive or hyperbolic language. One of his three former
wives claimed in court papers that he had said he did not want their twin
daughters to go to school with Jews who raise their children to be ''whiny
brats,'' a claim Mr. Bannon denies. In a 2011 radio interview, he dismissed
liberal women as ''a bunch of dykes that came from the Seven Sisters schools.''

In a radio interview last year with Mr. Trump, Mr. Bannon complained,
inaccurately, that ''two-thirds or three-quarters of the C.E.O.s in Silicon
Valley are from South Asia or from Asia.'' He has sometimes portrayed a grave
threat to civilization not just from violent jihadists but from ''Islam.'' He
once suggested to a colleague that perhaps only property owners should be
allowed to vote. In an email to a Breitbart colleague in 2014, he dismissed
Republican congressional leaders with an epithet and added, ''Let the grass
roots turn on the hate.''

''No one has called him nice,'' said Patrick McSweeney, a former chairman of the
Virginia Republican Party and a Bannon admirer who has known his family for
years. ''He is the least politically correct person I know. His overriding
concern is getting the mission accomplished.''

Mr. Bannon encouraged clickbait incitement on Breitbart.com, and links to
Breitbart articles are often spread on Twitter and Facebook alongside Nazi
rhetoric and racial slurs. Saying he is an economic nationalist and not a white
nationalist, Mr. Bannon has dismissed such devotees as the kind of marginal
characters who turn up in every political movement, but he has only mildly
denounced the bigots among his admirers.

Some longtime associates said they had never heard him express bigoted views.
''In the 14 years I've known him, I've never heard him utter a racist or
anti-Semitic comment,'' said Peter Schweizer, a conservative author and the
president of the Government Accountability Institute, where Mr. Bannon was a
founder and the executive chairman.

Mr. Bannon's backers note that several of Breitbart's top editors and managers
are Jewish -- as was Mr. Breitbart himself -- and the site is staunchly
pro-Israel. They also point out that Mr. Bannon's longtime assistant, Wendy
Colbert, is African-American; so are Sonnie Johnson, a conservative writer he
promoted on Breitbart, and a former Goldman colleague who has been a close
friend for three decades and considers Mr. Bannon family, but who asked not to
be named to avoid a flood of media attention.

Mary Beth Meredith, Mr. Bannon's sister, said accusations of personal bigotry
against him were ''absolutely absurd.'' ''We have interfaith marriages in our
own family,'' she said. ''We have interracial marriages -- our family is a
microcosm of the U.S.''

Where some perceive racism and nativism, others see a different -ism:
opportunism. Whatever may be in his heart, they say, Mr. Bannon was happy to
draw a white nationalist following to Breitbart, while denying that was his
intent.

Ben Shapiro, a former Breitbart editor who has been sharply critical of Mr.
Bannon, called him ''a manipulator'' who had ''mainstreamed'' far-right
extremists for cynical political purposes.

Ms. Jones, Mr. Bannon's former film collaborator, who describes herself as very
liberal, said, ''Steve's not a racist.''

But, she added, ''he's using the alt-right -- using them for power.''

'Son of the South'

Robin Mickle, a fellow Navy officer of Mr. Bannon's aboard the destroyer Paul F.
Foster, remembers that he and some of his idealistic mates were struck by
something Mr. Bannon told them in 1978.

''He said he joined the Navy so it would look good on his résumé because he
wanted to go into politics someday,'' said Mr. Mickle, a retired defense
contractor.

Another officer, Sonny Masso, who would stay in the Navy and eventually make
admiral, recalls a devoted reader of The Wall Street Journal who picked stocks
to buy through a San Diego broker and had an astonishing ability to retain
information.

He was fit, too. ''He'd run five miles at lunch and he had a 32-inch waist,''
Mr. Masso said. ''Very preppy when we were out of uniform -- polo shirts with
alligators on them, and penny loafers with no socks.''

Mr. Bannon was the middle child of five in an Irish Catholic family from a leafy
North Richmond neighborhood. His father, Martin, 95, to whom he remains very
close, was a telephone lineman who had worked his way into middle management at
the phone company.

Steve and his two brothers went to Benedictine High School, an all-male Catholic
military school in Richmond where the boys wore uniforms, kept their hair short
and were called cadets. ''It was a very conservative world,'' said John Pudner,
a Benedictine graduate who knows Mr. Bannon and runs Take Back Our Republic, an
advocacy group based in Alabama.

Steve was bit of a brawler as a boy, said his older brother Mike Bannon. ''He
was a fighter. He was a guy that believed what he believed.'' On occasion, Steve
summoned Mike to the neighborhood pool for reinforcement. ''He'd get in little
scrapes and come back and get me, and I'd say, 'I wished it wasn't eight guys we
were fighting. If it was two or three, I wouldn't mind.'''

Mike Bannon, eager to rebut charges of racism against his brother, said the boys
took two buses to get to Benedictine, and their parents instructed them to give
up their seats if a woman boarded: ''It didn't make any difference if they were
black or white or Indian or Jewish or anything else,'' he said.

Their mother, Doris, who died many years ago, loved to tell them about sneaking
Jewish friends into her neighborhood pool in Baltimore -- past a sign that said
''No Jews Allowed.'' She later worked on campaigns for Douglas Wilder, a
Democrat who became the first African-American governor of Virginia.

For Mike Bannon, his brother Steve is ''a son of the South'' who has never
shifted his principles or his character. ''He knew who he was in fourth grade
and he's never changed much over the years,'' he said. ''He's very comfortable
in his own skin.''

At Virginia Tech, Steve Bannon got his first taste of politics, winning the
Student Government Association presidency in a 1975 race that grew quite heated
after he challenged the status quo. An opponent, Gary Clisham, told the student
newspaper that Mr. Bannon had ''immense charisma'' but predicted that he would
get nothing done.

After graduation, Mr. Bannon joined the Navy, attended Officer Candidate School
and served two deployments aboard the Foster, a guided-missile destroyer that
took him all over Asia and into the Persian Gulf. His basketball style --
running the length of the court without passing -- earned him a sarcastic
nickname, Coast-to-Coast, said Mr. Masso, his shipmate. Still, he said, Mr.
Bannon was popular with the sailors he led in the engineering department, nearly
50 men, the majority of them African-American, Hispanic or Asian.

Though his family had Democratic roots, Mr. Bannon, like most of his fellow
officers, was scornful of President Jimmy Carter and entranced by Ronald Reagan.
At Mr. Masso's condo, while they watched the two candidates' debate on
television in 1980, Mr. Bannon could hardly contain his excitement.

''He was pacing my living room, and whenever there was a point-counterpoint,
he'd say, 'Yeah!' like we were watching a boxing match,'' Mr. Masso said. When
Mr. Bannon heard later that the Reagan election night party was planned for a
Los Angeles hotel, the Century Plaza, he worked the phones to try for tickets.

When he got the brushoff, Mr. Masso said, Mr. Bannon said, ''Hey, listen pal, we
just got back from the Persian Gulf.'' Soon, he had Reagan aide Lyn Nofziger on
the phone saying, ''The governor would be honored to have you there.'' It was 4
a.m. when their group left the victory celebration to return to the ship, Mr.
Masso said.

Both men went on to take Pentagon jobs, and Mr. Bannon earned a master's degree
in international relations at Georgetown at the same time. Mr. Masso thought his
friend might try to get into politics, but he was accepted at Harvard Business
School, and he left the Navy in 1983 to begin a new life.

'Working 100 Hours a Week'

Friends at Harvard and later at Goldman Sachs were aware of Mr. Bannon's
conservative views, but politics was rarely discussed. ''He was in mergers and
acquisitions, I was in corporate finance, and we were both working 100 hours a
week,'' said Scot Vorse, who met Mr. Bannon on their first day at Harvard and
joined Goldman at the same time.

After less than four years, Mr. Bannon left Goldman to start his own firm,
Bannon & Co., which Mr. Vorse soon joined. As head of a scrappy start-up going
up against financial behemoths to get Hollywood deals, Mr. Bannon showed the
fierce competitiveness that would later drive his politics.

''We were the underdog,'' Mr. Vorse said. ''We were competing for the business
of the biggest entertainment companies in the world, and we did well.'' Mr.
Vorse said Bannon & Co. represented the Saudi businessman Prince Alwaleed bin
Talal; the Italian media tycoon and later the prime minister Silvio Berlusconi;
Samsung; Westinghouse; and other big players.

Mr. Vorse was the detail man, he said. Mr. Bannon ''was the visionary, seeing
things before anyone else. He was the rainmaker. He was a leader.''

Even as they became successful, Mr. Bannon was not a lavish spender. ''He was
driving an eight-year-old Celica convertible,'' he said.

In fact, Mr. Bannon appears to have gone through some lean moments in the 1990s
-- court records show five federal and four state tax liens for amounts from
$10,993 to $136,610. Ms. Jones, his film collaborator, said that when Mr. Bannon
and his second wife, Mary Louise Piccard, separated, he lived for a time in a
spare room at the home of his first wife, Cathleen Houff Jordan. Ms. Piccard had
accused Mr. Bannon of grabbing her wrist and neck during an argument, an
allegation he denied.

But in 1993, as part of the sale of Castle Rock Entertainment to Turner
Broadcasting System, he acquired a share of the royalties from ''Seinfeld,'' a
move that would prove extremely lucrative as the show became a cultural force.

In 1998, Bannon & Co. was acquired by Société Générale, and Mr. Bannon ran a
series of companies working at the intersection of entertainment and finance.

''Very intense, very passionate,'' said Trevor Drinkwater, who worked with him
in film distribution from 2004 to 2010. ''I was impressed that while he was very
right wing, he had a lot of liberal friends.'' He saw Mr. Bannon's dress evolve
toward the casual, ''the flannel shirt over the polo shirt.''

Through films, Mr. Bannon was turning his attention back to politics. Tim
Watkins, his co-director on the Reagan documentary, said Mr. Bannon worked from
7 a.m. to 2 a.m. ''I've never known him to, say, go to a ballgame,'' he said.
But Mr. Watkins found his collaborator's combativeness wearying.

''Steve thinks everything has to be a fight,'' he said. Once, an argument broke
out when he told Mr. Bannon that the rough cut of the film, at two hours and 10
minutes, should be trimmed further. Angry, Mr. Bannon ''actually flipped over
the table,'' Mr. Watkins said.

At first, he recalled, before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, they
intended to make a standard biopic. But the attacks ''changed the film
radically,'' Mr. Watkins said. Mr. Reagan's Cold War battles merged with the
coda, which showed the hijacked airliners hitting the World Trade Center and
people jumping to their deaths.

''Steve crafted a lot of the big ideas,'' Mr. Watkins said, notably that ''life
is a battle of good and evil, and history repeats itself.''

Lou Cannon, a Reagan biographer, rejects comparisons of Mr. Reagan and Mr.
Trump. He notes that Mr. Reagan had been governor of California before becoming
president, never demonized opponents and signed a law giving amnesty to three
million undocumented immigrants. Nonetheless, Mr. Watkins sees striking
similarities and is sure Mr. Bannon does, too. In the Reagan memorabilia he
accumulated while working on the film, Mr. Watkins said, he recently found some
lapel stickers.

''Let's Make America Great Again,'' they read.

Anger at the Elite

When his eldest child, Maureen, got into West Point, Mr. Bannon was thrilled and
joked about switching his allegiance to Army from Navy. He never missed her
volleyball games, and he was at Fort Campbell, Ky., in 2011 when she returned
from a deployment to Iraq. ''That was one of the greatest feelings I've had,
seeing my dad when I walked off the plane,'' she said.

But through his daughter's service, he saw an inequity that fueled his anger at
the privileged Americans among whom he had long worked.

At West Point, ''he saw a complete, utter lack of people from the upper economic
levels of American society,'' said Mr. Schweizer, the conservative writer. ''He
thought it was appalling, especially because the elite set so many policies that
sent these kids into war.''

Mr. Bannon was put off by the George W. Bush administration's creation in 2003
of the Medicare prescription drug benefit, which he saw as a blatant giveaway to
the pharmaceutical companies. The financial collapse of 2008 and the bailouts
that followed infuriated him, including the devastating effect of the stock
market collapse on the retirement accounts of men like his father, a phone
company retiree.

Mr. Bannon often spoke to friends about his father's ''honest work,''
contrasting it with the paper-pushing he had seen on Wall Street. ''We consider
ourselves middle class, and we think the middle class has been shafted,'' Mike
Bannon said. ''Black, Hispanic, white, everybody. The political class has given
them happy talk but delivered nothing. I think that's what Steve's talking
about.''

[Video: In 2010, Mr. Bannon spoke at Tea Party gathering in New York City.
Watch on YouTube.]

By the time of a Tea Party gathering in 2010 in New York, Steve Bannon had fully
embraced a class-based diagnosis of the country's woes: ''In the last 20 years,
our financial elites and the political class have taken care of themselves and
led our country to the brink of ruin,'' he said. By contrast, he said, the Tea
Party was backed by ''the people who fight our wars, pay our taxes, run our
civic organizations, who build our cities and who hold our neighborhoods
together.''

Mr. Bannon honed his message as he reached out to politicians, beginning with
his films about Mrs. Bachmann and Ms. Palin. He criticized the conservative
elite, including some of his former business colleagues. ''The reason I made
these films is my buddies on Wall Street said, 'These women are a bunch of
bimbos,''' he told a 2011 gathering. ''I said, 'I know Governor Palin and
Congresswoman Bachmann -- they're every bit as tough and smart as you guys
are.'''

At times, Mr. Bannon's rants against the ruling class -- in which he is at least
as unsparing of Republicans as of Democrats -- strikingly echo populists on the
left. In a revealing 2014 talk via Skype to a Vatican conference, some of his
words might have come from Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts or Mr.
Sanders of Vermont.

''Not one criminal charge has ever been brought to any bank executive associated
with the 2008 crisis,'' Mr. Bannon fumed. ''And in fact, it gets worse. No
bonuses and none of their equity was taken.''

But if his scathing economic analysis sometimes seemed to dabble in Marxism, on
other subjects, including race and religion, he made no concessions to political
sensitivities. After Mr. Bannon met Mr. Breitbart at the 2004 screening of ''In
the Face of Evil,'' the two men hit it off, bonding over their similar views and
a common irreverent streak.

Ms. Jones, the film colleague, said that in their years working together, Mr.
Bannon occasionally talked about the genetic superiority of some people and once
mused about the desirability of limiting the vote to property owners.

''I said, 'That would exclude a lot of African-Americans,''' Ms. Jones recalled.
''He said, 'Maybe that's not such a bad thing.' I said, 'But what about
Wendy?''' referring to Mr. Bannon's executive assistant. ''He said, 'She's
different. She's family.'''

Mr. Bannon's African-American friend from his Goldman years said that he had
been at pains to defend him in recent years to mutual acquaintances put off
first by Breitbart's reputation and now by Mr. Bannon's association with Mr.
Trump. Most Christmas seasons over the past two decades, he said, Mr. Bannon was
''my only token white guy,'' or one of two or three, invited to an annual dinner
at a New York City club for nearly a score of African-American friends who work
or worked in finance.

''Now I'm getting a lot of, 'What happened to Steve?''' from concerned black
acquaintances, the friend said. He said he hoped Mr. Bannon -- and more
important, Mr. Trump -- would more forthrightly denounce the bigots who have
cheered them on. Still, he said, he completely rejects the accusations against
Mr. Bannon.

''Hell, no, he's not a white nationalist,'' the friend said.

Mr. Bannon took over as executive chairman of Breitbart News in 2012 after Mr.
Breitbart died, playing a hands-on role in assigning, approving and sometimes
dictating changes to articles, according to several former Breitbart employees.
Staff members grew polarized for or against him. Most of them spoke on the
condition of anonymity because they had signed a nondisclosure agreement.

They describe a decentralized operation overseen by Mr. Bannon in two conference
calls a day. Employees rarely had any idea where their peripatetic boss was
because he seemed to be constantly moving between homes, offices or borrowed
premises in Florida, Washington, New York and occasionally Los Angeles or
London.

Mr. Bannon's critics assert that he sometimes put his political preferences
ahead of fairness or even of the facts, directing that stories be rewritten to
his specifications and shrugging off protests that his changes might make them
inaccurate. While Breitbart did not traffic in outright racial slurs, it
specialized in inflammatory coverage of police shootings, immigration and Islam
in ways intended to prick liberal pieties.

Alex Marlow, the editor in chief of Breitbart, denied that Mr. Bannon ever
deliberately permitted an inaccurate story to run on the site. ''Breitbart
represents certain values, like conservatism, populism and nationalism, and
Steve Bannon wanted our content to reflect that,'' Mr. Marlow said. He said the
site has 45 million readers and should not be judged by ''a couple thousand
people on Twitter'' who express offensive views.

In 2011, as Mr. Trump pondered a 2012 presidential run, David Bossie, a
conservative activist who headed Citizens United, took Mr. Bannon to Trump Tower
in New York to meet him. ''They definitely hit it off,'' said Mr. Bossie, who
has collaborated with Mr. Bannon on a series of films.

Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon had in common a willingness to defy some
small-government conservative notions -- for instance, by pushing for a large,
costly infrastructure plan to create jobs.

Mr. Bannon was deeply impressed in 2014 when an insurgent Virginia Republican,
David Brat, managed an unexpected primary race upset of Representative Eric
Cantor, the House majority leader. ''He began casting around for other
unconventional candidates to support -- people that were not a part of the
establishment and would run populist campaigns,'' Mr. Schweizer said.

As Mr. Bannon became a steadily more obvious supporter of Mr. Trump, some
Breitbart editors and reporters thought he was turning a news site into a
propaganda platform -- though other staff members approved. Mr. Shapiro was the
most outspoken critic, saying that Mr. Bannon had ''betrayed'' Mr. Breitbart's
mission of ''fighting the bullies.''

''In my opinion, Steve Bannon is a bully, and has sold out Andrew's mission in
order to back another bully, Donald Trump,'' Mr. Shapiro wrote in a statement
when he quit Breitbart in March in support of Michelle Fields, a Breitbart
reporter who had been roughly grabbed by Corey Lewandowski, then Mr. Trump's
campaign manager. ''He has shaped the company into Trump's personal Pravda.''

If the criticism bothered Mr. Bannon, he did not show it. He was already deeply
involved in advising Mr. Trump, and he believed, unlike most pollsters and
pundits, that the chaotic, low-budget campaign had a chance.

One warm evening in August, after Mr. Trump called on Mr. Bannon to take charge
of the campaign, Mr. Caddell, the pollster, met with him at a New York hotel,
sitting outside on a veranda.

Mr. Bannon said he knew the campaign needed discipline, with Mr. Trump more
consistently presenting himself as a populist outsider, Mr. Caddell recalled.
''He said, 'Believe me, I'm going to bring this home. I know what needs to be
done, and I'm going to do it,''' Mr. Caddell said.

Whatever Reagan scholars like Mr. Cannon might say, Mr. Bossie, who also joined
the Trump campaign, said that he and Mr. Bannon discussed Reagan parallels as
they saw huge crowds waiting for hours to hear Mr. Trump. Mr. Reagan had run
when many voters felt the country was threatened at home and abroad, Mr. Bossie
said. ''You can see the same things today with Donald Trump -- that America has
lost its way and it's lost its strength, and Americans are looking for
leadership,'' he said.

Kellyanne Conway, who took the job of campaign manager when Mr. Bannon became
chief executive, would later call him ''the general'' who made many critical
decisions. He pushed for Mr. Trump to visit Flint, Mich., where the water supply
was contaminated with lead, and to appear at a black church. Mr. Bannon also
hugely accelerated the tempo of what he thought had been a 9-to-5 campaign.

After a devastating recording surfaced of Mr. Trump bragging about sexually
assaulting women, it was Mr. Bannon's idea to ''race to the bottom'' by inviting
women who had accused former President Bill Clinton of sexual abuse to attend a
presidential debate, according to another campaign official. Mr. Bannon believed
airing the competing accusations would allow the campaign to return more quickly
to the core issues of American nationalism and a suffering middle class, the
official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity about internal
discussions.

In the final weeks of the campaign, Mr. Bannon was sure the polls pointing to a
Clinton victory were wrong, other campaign officials said. His family, including
all four siblings and his 95-year-old father, made the trip to New York City for
election night.

For Mr. Bannon, the long night at the New York Hilton was his second
presidential campaign victory gathering, coming 36 years after the first. At
4:30 a.m., Mr. Vorse, his former colleague, reached him to offer
congratulations. He was reminded of their Hollywood days, when ''we would have
victories and Steve would celebrate for two seconds, and then it was on to the
next thing.''

''He said, 'I got to go because we have a meeting in three hours. I got to
hop.'''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/27/us/politics/steve-bannon-white-house.html

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen K. Bannon, left, the chief executive of Donald J.
Trump's campaign, with Mr. Trump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
EARLY POLITICIAN: Stephen K. Bannon in 1975, when he ran successfully for
Virginia Tech student body president.
ANTI-ELITE: Mr. Bannon at the Virginia Tea Party convention in 2010 in Richmond.
By then he was against ''elites.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FULTZ/ZUMAPRESS.COM)
CLOSE TIES: Mr. Bannon with his father, Martin Bannon, with whom he is close, at
home in Richmond, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA JULIA JONES)
THE EMBASSY: Mr. Bannon and Breitbart staff at his Washington townhouse, known
as the Breitbart Embassy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY LIEBMAN) (A14)
FROM REAGAN TO TRUMP: Mr. Bannon, a fan of Ronald Reagan, at a campaign rally
for Donald J. Trump on Oct. 28 in Manchester, N.H. ''Trump,'' a colleague of his
said, ''is Steve's Reagan.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 BANNON'S FOES: A protest in Los Angeles against Mr. Bannon's being named chief
strategist of the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
-- GETTY IMAGES) (A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             289 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Trump Officially Wins Michigan Amid Calls for a Recount

BYLINE: By NIRAJ CHOKSHI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Express; Pg.

LENGTH: 168 words


Donald J. Trump was officially declared the winner of the presidential election
in Michigan on Monday amid calls for a recount there and in two other states.

Mr. Trump, a Republican, defeated Hillary Clinton, his Democratic opponent, by
10,704 votes in the state, or less than a quarter of a percentage point, the
Michigan Board of State Canvassers announced, nearly three weeks after the Nov.
8 election.

The results, should they hold, bring his Electoral College vote total to 306,
well beyond the 270 needed to win. Mrs. Clinton has 232. Michigan contributed 16
electoral votes to Mr. Trump's total.

News of his victory in Michigan came as Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate,
said she planned to call for a recount there after pursuing recounts in two
other states. Wisconsin officials approved a timeline for a recount on Monday,
and Ms. Stein is also suing for a recount in Pennsylvania, according to The
Associated Press.

Mr. Trump won all three states by a combined total of about 100,000 votes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/us/donald-trump-officially-wins-michigan.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             290 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Threatening Cuba Will Backfire

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 472 words


As Cubans continued either to mourn or to celebrate the death of Fidel Castro,
President-elect Donald Trump issued a vague ultimatum to the Cuban government on
Monday. ''If Cuba is unwilling to make a better deal for the Cuban people, the
Cuban/American people and the U.S. as a whole, I will terminate deal,'' Mr.
Trump wrote on Twitter.

While Cuba is hardly the most pressing foreign policy challenge Mr. Trump will
inherit in January, he is facing calls to roll back the Obama administration's
policy of engagement, a move that would be extremely shortsighted.

President Obama's opening with Havana in 2014 hasn't been an instant catalyst of
democracy, freedom and prosperity. But it has helped establish conditions for
ordinary Cubans to have greater autonomy in a society long run as a police
state. It has also enabled Cuban-Americans to play a larger role in shaping the
nation's future, primarily by providing capital for the island's nascent private
sector. While the Cuban government and the Obama White House continue to have
profound disagreements on issues such as human rights, the two governments have
established a robust bilateral agenda that includes cooperation on environmental
policy, maritime issues, migration, organized crime and responses to pandemics.
These hard-won diplomatic achievements have benefited both sides.

As a businessman, Mr. Trump explored the possibility of investing in Cuba during
the 1990s, in violation of the trade embargo. As a presidential candidate, he
spoke approvingly of engaging with Cuba, before taking a more hard-line position
during the final days of the race in the pursuit of Cuban-American votes in
Florida.

If Mr. Trump's Cuba policy matches his latest rhetoric, cooperation is likely to
wane. That would only embolden hard-liners in the Cuban regime who are leery of
mending ties with the United States and are committed to maintaining Cuba as a
repressive socialist bulwark. In Mr. Trump, they may find the ideal foil to
stoke nationalism among Cubans who are fiercely protective of their nation's
sovereignty and right to self-determination.

More than five decades of Cold War isolation never led to greater freedoms for
Cubans. The Castro government has long justified its stifling controls on its
citizens and its centrally planned economy by portraying Cuba as a nation under
siege.

Alternatively, Mr. Trump could build on Mr. Obama's approach by pressing
lawmakers to do away with the senseless embargo. Once that happened, the
American government would be better positioned to keep promoting freedom of
expression, free enterprise and democratic governance, while making it clear
that the future of Cuba must be decided by Cubans.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/29/opinion/threatening-cuba-will-backfire.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             291 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Trump's Lies About the Vote

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 763 words


One big fear in the weeks leading up to the presidential election was that
Donald Trump would try to delegitimize the results by claiming rampant voter
fraud -- a bogus specter he had raised throughout the campaign, particularly as
his polling numbers got worse.

In that scenario, of course, Mr. Trump was the loser. No one imagined he would
say the election was rigged if he won. And yet here we are.

On Sunday, President-elect Trump unleashed a barrage of tweets complaining about
calls for recounts or vote audits in several closely contested states, and
culminating in this message: ''In addition to winning the Electoral College in a
landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted
illegally.''

In addition to winning the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular
vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally -- Donald J. Trump
(@realDonaldTrump) November 27, 2016

This is a lie, part of Mr. Trump's pattern, stretching back many years, of
disregard for indisputable facts. There is no evidence of illegal voting on even
a small scale anywhere in the country, let alone a systematic conspiracy
involving ''millions.'' But this is the message that gets hammered relentlessly
by right-wing propaganda sites like InfoWars, which is run by a conspiracy
theorist who claims the Sandy Hook school massacre was a hoax -- and whose
absurdities Mr. Trump has often shouted through his megaphone, which will
shortly bear the presidential seal. Mr. Trump added more fuel to the fire with
the false claim of ''serious voter fraud'' in California, Virginia and New
Hampshire -- all states that went for Hillary Clinton.

In addition to insulting law-abiding voters everywhere, these lies about fraud
threaten the foundations of American democracy. They have provided the
justification for state voter-suppression laws around the country, and they
could give the Trump administration a pretext to roll back voting rights on a
national scale.

And why is Mr. Trump so hung up on the popular vote in the first place? After
all, he won where it counts -- in the Electoral College. And yet, in the three
weeks since his victory, Mr. Trump has already admitted at least twice that he
would prefer the presidency be determined by the popular vote, and not by 538
electors. It's clear he feels threatened by Mrs. Clinton's popular-vote lead --
now more than 2.3 million and  expected to exceed 2.5 million; as a percentage
of the electorate, that is a wider margin than five presidents  enjoyed. With
support for third-party candidates added in, 54 percent of voters rejected Mr.
Trump.

So maybe his touchiness is understandable. Like most people, Mr. Trump senses
the fundamental unfairness of awarding the presidency to the loser of the
popular vote. In fact, he made that argument himself, back on election night in
2012, calling the Electoral College ''a disaster for democracy'' when he
believed, incorrectly, that President Obama would lose the popular vote and
still win re-election. (In recent weeks he's changed his tune, calling it a
''genius'' idea.) What Mr. Trump may not know, given his lack of interest in
American history, is that the Electoral College was designed specifically to
enhance the influence of white voters in Southern states, which were allowed to
factor in their large slave populations.

Today the Electoral College continues to give an outsized benefit to smaller and
less populous states -- a Wyoming resident's vote weighs 3.6 times more than a
Californian's. So the less populous states will never agree to amend it out of
the Constitution. But states may allocate their electoral votes however they
choose, and that opens the door to greater equity without changing the
Constitution -- namely, the National Popular Vote interstate compact. This is an
agreement among a group of states to award all their electoral votes to the
winner of the national popular vote. Eleven states and the District of Columbia
have already adopted it, representing 165 electoral votes. The compact would
take effect once states representing a majority of electoral votes, currently
270, signed on -- ensuring that the national popular-vote winner became
president.

We can't expect Mr. Trump to throw his weight behind this initiative, given his
new support for the Electoral College. But if he's truly worried about the
legitimacy of the 2016 election, why doesn't he call for a recount?

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/opinion/donald-trumps-lies-about-the-popular-v
ote.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICOLE XU)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             292 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Petraeus Meets Trump as the Latest Candidate for Secretary of State

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington,
and Maggie Haberman from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1253 words


WASHINGTON -- President-elect Donald J. Trump met on Monday with David H.
Petraeus, the highly decorated but scandal-scarred former military commander,
who has emerged as a new contender for secretary of state after days of bitter
internal feuding over who will get the coveted post.

Mr. Petraeus, a retired general and former C.I.A. director, spent an hour with
Mr. Trump at his offices in Trump Tower in Manhattan and told reporters
afterward that the president-elect had given him a tutorial on world affairs.

''He basically walked us around the world,'' Mr. Petraeus said. ''Showed a great
grasp of a variety of the challenges that are out there and some of the
opportunities as well. Very good conversation, and we'll see where it goes from
here.'' In a Twitter post 15 minutes later, Mr. Trump said, ''Just met with
General Petraeus -- was very impressed!''

Mr. Trump spent the day in back-to-back meetings after a quiet Thanksgiving
weekend at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla. In addition to seeing Mr.
Petraeus, he met with Frances Fragos Townsend, a Homeland Security official in
the Bush administration, and with David A. Clarke Jr., the Milwaukee County
sheriff. Both are candidates for secretary of Homeland Security.

As he was leaving Trump Tower on Monday, Vice President-elect Mike Pence said,
''There will be a number of very important announcements tomorrow.''

Mr. Trump has already conferred with the other two leading candidates for the
State Department post: Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012
Republican presidential nominee, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former New York City
mayor. He was scheduled to meet Mr. Romney again for dinner on Tuesday.

But Mr. Trump's deliberations have become bogged down, with people in his camp
deeply divided over whether he should choose Mr. Giuliani, a steadfast loyalist
with a record of problematic business dealings, or Mr. Romney, an establishment
figure who denounced him during the campaign and has been publicly opposed by
some of Mr. Trump's closest advisers.

Mr. Petraeus, 64, has his own black mark: He was prosecuted for mishandling
classified material in a scandal stemming from an extramarital affair with his
biographer. During the relationship, he turned over his confidential diary to
the biographer, Paula Broadwell, leading the F.B.I. to recommend that he be
charged with a felony. He pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor.

If he is nominated, that could raise hurdles for Mr. Petraeus with Democrats and
even some Republicans at his Senate confirmation hearing. It could also prompt
the intelligence agencies to recommend against giving him a security clearance,
though legal experts said the president could override that.

At a minimum, it would open Mr. Trump to charges of hypocrisy. He made Hillary
Clinton's handling of classified information, through her use of a private email
address and computer server, the centerpiece of his attacks on her character and
trustworthiness. The director of the F.B.I., James B. Comey, has said that Mr.
Petraeus's transgressions were more serious than Mrs. Clinton's.

''The Petraeus case was a classic security breach that rightly resulted in
criminal action,'' said Richard W. Painter, the chief White House ethics lawyer
from 2005 to 2007. ''It just reeks of hypocrisy.''

Steven Aftergood, who directs the project on government secrecy at the
Federation of American Scientists, said, ''It suggests that much of the campaign
hoopla directed against Hillary Clinton by Mr. Trump was manufactured, and not
sincere.'' But he added: ''I don't think it's a fatal flaw. One could imagine
more problematic candidates.''

Ethics officials who worked in the Obama administration agreed. Norman L. Eisen,
who served as President Obama's ethics counsel during his transition and at the
White House, said he believed that Mr. Petraeus had paid a price for his
misdeeds and deserved a second chance.

''I do believe that at the career level, there would be reservations,'' Mr.
Eisen said. ''But at the policy-maker level, there will be a judgment that if
the president deems it worthy, he should get the clearances he needs. My own
judgment, for what it's worth, is that I would support it.''

Mr. Petraeus, whose friends said he was eager for the job, would bring obvious
qualifications to the State Department. He is a politically astute military
commander with experience in Iraq and Afghanistan, two conflicts that will
immediately confront the new president, as well as a Ph.D. in international
relations from Princeton. His C.I.A. experience gave him broad exposure to
America's clandestine operations.

Gen. Jack Keane, a former Army vice chief of staff, said he had recommended Mr.
Petraeus to Mr. Trump in a meeting two weeks ago, when Mr. Trump was sounding
General Keane out for the job of defense secretary. General Keane was a mentor
to Mr. Petraeus, and saved his life in 1991 when Mr. Petraeus was shot
accidentally during a live-fire exercise.

''He has an extraordinary portfolio, having run two theaters of war and directed
the Central Intelligence Agency,'' General Keane said. ''That level of
experience would be invaluable to the president, given the fact that he is a
strategic thinker, is well versed on the issues of the day, and has an amazing
network of heads of state and foreign and defense ministers.''

Mr. Petraeus was a central player in the George W. Bush and Obama
administrations, winning renown for his leadership of the troop surge in Iraq
and helping persuade Mr. Obama to pursue a similar counterinsurgency strategy,
with more mixed results, in Afghanistan.

He would bring a worldview to the job of secretary of state that is more in line
with the thinking of its current occupant, John Kerry, than with Mr. Trump's.
While Mr. Trump says the United States has spent trillions in the Middle East
and gotten a ''disaster'' in return, Mr. Petraeus has argued that the investment
in Iraq is finally paying off, though the future remains uncertain. He has
advocated continued engagement in the region, warning that after the Islamic
State is gone, another extremist group will replace it.

Mr. Petraeus is still frequently cited for his work as the editor of ''The U.S.
Army/Marine Corps Counterinsurgency Field Manual,'' which laid out the
troop-intensive strategy used by Mr. Bush in Iraq and Mr. Obama in Afghanistan.
During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump opposed such intensive American
engagement and said the United States should stop nation-building overseas.

After taking direct command of the war in Afghanistan in 2010, Mr. Petraeus
retired from the military and returned to Washington to head the C.I.A. In that
role, he pushed -- along with Mrs. Clinton, then secretary of state -- to supply
weapons to moderate rebels in Syria.

He cultivated close ties with Mrs. Clinton and might well have turned up on
lists of her potential cabinet picks had she won the election -- a factor that
might hinder him with some in Mr. Trump's circle. Because he was one of the few
military officers of his generation to rise to national celebrity, there was
even speculation that Mr. Petraeus might someday run for the White House
himself.

Since leaving the government, Mr. Petraeus has worked for a New York investment
firm, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, and held an array of fellowships and
teaching appointments around the country.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/us/politics/donald-trump-transition-david-petr
aeus.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David H. Petraeus, center, with Anthony Scaramucci, a member of
President-elect Donald J. Trump's transition team, at Trump Tower on Monday in
Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             293 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Recount Push Advances in 3 States, but a Reversal Is Unlikely

BYLINE: By STEVE EDER and TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1032 words


President-elect Donald J. Trump is well into filling out his cabinet and picking
key advisers. But a move to challenge the vote tallies in three swing states --
an extreme long shot to reverse his Electoral College majority -- is advancing
in the background, creating a noisy distraction on Mr. Trump's Twitter feed and
raising last-ditch hopes of some Hillary Clinton supporters.

In Wisconsin, elections officials said on Monday that a recount of the state's
nearly three million votes would most likely begin on Thursday. In Pennsylvania,
Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential candidate, who initiated the recounts,
filed a legal challenge of the results in state court. And the Stein campaign
said it planned to request a recount in Michigan on Wednesday.

Neither Ms. Stein nor the Clinton campaign has found evidence of election
tampering in any of the three states, where Mr. Trump beat Mrs. Clinton by a
combined margin of only about 100,000 votes. But once Ms. Stein seized on the
issue last week, the Clinton campaign said it, too, would join in the efforts to
seek recounts.

Mrs. Clinton has been urged by her supporters to challenge the results, but she
has done so only in a passive way. A campaign lawyer said that her team would
''participate'' in a manner that ensured fairness, but that it had ''not
uncovered any actionable evidence'' of hacking or other interference.

The Clinton campaign will pay to have its own lawyers present at recount sites,
but it is not contributing money to the effort, campaign officials have said.

Ms. Stein said she had invited every candidate, including Mr. Trump, to join her
calls for recounts, but she is not seeking money or legal input from the
remnants of the Clinton campaign.

''We would not want to be collaborating with the Clinton campaign on this,'' Ms.
Stein said.

Mr. Trump's spokesman, Jason Miller, said in an email that the ''mere talk of a
recount by someone who got less than 1%'' -- Ms. Stein -- ''is a joke.''

The recount push irked Mr. Trump, who said on Twitter that Democrats were
joining what he called a ''scam'' by the Green Party to ''fill up their coffers
by asking for impossible recounts.''

The president-elect also returned to the issue of voter fraud over the weekend,
advancing the baseless charge that ''millions'' of people voted illegally.

He singled out California, Virginia and New Hampshire for ''serious voter
fraud'' -- prompting a rebuff from Alex Padilla, the California secretary of
state, who said on Twitter that Mr. Trump's ''reckless tweets are inappropriate
and unbecoming of a president-elect.''

In a span of less than an hour on Monday night, Mr. Trump wrote five Twitter
posts in which he asserted without providing evidence that there had been voter
fraud, criticized journalists for not doing their jobs and said the fraud had
benefited Mrs. Clinton.

Ms. Stein, who finished a distant fourth in the popular vote on Nov. 8, had
raised about $6.3 million of a $7 million goal as of Monday to cover the costs
of three recounts.

To begin the recount in Wisconsin, the state must receive payment of $3.5
million by Tuesday afternoon to cover the estimated costs, the Wisconsin
Elections Commission said on Monday. The commission approved a schedule, which
includes county clerks and canvass members being briefed on procedures on
Wednesday morning, with the recount beginning Thursday and being completed by
Dec. 12 and certified on Dec. 13. The Electoral College votes on Dec. 19.

Ms. Stein asked that the recount of ballots be done entirely by hand, but the
elections commission rejected that request. It instead allowed counties to
determine whether the ballots should be counted manually or with tabulating
equipment. Ms. Stein said on Monday that she would sue to demand the hand count.

In all three states, the Stein campaign is seeking to answer the question of
whether the vote was hacked by introducing malicious software into voting
machines. The possibility was raised by J. Alex Halderman, a computer science
professor at the University of Michigan. Although no evidence of hacking exists,
Ms. Stein wants to compare paper records of votes with electronic tallies of
voting machines, and to subject touch-screen machines (which do not leave a
paper trail) to forensic analysis.

In Pennsylvania, the hurdles are higher in terms of the number of votes
necessary to reverse Mr. Trump's victory, as well as the procedures for
initiating a recount.

The state, where Mr. Trump holds a lead of 70,638 votes, or 1.1 percent, allows
any three voters to petition to recount their local precinct. But despite a call
on Sunday from Ms. Stein on Facebook for thousands of Pennsylvanians to file the
paperwork, in many cases the deadlines have come and gone, according to the
Pennsylvania Department of State.

There are more than 9,000 voting precincts in Pennsylvania. Wanda Murren, a
spokeswoman for the State Department, said she was aware of petitions in only a
handful of the state's 67 counties.

The Stein campaign said that as of Monday, voters had filed recount petitions in
120 precincts, including more than 70 in Philadelphia, where the county has not
yet certified the vote and petitions can still be accepted, according to Ilann
Maazel, a lawyer for the campaign.

In Michigan, a candidate can request a recount by citing fraud or errors, said
Fred Woodhams, a spokesman for the Michigan secretary of state. But other
candidates, like Mr. Trump, could potentially object to such a request by
appealing to the Board of State Canvassers.

At a meeting on Monday, where the canvassers certified the election results, a
representative for Ms. Stein said her campaign planned to request a complete
hand recount by a deadline on Wednesday. The campaign would need to pay
estimated costs of $800,000, and a recount could start as early as Friday.

''People will be working well after 5 p.m. and on the weekends,'' Mr. Woodhams
said. ''It will certainly be very challenging, and potentially it could be
expensive. The $800,000 will cover a lot of the work, but potentially not
everything.''

Get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing
newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/us/politics/donald-trump-hillary-clinton-recou
nt.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A polling place on Nov. 8 in Georgetown, Wis. A recount of the
state's nearly three million votes will probably begin on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY NICKI KOHL/TELEGRAPH HERALD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential candidate, has called for recounts in
Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             294 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wall St. Closes Lower as Consumer Stocks Fall

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 570 words


Stocks on Wall Street pulled back slightly on Monday, retreating from the
records set last week.

Consumer companies and banks took some of the largest losses. Small-company
stocks, which have been outperforming the rest of the market for weeks, gave
back some of their recent gains.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 54.24 points, or 0.3 percent, to
19,097.90. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 11.63 points, or 0.5
percent, to 2,201.72 and the Nasdaq composite lost 30.11 points, or 0.6 percent,
to 5,368.81.

Consumer discretionary stocks were among the hardest hit after the closely
watched post-Thanksgiving sales push.

Amazon, the online retail giant, fell $13.60, or 1.7 percent, to $766.77 after
Citigroup analysts cut their price target on the stock, citing deep discounting
by the retailer to compete during the holiday shopping season. Barnes & Noble
fell 30 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $12.65 on reports the bookseller was also
doing deep discounting to attract customers.

The declines on Monday follow what has been a remarkable rally in November since
Donald J. Trump won the United States presidential election. Investors have made
big bets that Mr. Trump, with a Republican-led Congress, will push to deregulate
energy and banking and cut taxes, which could lead to stronger economic growth.

''The economic and equity market backdrop was already improving before the
election,'' Bob Doll, chief equity strategist at Nuveen Asset Management, wrote
in a note to investors. ''Trump's victory and the Republican sweep provided a
catalyst for investors to ratchet up their optimism.''

The Russell 2000, an index of smaller companies lost, 1.3 percent on Monday,
ending a 15-day winning streak. That was the longest winning streak for the
index in 20 years, which rose roughly 11.6 percent this month alone.

Banks also fell more than the rest of the market, with the financial sector of
the S.&P. 500-stock index falling 1.4 percent. Banks have surged since the
election on speculation that the Trump administration would roll back some
regulations put into place after the financial crisis.

Investors have also pulled out of the bond market, betting that higher economic
growth will also lead to higher inflation, something the United States economy
has had little of since the financial crisis.

Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.31 percent
from 2.36 percent. Bond prices have been falling sharply since the election as
investors anticipated that Mr. Trump's policies could lead to higher economic
growth and higher inflation. The yield on the 10-year note was 1.83 percent the
day before the election.

The price of benchmark oil jumped $1.02, or 2.2 percent, to $47.08 a barrel in
New York ahead of the Wednesday meeting of OPEC, where oil-producing countries
may consider a broad cut in production. Brent crude oil, the international
standard, rose $1, or 2 percent, to $48.24 a barrel in London.

In other energy trading, heating oil rose 4 cents to $1.51 a gallon. Wholesale
gasoline rose 4 cents, to $1.41 a gallon, and natural gas rose 15 cents, to
$3.23 per thousand cubic feet.

The euro edged higher against the dollar, to $1.0597 from $1.0592 on Friday. The
dollar fell to 112.26 Japanese yen from 113.04 yen.

The price of gold rose $12.40, to $1,190.60 an ounce. Silver rose 11 cents, to
$16.58 an ounce, and copper fell 1 cent, to $2.657 a pound.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/business/stock-markets.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A drilling rig in Midland County, Tex., in February. Oil prices
rose ahead of an OPEC meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES DURBIN/MIDLAND
REPORTER-TELEGRAM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute:
Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals on Monday.
(Source: Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             295 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

California Official Says Trump's Claim of Voter Fraud Is 'Absurd'

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 474 words


LOS ANGELES -- When President-elect Donald J. Trump claimed on Twitter that he
was losing the popular vote because of major fraud by millions of voters, one of
the states he pointed to was California, where the latest voting returns showed
Hillary Clinton, the Democrat, crushing Mr. Trump.

But Mr. Trump's baseless claim led to a furious reaction from California's top
election official, Alex Padilla, the secretary of state, this weekend. Mr.
Padilla asserted that there was no evidence for the claim by the
president-elect, and denounced Mr. Trump for what he said was unpresidential
behavior.

''His unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in California and elsewhere are
absurd,'' Mr. Padilla posted on Twitter. ''His reckless tweets are inappropriate
and unbecoming of a president-elect.''

This state has historically been slow to count ballots, a reflection of both its
vast size and inefficiencies in many county voting operations. Given the fact
that this is an overwhelmingly Democratic state, that has meant that Mrs.
Clinton's total vote count has grown steadily as ballots were tallied, adding to
a national lead of close to two million votes.

As of Saturday, Mrs. Clinton had 8.1 million votes in California, compared with
4.2 million for Mr. Trump, according to the secretary of state's office. It was
not clear when the vote count might be concluded.

The count, and outcome, has been no surprise to anyone in a state with a history
of slow vote-counting. Officials in both parties had predicted this would happen
as early as election night.

Given California's long Democratic history, it was never in play during this
presidential election. But as the nation's most populated state, it tends to
have a significant influence on final national voting margins, as is apparently
the case this year.

Mr. Trump signaled out three states in his post of Twitter on ''serious voter
fraud'' -- Virginia, New Hampshire and California. He offered no evidence to
back up the claim.

His remarks came as he denounced calls for a recount in three states that he won
by relatively small margins: Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. Jill Stein,
who was the Green Party candidate for president, said that she would move for a
recount. Aides to Mrs. Clinton said they would cooperate with the effort, even
as they made it clear they thought it would not change the outcome.

Mr. Padilla is the highest-ranking Latino elected to state office in California.
Mr. Trump's poor showing here, many Democrats and Republicans said, came in no
small part because of his attacks on what he described as the threat of illegal
immigration -- particularly by Mexicans. About 40 percent of California's
population is Latino.

''It appears that Mr. Trump is troubled by the fact that a growing majority of
Americans did not vote for him,'' Mr. Padilla said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/us/donald-trump-voter-fraud-california.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             296 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Life in the Center

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 850 words


Over the past few decades, party loyalty has been the defining feature of
national politics. Especially in the House but even in the Senate, members
deferred to their party leaders. Congress as a whole deferred to the presidency.
Members of the president's own party acted as his foot soldiers. Members of the
other party acted as his opposition.

But Donald Trump's victory smashes all that. He is hostile to the Republican
establishment. His proposals cut across orthodox partisan lines.

As Bill Kristol told me, the coming Congress may not look like the recent
Congresses, when party-line voting was the rule. A vote on an infrastructure
bill may look very different from a vote on health care or education or foreign
policy. This may be a Congress with many caucuses -- floating coalitions rather
than just follow-the-leader obedience.

Meanwhile, as Christopher DeMuth wrote recently in The Wall Street Journal,
committee chairmen may reassert authority against the executive branch. Trump's
authoritarian style represents an assault on the traditional separation of
powers. He may end up energizing all those constitutional forms and practices he
stands against.

What's about to happen in Washington may be a little like the end of the Cold
War -- bipolarity gives way to multipolarity. A system dominated by two
party-line powers gives way to a system with a lot of different power centers.
Instead of just R's and D's, there will be a Trump-dominated populist
nationalism, a more libertarian Freedom Caucus, a Bernie Sanders/Elizabeth
Warren progressive caucus, a Chuck Schumer/Nancy Pelosi Democratic old guard.

The most important caucus formation will be in the ideological center. There's a
lot of room between the alt-right and the alt-left, between Trumpian
authoritarianism and Sanders socialism.

Until now, people in that space have been slow to create donor networks, slow to
form think tanks, slow to build coalitions of moderate legislators. But suddenly
there's a flurry of activity between the extremes.

For example, Bill Kristol and Bill Galston have worked in the White Houses of
different parties and had voted for the opposite presidential candidates in
every election for four decades. But Donald Trump has reminded them how much
they agree on the fundamentals.

The two Bills have now issued a joint statement calling for ''a New Center.''
It's a defense of the basic institutions and practices of our constitutional
order, which now seem under assault. It's an attempt to learn from the election
results and craft a governing philosophy that people of different parties can
rally around.

That's in the realm of ideas. In the realm of organization there's also a flurry
of activity. David Burstein's group, Run for America, is recruiting a new
generation of political candidates.

The most active centrist organization, No Labels, began six years ago in
opposition to polarized, cutthroat politics. The problem with the group back
then was that there was no future to a political movement whose first name is
''No.'' You have to be for something.

But under the leadership of its undeterrable co-founder, Nancy Jacobson, No
Labels has evolved. It created a package of reform ideas to make Congress and
the executive branch work together. It created an active congressional caucus,
called the Problem Solvers Caucus, which now has 80 members, divided roughly
evenly between both parties.

It has been building grass-roots activities, which have so far engaged one
million people. It created a ''super PAC'' so that members of Congress who vote
as centrists can get some political protection. It recently published a policy
playbook with 60 proposals to create jobs, reform the tax code, balance the
budget and secure entitlement programs.

Going forward, moderates face four big challenges. First, deepen a positive
national vision that is not merely a positioning between left and right. Second,
elevate a new generation of political leaders so the movement is not just a
retread of retired establishment types.

Third, build a mass movement of actual voters, not just financiers and
think-tank johnnies. Fourth, have the courage to stand together as a swing
legislative caucus, when the pressure from the party leaderships becomes
intense.

It's an uphill climb, but this is a fertile moment. The Trump/Sanders era is
going to create new opposition blocs, filled with people who never thought they
would be working together.

Moreover, the future of this country is not going to be found in protecting jobs
that are long gone or in catering to the fears of aging whites. There is a
raging need for a movement that embraces economic dynamism, global engagement
and social support -- that is part Milton Friedman on economic policy, Ronald
Reagan on foreign policy and Franklin Roosevelt on welfare policy.

The new center will probably start as a legislative caucus with members of both
parties. Where it goes from there is anybody's guess.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/29/opinion/the-future-of-the-american-center.html

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             297 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Potential Agenda for the Supreme Court in the Era of Trump

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK.

Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter @adamliptak.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SIDEBAR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1015 words


WASHINGTON -- A week after the presidential election, the leaders of the
conservative legal movement gathered here for the annual convention of the
Federalist Society. The mood was by turns somber and giddy.

The meeting had been planned as a memorial to the legacy of Justice Antonin
Scalia, who died in February. But the surprise election of Donald J. Trump
energized the affair.

Instead of talk of opportunities lost, the hallways of the Mayflower Hotel
buzzed with ambitious plans. There was general satisfaction with the 21
candidates on Mr. Trump's list of potential Supreme Court nominees, many of whom
were present.

If one of them succeeds Justice Scalia, the Supreme Court will again be
dominated by Republican appointees, though Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, a
moderating force, will retain the decisive vote in most of the closely divided
cases.

Soon, though, given actuarial realities, Justice Kennedy's place at the court's
ideological center could disappear. He is 80. One liberal justice, Ruth Bader
Ginsburg, is 83, and another, Justice Stephen G. Breyer, is 78. Should Mr. Trump
also name a replacement for any of those three, the conservative legal movement
will have captured the Supreme Court.

That reality was lurking in the background when Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. gave
the convention's opening address. Justice Alito is, along with Justice Clarence
Thomas, one of the court's two most conservative members. He is also a fine
lawyer and a savvy strategist, and his talk seemed to set out an agenda for the
Supreme Court in the Trump era.

''I want you to think about some constitutional fault lines,'' he told an
overflowing ballroom, with people standing four deep in the balcony.

''In places in the country where they have those lines,'' he said, ''sometimes
the earth starts to tremor, and people get worried about what's coming.''

He focused on the first two amendments in the Bill of Rights, suggesting that
only conservative resolve could rescue free speech, religious liberty and gun
rights from liberal attempts to undermine them.

His tone was one of embattlement and occasional grievance, and his remarks were
punctuated by wry and rueful humor. He mixed constitutional principle with
cutting comments on the culture wars.

Like Mr. Trump, Justice Alito had little patience with perceived political
correctness. Justice Scalia grew up in Queens, in an ethnically diverse
neighborhood, Justice Alito said, calling it ''a melting pot.''

But, he added, ''I will not say that, because I know that, according to the
powers that be at the University of California's university system, the phrase
'melting pot' is a microaggression.''

He was being sarcastic, and his larger point was that the American left has lost
sight of the value of free speech. He quoted a famous passage from a 1943
opinion from Justice Robert H. Jackson: ''If there is any fixed star in our
constitutional constellation, it is that no official, high or petty, can
prescribe what shall be orthodox in politics, nationalism, religion or other
matters of opinion.''

That opinion, which struck down a law requiring students to recite the Pledge of
Allegiance, was thought to be a liberal free-speech victory. Things have
changed, Justice Alito said, and he seemed to allude to the motto on the hats
Mr. Trump wore on the campaign trail.

''On college campuses, both public and private, a new orthodoxy rules,'' Justice
Alito said. ''Suppose that a student were to test Justice Jackson's proposition
today by wearing an article of attire supporting a political candidate who was
unpopular among the students and professors by proclaiming that the United
States is a great and a good country and by expressing certain traditional
religious beliefs.''

''How would that go over?'' Justice Alito asked.

He said something similar was at work in an effort to overturn the Citizens
United decision -- which allowed unlimited corporate and union spending in
elections -- through a constitutional amendment that would allow the regulation
of such spending, except for spending by media corporations.

''More than 40 senators have proposed an amendment to the First Amendment, which
in itself is an important development,'' Justice Alito said. ''And what would
that amendment do? It would have the effect of granting greater free speech
rights to an elite group, those who control the media, than to everybody else.''

He moved on to another clause of the First Amendment, here invoking Bob Dylan.
''Freedom of religion is in even greater danger,'' Justice Alito said. ''I am
reminded of a song by the latest recipient of the Nobel Prize for Literature:
'It's not dark yet, but it's getting there.'''

Justice Alito said that even conservative victories remained in peril. He paid
tribute to what he called ''perhaps Justice Scalia's most important majority
opinion,'' District of Columbia v. Heller, which in 2008 interpreted the Second
Amendment to guarantee an individual right to own guns. The vote was 5 to 4.

''Heller, as I am sure you know, holds that the Second Amendment actually means
what it says,'' Justice Alito said. But he suggested that the right could easily
be undermined.

''Justice Breyer's dissent provides a road map for denaturing Heller without
actually overruling it,'' Justice Alito said. Justice Breyer had proposed a
balancing test to decide whether gun control laws passed constitutional muster,
one that took account of a right to self-defense on one hand and public safety
on the other.

Justice Alito said balancing tests were a dangerous business.

''As Nino told us more than once,'' Justice Alito said, referring to Justice
Scalia by his nickname, ''if a judge uses a balancing test, then the balance
will almost always come out exactly the way the judge wants it to come out.''

At the conclusion of his survey of constitutional fault lines, Justice Alito
received a thunderous ovation. His audience, invigorated, streamed into the
hallways and got to work.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/28/us/politics/supreme-court-trump-samuel-alito.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. at the Federalist Society's
convention this month in Washington, where his address covered ''constitutional
fault lines'' the country is facing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             298 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

In Paris, Worries That Trump Will Embolden Le Pen

BYLINE: By MIRA KAMDAR

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg.

LENGTH: 704 words


PANTIN, France -- Tourists near the Eiffel Tower were met with an unexpected
sight this month: hundreds of people marching to protest the election of Donald
Trump and condemn the politics of hate and division. The #ParisAgainstTrump
march was organized by a group of Americans in Paris but also drew French
citizens who are worried that Mr. Trump's victory will embolden far-right
politicians in France.

That may already have begun. Marine Le Pen -- the National Front candidate, who
is expected to make it to the final round in French presidential election in the
spring -- congratulated Mr. Trump on Twitter and later said his election was
''good news for our country.''

The French citizens who supported the #ParisAgainstTrump march have many reasons
to disagree. Mikael Zenouda, an activist with Act Up-Paris, said he marched
because he is worried that ''homophobic crimes will increase in France.''
Abdel-Rahmène Azzouzi, who founded the group Je Te Voix, warned, ''Minorities
should not be steppingstones for presidential ambitions.'' The goal of Je Te
Voix, whose name is a pun that means ''I see you'' and ''I call you out,'' is to
bear witness to racist, xenophobic and misogynistic speech by French
presidential hopefuls. Mr. Azzouzi's message to Mr. Trump was: ''Don't mess with
us. We are watching you.''

Adiaratou Diarrassouba, a co-founder of the blog L'Afro, told me: ''The United
States has made real something that could now happen here. We support denouncing
the election of someone who makes racist remarks.'' And Magali Fontaine of Black
Lives Matter France observed: ''When Barack Obama was elected, it was
symbolically very important. Trump's election is also symbolically powerful.''

Stephen Bannon, who will be Mr. Trump's chief White House strategist and is the
former executive chairman of the right-wing Breitbart News Network, has made it
clear that he plans to leverage that symbolic power in France. Back in July, the
French website Radio Londres reported that he said: ''We think France is the
place to be.'' He even said Breitbart was ''looking to open a Breitbart Paris,
even a Breitbart France.'' Days after Mr. Trump's victory, Marion Maréchal-Le
Pen, Marine Le Pen's niece and a rising force in the National Front, tweeted,
''I answer yes to the invitation of Stephen Bannon, CEO of @realDonaldTrump
presidential campaign, to work together.''

The day after the Trump protest, French voters delivered an election surprise of
their own, giving François Fillon a resounding victory in the first round of Les
Républicains' primary. Mr. Fillon had been third in the polls, behind Alain
Juppé, the more moderate front-runner, and former President Nicolas Sarkozy.
Then, on Sunday, in a runoff vote against Mr. Juppé, Mr. Fillon won his party's
nomination with 67 percent of the vote.

Mr. Fillon, a former prime minister, is hardly cut from the same populist cloth
as Ms. Le Pen. But, his victory is not good news for French citizens worried
about a tack to the political right.

In addition to pledging a makeover of France's economy along the lines of what
Margaret Thatcher did in Britain, Mr. Fillon is a staunch social conservative.
His supporters include opponents of France's 2013 ''marriage for all'' law and,
though Mr. Fillon says he won't reverse the law, he promises to move against
adoption by gay couples. Mr. Fillon also believes that France has no reason to
be ashamed of its colonial past -- a time, according to him, when France
generously shared its culture -- and he has scolded immigrants, saying, ''When
you arrive in someone else's house, out of courtesy, you don't make the rules.''
France, Mr. Fillon insists, is not -- and will never be -- multicultural.

With President François Hollande's approval rating down to 4 percent and his
Socialist Party in profound disarray, French voters could be faced with a choice
in the final round of the presidential election between the populist far-right
candidate Marine Le Pen and the establishment right-wing candidate François
Fillon. Either way, French progressives will have plenty to protest.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/29/opinion/in-paris-worries-that-trump-will-embol
den-le-pen.html

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             299 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

White Women Helped Elect Donald Trump

BYLINE: By KATIE ROGERS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Express; Pg.

LENGTH: 505 words


More than half of the white women who voted in the presidential election cast
their ballot for Donald J. Trump, according to exit poll data collected by The
New York Times.

The data indicate how deeply divided Americans are by race and gender: 94
percent of black women who voted and 68 percent of Hispanic or Latino female
voters chose Hillary Clinton, but 53 percent of all white female voters picked
Mr. Trump.

The data can be broken down further: 51 percent of white women with college
degrees voted for Mrs. Clinton, while 62 percent of women without one voted for
Mr. Trump, a reflection of his success with working-class whites.

On Wednesday, women of all races were grappling with the findings.

''Fellow white women, I'm done with you,'' Sarah Ruiz-Grossman wrote in The
Huffington Post.

At Slate, L. V. Anderson suggested that the majority of white women ultimately
supported white supremacy.

''What leads a woman to vote for a man who has made it very clear that he
believes she is subhuman?'' Ms. Anderson wrote. ''Self-loathing. Hypocrisy. And,
of course, a racist view of the world that privileges white supremacy over every
other issue.''

The New York Daily News suggested that America should blame white women for Mrs.
Clinton's stunning loss. (Sixty-three percent of white men voted for Mr. Trump,
with 54 percent with a college degree choosing him, along with 72 percent of
white men without a college degree.)

For women of color, the difference was stark. On Wednesday, many of those women
were hurt, angry and confused.

From all of the Exit Polls I've seen, this one is on white women, who voted
overwhelmingly for Trump. Yes, I'm placing blame. Run up. -- April
(@ReignOfApril) November 9, 2016

People talmbout they want Michelle Obama to run. NOPE. White women didn't even
vote for a woman who looked like them. Leave Michelle alone! -- Awesomely Luvvie
(@Luvvie) November 9, 2016

and white women love proximity to white men's power+hate PoC more than they love
themselves but we knew that https://t.co/EyBfbyEXIr -- Hannah Giorgis
(@ethiopienne) November 9, 2016

White women in every demographic gave the majority of their votes to Trump.
Because #solidarityisforwhitewomen https://t.co/5kEdkHyUZY -- Mikki Kendall
(@Karnythia) November 9, 2016

A week ago, Anne Helen Petersen of BuzzFeed painted a broad portrait of white
women who planned to vote for Mr. Trump.

''The Ivanka Voter is not the stereotypical Trump voter,'' Ms. Petersen wrote.
''She doesn't have a Trump sign in her yard, either because it would get egged
or she doesn't want to fight with the neighbors.''

Maureen Sullivan, a Trump voter who wrote about her decision in The New York
Times on Tuesday, addressed widespread concern among women about Mr. Trump's
attitude toward them: ''Hillary will be bringing Bill Clinton back into the
White House. Everyone should be aware that the former president, who was
impeached, lied about at least one sexual assault and used another woman, an
intern, as a sex toy in the Oval Office.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/01/us/politics/white-women-helped-elect-donald-tr
ump.html

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             300 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Trump Might Do to Address Working-Class Families' Needs

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WORK-LIFE BALANCE; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1499 words


Among the rare areas of agreement in the aftermath of a contentious presidential
election: Families with working parents, especially those with lower incomes,
are having too hard a time.

Many can no longer count on lives that look like the ones their parents led.
High-paying manufacturing jobs have been disappearing, especially for men. Fewer
people are marrying, and more children are growing up in unstable families.
Parents are struggling to work while raising children.

President-elect Donald J. Trump vowed to help the working class, and blue-collar
whites in particular helped propel him to victory. Although quite a few
economists disagree with him on the merits of his prescriptions, he has said
cutting taxes, restricting immigration and renegotiating trade deals will
ultimately raise incomes of struggling families.

Mr. Trump has said he understands the needs of working parents. ''These
solutions must update laws passed more than half a century ago when most women
were still not in the labor force,'' he said in September in a speech unveiling
his child care proposals.

His daughter Ivanka has pushed ideas like paid leave and seems to be taking a
role in devising new policies. In a statement last week, she said she was
distancing herself from certain aspects of her company in order to ''broaden her
efforts to take a stance on issues of critical importance to American women and
families.''

Which policies will Mr. Trump pursue to directly address the needs of working
and working-class families? A look at what he has said -- along with the wish
lists of Republicans in Congress, scholars and advisers -- provides some clues.

Paid Maternity Leave

A striking thing happened during the campaign: For the first time, both
Republican and Democratic candidates made paid family leave a part of their
policy agenda. As recently as 2014, Hillary Clinton said of paid leave, ''I
don't think, politically, we could get it now.'' Now it could find bipartisan
support.

Mr. Trump has proposed six weeks of paid maternity leave, which he said would
offer ''a crucial safety net for working mothers.'' Currently, 87 percent of
workers get no paid family leave, and 95 percent of those in the lowest quarter
of earners get none, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Most Americans support a paid leave policy. It can ease the burdens on families
with two working parents and increase the likelihood that parents stay in the
labor force. Still, the details could prove contentious. Should fathers also get
leave, or just mothers? What about gay or adoptive parents, and people who need
to care for sick children or aging relatives? And how should it be paid for?

Mr. Trump's proposal would apply only to new mothers, and he said he would pay
for it with savings from reducing unemployment insurance fraud, though it's
unclear how that would work.

The Family Act, a Democrat-sponsored bill stalled in Congress, proposes paying
for it with a small increase in payroll taxes. Republicans have previously
proposed giving businesses a tax credit for providing paid leave, but making it
voluntary.

''If he structures it in a way that it's not a burden on businesses and does not
work against women's work force participation, I think more Republicans will get
behind it,'' said Aparna Mathur, a resident scholar in economic policy at the
American Enterprise Institute.

Democrats have argued that by limiting parental leave to new mothers, Mr. Trump
ignores the role fathers play in raising children, exposes women to
discrimination in hiring and neglects the needs of people with ailing or elderly
family members.

''It was fantastic to see the Republicans stepping up and having this debate,''
said Heather Boushey, the executive director of the Washington Center for
Equitable Growth, who was the chief economist for Hillary Clinton's transition
team. ''It really spoke to how important these issues are in terms of economic
policy. But I hope that the actual policies are really grounded more in the
evidence of what works than what he's put out so far.''

Another policy that analysts say is important to working-class families is paid
sick leave, so that workers can care for themselves or for ill family members.
It's unclear whether Mr. Trump will push for it. Thirty-five percent of workers
over all and 66 percent of those in the bottom quartile of income get no paid
sick leave. Some Republicans have instead proposed letting certain workers --
those in the private sector who are not exempt from overtime laws -- substitute
time off for overtime pay.

Child Care

Another Democratic dream that Mr. Trump raised on the campaign trail was
financial help for child care.

''For many families in our country, child care is now the single largest
expense, even more than housing, yet very little meaningful policy work has been
done in this area,'' he said in September.

His proposal would allow parents earning less than $250,000 individually or
$500,000 jointly to deduct the average cost of child and elder care from their
income taxes. In a nod to social conservatives, he said parents who stayed home
with children would also get the child care tax deduction.

''The idea here is letting the family choose how the money is spent,'' said
Bradford Wilcox, director of the national marriage project at the University of
Virginia.

For low-income families, Mr. Trump proposed child care spending rebates as part
of the earned-income tax credit. He also said he would make pretax dependent
care savings accounts available to everyone, not just people whose employers
offer them, and give tax deductions to employers that offer on-site child care.

Democrats have favored refundable tax credits over deductions because they say
they are more helpful to lower-income families, who might not make enough to pay
income taxes. Also, credits directly reduce someone's tax bill, while deductions
reduce taxable income but not necessarily the final bill.

Democrats see the ultimate goal as high-quality, universal care for young
children. There seems to be bipartisan support for a small step in that
direction.

''What we've got there is a tremendous amount of support from women --
Democrats, Republicans, independents -- to move forward,'' said Representative
Marsha Blackburn, a Republican from Tennessee.

Apprenticeships

Mr. Trump has pledged to create 25 million jobs over the next decade. Analysts
and policy makers on both sides of the aisle say one route toward that goal is
apprenticeships.

They are viewed as a way for people to acquire vocational skills while earning
money, as opposed to attending college and building up debt. Not only would they
address unemployment among people without college degrees, advocates say, but
they could also lead to more stable families.

The unemployment of working-class men has been a prime reason for the decline in
marriage and rise in single motherhood, researchers have found. When job
opportunities are plentiful, people are more likely to marry before having their
first child, Andrew Cherlin, a professor of public policy at Johns Hopkins,
found in a study published in August in the American Sociological Review.

''It's likely if we can improve the job picture for working-class young adults,
they'd have family lives that are more stable,'' he said.

The construction industry already uses apprentices, so perhaps Mr. Trump is
familiar with their benefits, said Robert I. Lerman, a fellow at the Urban
Institute. They would be possible in a range of fast-growing industries, like
health care and information technology, he said, and in white-collar jobs like
hotel management. They could also be useful in putting people to work building
the new infrastructure that Mr. Trump has promised.

''People want to have earnings, they want to have dignity, they want to show
that they've been able to master a certain profession, and that gives them a
kind of identity,'' Mr. Lerman said. ''It has both a social as well as an
economic dimension.''

Though the idea has received bipartisan support, some Republicans have resisted
registered apprenticeships, which are overseen by the Labor Department, because
of their association with unions. Some Democrats have questioned whether
apprenticeships lead to a two-tier wage system, and have focused instead on
making college accessible to more people.

Policy makers and researchers have a long list of other policy ideas for Mr.
Trump that they believe could help blue-collar families. Some have historically
appealed to Republicans, like those that encourage marriage. Others, like
mandating predictable work schedules for hourly workers, have been promoted by
Democrats.

With both parties fighting even more for the allegiance of the working class,
there actually might be some movement on some or all of these issues.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/29/upshot/what-donald-trump-might-do-for-working-
class-families.html

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pushing a stroller in New York. Many parents are struggling to
work while raising children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN THOMAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             301 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Stage Not Yet Set, the Drama Has Begun

BYLINE: By ALEXANDER BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1309 words


It began at dawn, with a Twitter post about flag-burning.

In a period of just over 24 hours, stretching from the early hours of Tuesday
into Wednesday morning, President-elect Donald J. Trump raced through perhaps
the most frenetic day of activity since the election. With a series of surprise
announcements and impulsive public gestures, he brought into sharp focus the
freewheeling and compulsively theatrical style he will bring to the Oval Office.

There was the incendiary pronouncement about the flag: After Fox News aired a
segment about protests that included flag-burning, Mr. Trump suggested stripping
people who burned the flag of their citizenship, even though the act is
constitutionally protected free speech.

There were hazy but headline-grabbing statements of policy: Mr. Trump announced
a tentative pact with the air-conditioning company Carrier to protect some jobs
at an Indiana factory, and pledged again to sever ties with his real estate
empire, without offering specifics.

There was a new and indiscreet round of tryouts for secretary of state,
featuring reviews from the president-elect in something like real time. Having
paraded David H. Petraeus, the former military commander and C.I.A. director,
past a throng of reporters for a meeting on Monday, Mr. Trump dined on Tuesday
with Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential nominee in 2012 and another
candidate for the job.

They huddled at a French restaurant on Central Park West in Manhattan, briefly
admitting the news media to take photographs of the smiling pair over scallops.

On display, if not on the menu, was government à la Trump.

While Mr. Trump's focus appeared to careen unpredictably from hour to hour, the
larger pattern he followed was a familiar one. As a candidate, Mr. Trump
operated largely on gut instinct, with publicity-seeking provocation as his
chief tactic. Trusting few people outside a circle of intimates, Mr. Trump
thrived in a daily cycle of controversy and cultivated an atmosphere of
often-public drama and division within his campaign.

Much as he did during the campaign, Mr. Trump has kept the political world
hanging on his every move, no matter how impetuous or trivial. He has aired his
partial or fleeting thoughts, toying with the idea of making Rudolph W. Giuliani
his secretary of state before appearing to lose interest. He has tolerated and
even welcomed unsubtle combat over his selections, allowing a senior adviser,
Kellyanne Conway, to roundly attack Mr. Romney on television while he remains a
top contender for the cabinet.

When Mr. Trump has incited controversy -- with his flag-burning Twitter post, or
an earlier allegation of mass voter fraud -- Mr. Trump has declined to elaborate
or justify his claims, and has left aides struggling to defend them, when they
have tried at all.

Mr. Trump's method, friends and allies say, matches the reputation he built
first in New York and then on reality television -- less as a traditional
corporate executive, like Mr. Romney, than as an eager impresario who
experimented freely, welcomed conflict and flopped repeatedly.

Newt Gingrich, a former speaker of the House who has advised Mr. Trump, said Mr.
Trump's transition process ''very much resembles the way he operated in 'The
Apprentice,''' the NBC show in which Mr. Trump functioned as an imposing
protagonist subjecting aspiring entrepreneurs to contests of business acumen.

Mr. Gingrich said Mr. Trump plainly relished personal contact with possible
appointees and favored a free-form leadership style. Mr. Trump did not emerge,
Mr. Gingrich said, from a ''corporate, staffed background,'' but from a more
personality-driven, improvisational environment.

''In a lot of ways, what you're seeing is the continuation of techniques and
lessons he learned from doing what was, at one time, the No. 1 TV show,'' Mr.
Gingrich said.

For longtime critics of Mr. Trump, the spectacle of his transition has come as a
kind of nightmarish vindication, seeming to confirm their warnings about what it
would mean to have a reality television star in the nation's most powerful
office.

Mr. Trump's rivals in the Republican primary campaign often criticized him as a
showman and not a real executive. At a Washington dinner in 2011, President
Obama ridiculed the notion that Mr. Trump could run for president, recounting an
episode of ''The Celebrity Apprentice'' in which Mr. Trump fired the actor Gary
Busey and joking, ''These are the kind of decisions that would keep me up at
night.''

Jon Lovett, a former speechwriter for Mr. Obama who was an author of his speech
belittling Mr. Trump, described a sense of horror at seeing the joke turn into
reality.

''It is extremely chilling that Donald Trump views the spectacle of choosing
cabinet appointments in a way that is similar to deciding whether or not to fire
Lil Jon or Joan Rivers,'' Mr. Lovett said, referring to contestants on the show.

It would be difficult to overstate the extremity of Mr. Trump's departure from
recent presidential practice. His immediate predecessors prided themselves on
orderly, fastidious deliberations: George W. Bush as the first president with a
business degree, Mr. Obama as a candidate branded by aides as ''no drama
Obama.''

Even Republicans concede that it is not clear how Mr. Trump's roller-coaster
approach to the transition will carry over to governing. Mr. Gingrich predicted
during the Republican primary contests that a Trump administration would
function as a kind of daily adventure. ''If Trump does end up winning, you will
have no idea each morning what's going to happen,'' he said in a January
interview, ''because he will have no idea.''

But enacting sweeping changes or passing even modest legislation requires
intensive, sustained attention from presidents and their teams, of a kind Mr.
Trump has never dedicated to matters of policy.

Since the election, Mr. Trump has made only a few one-off announcements aimed at
soothing controversy or bolstering his popularity, like the Carrier deal or his
pledge to preserve elements of the Affordable Care Act. But he has not situated
any of his pronouncements within a larger, cohesive agenda, or answered even
basic questions about them, like whether the terms extended to Carrier should be
made available to other companies.

Mr. Trump has appeared comparatively uninterested in a set of lower-profile
appointments in which his close advisers, like Mike Pence, the vice
president-elect, and Reince Priebus, the incoming White House chief of staff,
have quietly installed Republican stalwarts.

On Tuesday, after Mr. Trump raged on Twitter about flag-burning, his transition
team announced the selection of Elaine L. Chao, a former labor secretary, to
lead the Department of Transportation, and Representative Tom Price of Georgia,
a conservative hard-liner, as Mr. Trump's choice for health secretary.

On Twitter, Mr. Trump made only one perfunctory mention each of Ms. Chao and Mr.
Price, the man who would most likely be tasked with carrying out some of the
president-elect's most important campaign promises. By comparison, on Monday and
Tuesday, Mr. Trump posted on Twitter twice about the Carrier deal and five times
to criticize CNN for its coverage of him.

Michael O. Leavitt, a former governor of Utah who prepared Mr. Romney's
transition team before the 2012 election, said a presidential transition usually
''takes on the personality of the principal.'' Mr. Trump, he said, was taking an
exceptionally public approach and showing far less regard than usual for the
privacy of job candidates.

''This is Donald Trump doing it his way, and no one should expect any
different,'' Mr. Leavitt said. ''That doesn't mean it's right or wrong -- it's
just Trump.''

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/30/us/politics/donald-trump-white-house-cabinet.h
tml

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President-elect Donald J. Trump dined Tuesday in New York with
his adviser Reince Priebus, above left, and Mitt Romney, a candidate for
secretary of state. Left, a lectern at Trump Tower. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HODGSON
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             302 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Recount Bids in Three States Seem Like the Longest of Long Shots

BYLINE: By STEVE EDER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1007 words


It has been nearly a month since Donald J. Trump beat Hillary Clinton to win the
presidency. But efforts continue in three battleground states to take another
look at the election results.

On Thursday, Wisconsin is set to begin the labor-intensive task of reviewing
nearly three million ballots in a recount across all of the state's 72 counties.
Michigan is likely to follow suit starting on Friday. And in Pennsylvania, there
are persisting legal challenges to the presidential results as well.

It is extremely unlikely that this attempt -- spearheaded by Jill Stein, the
Green Party presidential candidate -- will prompt any of these states to flip to
Mrs. Clinton, as Mr. Trump leads by a combined margin of around 100,000 votes.
Mrs. Clinton would need to be declared the winner in all three states to reverse
the Electoral College outcome.

In addition to Ms. Stein's concerns about vote tampering or hacking, Mr. Trump
has levied a baseless claim that he would have won the popular vote had it not
been for millions of illegal voters.

Nevertheless, the multistate endeavor is slated to begin Thursday. Despite the
attention it will receive, it figures to be a far cry from the drama that
gripped the nation during the Florida recount in 2000.

Here are some key questions and answers about how it might play out:

Why are the recounts such a long shot?

While Mr. Trump's lead in each of the three states is narrow -- he is ahead by
22,177 votes in Wisconsin, 70,638 in Pennsylvania and 10,704 in Michigan -- the
margins seem too large for Mrs. Clinton to overcome. A campaign lawyer for Mrs.
Clinton, Marc Elias, noted that those gaps would exceed ''the largest margin
ever overcome in a recount.''

Experts believe it would require the discovery of widespread tampering or
hacking of voting systems to move such a large number of votes, and there is no
evidence that either has occurred.

What are the possible outcomes, and who decides?

It is possible the recounts will result in a change in the totals, but it is
highly unlikely that enough votes will move to displace Mr. Trump. The states
are operating under a tight schedule, as they need to certify their results
several days before the Electoral College meets on Dec. 19. If the recounts
reveal significant disparities, they could be contested in court.

How will the recount work in Wisconsin?

County clerks and canvass workers were set to be briefed on Wednesday about
recount procedures, a detailed process that includes either a review of votes by
hand or the retabulating of ballots.

The Stein campaign went to court to demand a full statewide hand recount, which
was rejected, so local elections officials will be able to decide how to review
votes. The updated tallies must be submitted to the state elections commission
by Dec. 12, with certification the next day.

Is it the same in Michigan?

The process is similar in Michigan. Ms. Stein officially requested the recount
on Wednesday, setting in motion the process to begin Friday. In Michigan,
another candidate -- such as Mr. Trump -- could object to the recount by
appealing to the Board of State Canvassers. Michigan Republicans have blasted
the recount talk, given that there is no evidence of fraud or malfeasance.

Like Wisconsin, Michigan would have less than two weeks to certify the results
of its recount.

Why does Pennsylvania seem to be lagging behind?

Ms. Stein is also seeking another look at ballots in Pennsylvania, which allows
voters to petition their local precincts for recounts. But the Pennsylvania
State Department has said many of the deadlines to file petitions have passed.

Who is paying for all of this?

Recounts are expensive because of the staffing needed, and the condensed time
frame that will require work on nights and weekends. Ms. Stein's campaign
created a website to raise money for the cause. As of Wednesday afternoon, she
had raised $6.6 million. Originally, the fund-raising goal to cover the costs in
the three states was $7 million, but it was increased to $9.5 million after cost
estimates in Wisconsin were $2.5 million above earlier projections.

Ms. Stein's campaign paid the state of Michigan $973,250 on Wednesday, but Ruth
Johnson, Michigan's secretary of state, said taxpayers could end up footing up
to $4 million in additional costs.

Ms. Stein has said the money raised for the recount is kept separate from her
campaign accounts, and that any surplus funds would be used for ''election
integrity efforts and to promote voting system reform.''

Why is Ms. Stein the champion of the recount effort?

Ms. Stein finished a distant fourth in the popular vote on Nov. 8, but with her
recount challenge she has taken on a more prominent role in the election's
aftermath. She says she is pushing for a more ''transparent and accountable
vote.''

What role, if any, is Mrs. Clinton playing?

The Clinton campaign has taken a more passive approach. It has said it would
join in the recount pushed by Ms. Stein and pay for its lawyers to be present at
recount sites, but it is not contributing money for the recounts.

When the Stein campaign sued for the hand recount in Wisconsin, lawyers for Mrs.
Clinton intervened, seeking to join the suit. But her campaign has been largely
quiet, aside from a lawyer explaining in a post online that they would
''participate'' in a way to encourage fairness.

How is Mr. Trump involved?

A spokesman for Mr. Trump, Jason Miller, said this week that the campaign would
''continue to do our due diligence and monitor the situation, but again, there's
no chance that anything changes after this fraudulent recount effort has
concluded,'' noting that Mrs. Clinton had conceded.

As for Mr. Trump himself, he has gone on Twitter to raise his own concerns about
the vote, but has called the recount efforts a ''scam'' by the Green Party and
also chastised the Clinton campaign for joining. ''Nothing will change,'' he
said.

Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the
Morning Briefing newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/30/us/elections/recount-bids-in-3-states-seem-the
-longest-of-long-shots.html

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jill Stein, who was the Green Party nominee, has called for a
recount of presidential votes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMIR KALIFA FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             303 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrats Claim to Win Senate Seat on Long Island, but G.O.P. Disagrees

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1080 words


Painstaking vote counts. Talk of possible fraud. Suggestions of racism and
ageism, and disparaging comments about people with disabilities. And none of it
had anything to do with Donald J. Trump.

With the presidential election fast receding into the past, there was still
campaign drama unfolding on Wednesday on the South Shore of Long Island, where
the race for New York State Senate's Eighth District has been contested with the
ardor and election board intrigue of the Bush-Gore contest in Florida in 2000.

The race pitted the incumbent, Michael Venditto, a first-term Republican with
some family political baggage, against John E. Brooks, a former insurance
executive who now seems tantalizingly close to capturing a seat that few
Democrats thought was winnable until recently.

By late Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Brooks -- a longtime Republican running as a
Democrat -- had declared victory after a count of absentee and affidavit
ballots. With more than 130,000 votes now recorded, Mr. Brooks had a razor-thin
lead of 41 votes, according to David J. Gugerty, the Democratic commissioner of
elections in Nassau County, which makes up the bulk of the district.

Mr. Brooks issued a statement announcing himself ''humbled and honored,'' though
state Republican officials did not concede, noting that the validity of 1,000 or
so uncounted ballots was being challenged by both sides.

''There are still more than a thousand ballots to be examined beginning next
week under the supervision of a judge,'' Scott Reif, a spokesman for the Senate
Republicans, said. ''Despite an effort by the Democrats to shut this down
prematurely, this race is far from over.''

Still, Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, who leads the Senate Democrats, was
confident enough that Mr. Brooks had won to call on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a
Democrat, ''to step up and unify the members of his party.''

With a victory, Democrats would have a numeric majority in the 63-seat Senate,
though Republicans, led by John J. Flanagan of Long Island, have been clinging
to power by dint of the continuing defection of Simcha Felder, a Democrat from
Brooklyn who sits and votes with the Republicans.

''Once again, a majority of our state senators in New York are Democrats, and
for some reason there is the mind-boggling question about who controls the
Senate,'' Ms. Stewart-Cousins said. ''At this critical juncture in our nation's
history, it is more important than ever that Democrats stick together to hold
the line against expected draconian efforts out of Washington to roll back and
prevent progressive achievements.''

Ms. Stewart-Cousins's remarks were echoed by good government and liberal groups,
including the Working Families Party, which has had a fraught relationship with
the governor. Bill Lipton, the party's state director, said that Mr. Cuomo
should take the lead in turning the Senate Democratic and in offering ''a clear
progressive alternative.''

''If the governor wants to help lead the national opposition to Trump,'' Mr.
Lipton said, ''he can start in his own backyard.''

Mr. Cuomo's office said on Wednesday that it was monitoring the vote count in
the Eighth District.

The state Republicans cheered when Mr. Venditto jumped to an early lead of some
400 votes as the count began. In recent days, however, ballots have been counted
in more heavily Democratic areas, giving Mr. Brooks's an advantage.

The counting has also led to some unsavory accusations on both sides. Mr. Reif,
the Senate Republican spokesman, said on Wednesday that Democratic lawyers
monitoring the count at the Nassau County Board of Elections were discriminating
against older, infirm Republicans by challenging their ballots.

''Democrats are objecting to permanently disabled elderly Republican voters,
claiming their signatures don't match what is in the books,'' Mr. Reif said.
''This is a new low.''

Democrats denied that claim, and leveled an accusation of their own: that
lawyers working on behalf of Mr. Venditto had been purposely challenging ballots
coming out of heavily black and Latino parts of the district, owing to those
groups' traditional support of Democratic candidates.

Mike Murphy, a Democratic spokesman, said the objections were ''for almost no
reason, except that they are in minority areas.'' About two-thirds of the
objections came from Republicans, suggesting that Democrats were more confident
about their chances of maintaining a lead in the race.

''Our objections are legitimate and real,'' Mr. Reif said, ''and are of much
higher quality than the Democrats.''

Despite such disputes, the impact of a win for Mr. Brooks was unclear, in large
part because of Mr. Felder, who represents a district that is heavily Orthodox
Jewish and who confirmed last week that he would continue to conference with the
Republicans.

Also complicating the math is the seven-member Independent Democratic
Conference, led by Senator Jeffrey D. Klein of the Bronx and Westchester County,
who has been working in what he calls a ''bipartisan coalition'' with
Republicans for the past four years. That coalition has repeatedly said it would
remain separate from the rest of the elected Democratic senators led by Ms.
Stewart-Cousins, who were disappointed by their performance in November.

With Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential candidate, winning the state
easily, Ms. Stewart-Cousins and others in her party had hoped to win enough
seats to secure a solid Senate majority. (The State Assembly is dominated by
Democrats.) But New York Republicans, who saw Mr. Trump win handily in rural and
some suburban areas, actually gained a seat, winning in Buffalo.

The race in the Eighth District was an outlier: It had long been thought to be a
lock for Mr. Venditto, as the district has typically voted Republican. But in
October, Mr. Venditto's father, John, the town supervisor of Oyster Bay, was
arrested on federal corruption charges that also swept up a fellow Republican,
Edward P. Mangano, the Nassau County executive.

Jay Jacobs, the Nassau County Democratic chairman, said he was confident that
Mr. Brooks had enough votes to clinch the Eighth District seat, despite pending
challenges, including 727 from Republicans and 346 from Democrats.

''Right now our team is projecting a Brooks win by more than 300,'' Mr. Jacobs
said. ''Then again, we projected helping Hillary out on her transition.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/30/nyregion/democrats-claim-to-win-senate-seat-on
-long-island-but-gop-disagrees.html

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: State Senator Michael Venditto, far left, a Republican, has not
conceded to John Brooks, a Democrat, who held a 41-vote lead on Wednesday.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JAMES ESCHER/NEWSDAY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             304 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Steven Mnuchin Is More Pragmatist Than Ideologue

BYLINE: By GINA CHON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 381 words


President-elect Donald J. Trump has made an illogically logical choice for his
Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin.

Mr. Mnuchin's Wall Street past will rankle Democrats. But unlike many people
whom Mr. Trump has put on his team, he is neither an ideologue nor a populist.
He is also well qualified for the job, bipartisan and relatively reserved.

Mr. Mnuchin's career as a financier will not make for a smooth ride though
confirmation hearings. He spent 17 years at Goldman Sachs, working in mortgage
securities before becoming chief information officer. He left in 2002 to set up
his own hedge fund, Dune Capital, which helped finance hit movies like
''Avatar.'' And he and fellow investors made a 150 percent profit in five years
turning around the defunct mortgage lender IndyMac Bank, which they bought in
2009 and renamed OneWest Bank.

Lobbying groups are already coming out against his nomination, in part because
of accusations that OneWest Bank's foreclosure policies were too aggressive.
People ''should be terrified by the prospect of a Treasury Secretary Mnuchin,''
the Take on Wall Street campaign said on Tuesday.

Republicans, though, have the majority needed to confirm him. He is not a
Republican through and through. He has given money multiple times to Senator
Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, who will be the next Senate leader for the
Democrats. He donated to President Obama's first presidential campaign and
raised money this year for Kamala Harris, a Democrat who won a California Senate
seat in this month's election.

He even recently floated the idea of creating an infrastructure bank, a plan
pitched earlier by Hillary Clinton. That suggests a more pragmatic approach to
the job than, say the attorney general nominee, Jeff Sessions, or the health and
human services appointee, Tom Price.

Such an approach could help him balance competing views while pushing for some
of Mr. Trump's major first-year goals, like a tax code overhaul, infrastructure
spending and a government budget that could substantially increase the national
debt.

In a rare quality for Washington insiders, Mr. Mnuchin also does not seek the
limelight, which could appeal to lawmakers who are eager to take credit for
policy victories. It all bodes well for America's fiscal policy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/30/business/dealbook/steven-mnuchin-is-more-pragm
atist-than-ideologue.html

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             305 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Board Fines Weiner $65,000 for '13 Campaign Violations

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 661 words


The news keeps getting worse for Anthony D. Weiner.

Mr. Weiner, the disgraced former congressman whose lewd text message exchanges
with a teenager spurred new federal scrutiny of Hillary Clinton's emails in the
final days of the presidential campaign, was fined $65,000 on Thursday by New
York City's Campaign Finance Board for violations during his failed bid for
mayor in 2013.

Mr. Weiner's campaign, which raised and spent millions stretching back to the
2009 race when he first made a run for mayor, is also required to return its
remaining balance of $195,000, which the board said was unspent public matching
funds.

Among the violations committed by Mr. Weiner's campaign, according to the board:
using campaign funds to pay for two cellphones, including the personal phone
used by Mr. Weiner from May to September 2013, the height of his Democratic
primary campaign.

It was during that period that new revelations of sexually explicit text
messages and photographs, sent to women after he had left Congress, came to
light and derailed Mr. Weiner's bid for mayor, which had been gaining momentum
-- partially based on the notion that he had moved beyond his lewd messaging.

It was not clear if Mr. Weiner, a Democrat, sent any such messages from either
of the phones that were paid for with campaign funds.

The board, which oversees the city's strict campaign finance system and the
payment of public matching funds, conducts routine audits of all candidates
after elections. Mr. Weiner received more than $1.6 million in public funding
for his campaign, which is given to candidates in proportion to the funds they
raise themselves. Only the first $175 from a contributor is matched, at a
six-to-one ratio.

The board also cited a range of infractions by Mr. Weiner's campaign, including
late filings, contributions over the city's campaign finance limits, and
spending that could not be shown to be related to the campaign. Each violation
carried an individual fine ranging from $200 to $27,724, the latter for
postelection spending that the board said had not been adequately documented.

Mr. Weiner's campaign can appeal the fines -- which the former congressman must
pay out of his own pocket, or raise money to do so -- in court, though it has
not yet moved to do so. A spokeswoman for the campaign declined to comment.

The fine is the latest blow to Mr. Weiner, whose marriage to Huma Abedin, a top
aide to Mrs. Clinton, fell apart after new suggestive messages surfaced in
August, including one with an image of Mr. Weiner's crotch as he lay next to the
couple's 4-year-old son. He faced harsh criticism from Democrats in October
after revelations that a federal criminal investigation into his texting
extended to a computer used by Ms. Abedin that contained emails sent to or from
Mrs. Clinton's private email server.

The director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, James B. Comey, alerted
Congress to the inquiry in the waning days of the presidential campaign before
following up two days before the election to say the information on the computer
warranted no new action against Mrs. Clinton.

The city's Campaign Finance Board has still not finished its audits of several
other major 2013 mayoral candidates, including William C. Thompson Jr.,
Christine C. Quinn and Mayor Bill de Blasio.

But it levied $34,000 in fines in September against another candidate, George T.
McDonald, an advocate for the homeless who ran as a Republican, mostly for
accepting over-the-limit contributions. Mr. McDonald railed at the board during
its meeting that month, arguing that the system ensured that only the rich or
career politicians run for public office.

''You look at America, nobody votes!'' Mr. McDonald said. ''I didn't come here
to beg for your mercy, O.K. I came here to give you the facts. I gave you the
facts. You're going to fine us anyway. So what the hell -- what are we doing
here?''

A minute later, he walked out of the meeting.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/01/nyregion/anthony-weiner-fined-65000-for-campai
gn-finance-violations.html

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anthony Weiner's campaign must also return $195,000. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             306 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Measured Speech, Putin Calls for 'Mutually Beneficial' Ties With U.S.

BYLINE: By ANDREW HIGGINS; Sophia Kishkovsky and Oleg Matsnev contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1240 words


MOSCOW -- After the outpouring of euphoria among Russia's political elite over
the victory of Donald J. Trump, President Vladimir V. Putin on Thursday gave a
more measured response in his annual address to the nation, calling for
cooperation but expressing misgivings over some of Mr. Trump's statements about
nuclear weapons.

The Russian leader appeared remarkably subdued at what was widely seen as a
moment of triumph for him, with his popularity rising on a cresting wave of
anti-establishment and often pro-Russian populism in Europe and America.

Speaking to an audience of political and economic barons in the ornate St.
George's Hall of the Great Kremlin Palace, Mr. Putin praised his compatriots for
rallying around ''patriotic values'' and, counterintuitively, for eschewing the
lure of populism.

He lamented that around the world, ''even in the most seemingly affluent
countries and stable regions, more and more fractures and conflicts on
political, ethnic, religious and social grounds are rising.''

Those remarks had to surprise Western officials who have frequently accused the
Kremlin of stirring up and supporting precisely those anti-establishment forces
so as to sow disorder and weaken liberal democracies. Germany's foreign
intelligence chief, Bruno Kahl, warned in an interview published on Tuesday that
Russia, seeking to create ''political uncertainty,'' was bombarding his country
with disinformation before elections next year.

Mr. Putin did not mention Mr. Trump by name, saying only that Russia wanted to
work with the incoming administration ''to normalize and begin to develop
bilateral relations on an equal and mutually beneficial basis.''

His comments largely reprised the message he gave Mr. Trump in a telephone call
soon after the Nov. 8 election, when both men agreed that something needed to be
done to improve ''the absolutely unsatisfactory state of bilateral relations.''

In a departure from his speeches in recent years, Mr. Putin avoided sarcastic or
downright angry comments about the United States. But he also made clear that
Russia demanded to be treated as a global power, not the ''regional power'' that
Mr. Obama described it as in 2014, infuriating Moscow.

''We have a joint responsibility for the provision of international security and
stability, for the strengthening of anti-proliferation regimes,'' Mr. Putin
said, referring to efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.

During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump suggested that more countries should
acquire nuclear weapons so that they can defend themselves without Washington's
help. He also threatened to dismantle the international agreement that limits
Iran's nuclear program.

In another apparent reference to Mr. Trump's campaign statements on nuclear
weapons policy, which included assertions that the American arsenal had ''fallen
way behind'' Russia's and needed to catch up, Mr. Putin warned against any
attempt by Washington to disrupt what he called the balance of nuclear firepower
between the two countries.

''I would like to emphasize that attempts to break strategic parity are
extremely dangerous and can lead to a global catastrophe,'' Mr. Putin said.
''This must not be forgotten for a single second.''

Mr. Putin's mixing of pointed reminders of Russia's status as a nuclear power
with a measured expression of hope for an end to the current deep chill in
relations with Washington contrasted sharply with the unalloyed glee expressed
by many Russian politicians and commentators after Mr. Trump's election victory.
In the run-up to the election, state-controlled news outlets cast Hillary
Clinton as a Russophobic hawk and warmonger while Mr. Trump was presented as the
candidate who would bring a new and sunny dawn to relations between Washington
and Moscow.

Syria and the importance of fighting Islamic extremism are areas in which Mr.
Putin's interests and Mr. Trump's statements seem to coincide. Mr. Putin, who
has repeatedly accused the Obama administration of mollycoddling extremists,
said the United States needed to focus on ''a real rather than dreamt-up
threat'' and join Russia in fighting international terrorism.

The ''dreamt-up'' threat seemed to refer to fear in Washington and many European
capitals that Russia has become a menace to security since it seized Crimea from
Ukraine in 2014 and supported pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine.

Ignoring American efforts to destroy the Islamic State, Mr. Putin said the
problem of international terrorism ''is being solved by our servicemen in
Syria,'' where Russian warplanes have helped President Bashar al-Assad regain
control of large sections of Aleppo, once Syria's biggest city, from rebels,
some of whom are supported by the United States.

A new foreign policy doctrine signed by Mr. Putin on Thursday underscored the
problems with Russia's relations with the West and set a high bar for any swift
easing of tensions. The doctrine, a summary of how Moscow sees the world and
what it wants, stressed the gravity of ''the serious crisis between Russia and
the West'' and blamed this on ''geopolitical expansion'' by NATO and the
European Union. It said Russia and the United States could work together only on
the basis of ''equality, mutual respect for interests and noninterference in the
internal affairs of each other.''

Insisting that Russia does ''not accept any attempts to organize pressure,
either military, political, economic or of any other kind,'' the policy doctrine
said Moscow ''reserves the right to react hard to unfriendly actions, including
through the strengthening of national defense and the taking of reciprocal or
asymmetrical measures.''

Most of Mr. Putin's hourlong speech, however, was devoted to domestic issues,
not foreign relations. He acknowledged that two years of economic decline had
brought great hardship but insisted this had only made the country stronger, and
he focused on sectors of the economy that he said have done well, like
agriculture and high-tech.

While proposing no significant reforms to revive Russia's sluggish economy --
which shrank by 3.7 percent last year and has contracted further this year,
though at a much slower pace -- Mr. Putin said he had ordered the government to
work out a ''substantive action plan'' to ensure that Russia achieves higher
growth rates than elsewhere by 2020 and elevates its position in the global
economy.

Russia's economy ranks around 13th in the world, on the basis of its gross
domestic product, behind countries like Australia, Canada and South Korea

What shape such an economic development plan might take has been the object of
bitter feuding between more liberal members of the government, who favor
privatization, and those who want the state to keep control of crucial
industries. The liberal camp suffered a major setback earlier this month with
the late-night arrest on murky corruption charges of one of the country's main
economic policy makers, Aleksei Ulyukaev, a liberal stalwart who had served
until his arrest as minister of economic development.

Mr. Putin said parliamentary elections in Russia in September, which delivered a
resounding victory to his United Russia party, had ''proven that we live in a
healthy society that is confident in its fair demands, in which immunity to
populism and demagoguery is growing stronger and the importance of mutual
support, solidarity and unity are highly valued.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/01/world/europe/vladimir-putin-us-russia.html

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a departure, Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, avoided
sarcastic comments about the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI
KOCHETKOV/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             307 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

'We're Going to Get This Done': Wisconsin Starts Vote Recount

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN; Steve Eder contributed reporting from New York

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1071 words


ELKHORN, Wis. -- The basement room was cleared of pens with blue or black ink,
items that could mar paper ballots. Anyone wearing a coat was told to leave it
in the hallway, in case something nefarious was hidden underneath. Water
bottles, purses and keys were placed on the floor, leaving the large plastic
tables smooth and uncluttered.

And at 9 a.m., with the brisk rap of a county clerk's wooden gavel, the first
recount of the 2016 presidential election was underway in Wisconsin, with
another recount pending in the neighboring battleground state of Michigan.

For the next 12 days, election officials across all 72 counties in Wisconsin
will work days, nights and weekends to recount nearly three million ballots, an
effort initiated and financed by Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential
candidate, who has suggested that voting machines in the state could have been
hacked.

Very few people expect that the recount will reverse the outcome of the
election. President-elect Donald J. Trump triumphed here over Hillary Clinton by
22,177 votes, and in Michigan by 10,704 votes, a margin that a lawyer for Mrs.
Clinton, Marc Elias, said had never been overcome in a recount. Legal challenges
to the vote in Pennsylvania, where Mr. Trump leads by 70,638 votes, are also
underway.

As Wisconsin was beginning to take another look at its votes, the efforts in
Michigan and Pennsylvania remained in flux.

The Michigan secretary of state's office announced that Mr. Trump on Thursday
objected to the recount, halting plans to begin the process on Friday. Lawyers
for Mr. Trump argued that Ms. Stein did not qualify to demand a recount and that
it would not be finished in time for the Electoral College, which meets on Dec.
19. The board plans to hear the objection on Friday, and if it rejects it, the
recount would probably commence on Tuesday.

In Pennsylvania, where Ms. Stein's efforts have more hurdles, election officials
in Philadelphia said on Thursday that, pending litigation, they would begin
recounting votes in 75 precincts on Friday, a small portion of the nearly 1,700
in the city. The elections commission, though, denied a request for a full
forensic audit of the city's voting machines.

Here in Elkhorn, a city of about 10,000 people in Walworth County in southern
Wisconsin, the recount began in a government building downtown, where workers
approached their task with both urgency and trepidation. They are expecting to
count ballots for close to 12 hours a day until the task is complete -- their
deadline is Dec. 12. The Electoral College will vote on Dec. 19.

''We're going to be working long hours, but we're going to get this done,'' said
Kimberly S. Bushey, the clerk for Walworth County. When a co-worker suggested
that the group would be taking a lunch break at some point, she answered with a
terse ''Maybe.''

Tabulators, mostly retirees, are being paid $25 for each half day they work, and
county officials say they would bring in workers as needed to count the 51,000
ballots in time.

In Wisconsin, recounts are not terribly unusual. Another vast statewide recount
happened only four years ago, for a seat on the state's Supreme Court. The
recount took more than a month.

Michael Cotter, a staff member in the county clerk's office, stood on the
sidelines on Thursday morning and recalled at least three other recounts that he
had taken part in, dating from a countywide do-over for a judicial seat in the
spring of 2000.

''We had punch ballots back then, so I knew all about pregnant chads and hanging
chads before Bush and Gore,'' he said. ''They kept falling out of the ballots
and they were all over the floor, like confetti.''

Election officials here seemed determined to keep the process orderly. Observers
were told to stay several feet away from the tabulators, on one side of the room
marked off by green tape. Donna Emelity, a tabulator, said she was volunteering
out of a sense of civic duty. ''Wisconsin is run very honest,'' she said. ''I
think it will prove to people that it's an honest election and it'll help people
have more confidence.''

Representatives of the campaigns were allowed to be closer to the process,
peering over the shoulders of election officials as they tested machines and
used pliers to snip open white plastic sacks of ballots.

Mary Gilding, a volunteer for the Stein campaign who was there to oversee the
recount, said that she did not ''have a dog in this fight,'' but merely wanted
to ensure that the election results were accurate.

''I hope we find that there won't be anything that went wrong in our little
county,'' Ms. Gilding said. ''But with all that's going on with hacking, we need
to find out for sure.''

Ms. Stein has argued that counting by hand is more accurate than machine
recounting, but lost a hearing on Tuesday that could have mandated a statewide
hand count. That left the decision up to individual county clerks, who opted
mostly for a hand count. A few said they were bowing to demands from people who
found counting by machines to be suspicious; Walworth County officials said they
would use a combination of counting by hand and feeding ballots into an optical
scanner.

In a statement, Ms. Stein hailed the start of the recount as a ''critical first
step towards restoring faith in our voting system'' while urging election
administrators to review ballots by hand, and ''not simply push a button that
would repeat whatever problems may have occurred in the original tally.''

State Republicans have dismissed the recount as a stunt. Mr. Trump posted an
angry response on Twitter about it this week.

Governor Walker, a Republican, has criticized the recount. ''The motivations
behind the recount are questionable and ultimately costly,'' Tom Evenson, a
spokesman, said in an email. ''Governor Walker has confidence in Wisconsin's
electoral process and believes it is both fair and protected.''

Andrea Kaminski, executive director of the League of Women Voters in Wisconsin,
said she did not expect the recount to change the election results in a
significant way.

But she said the recount was consistent with a Wisconsin trait: ''the fact that
we have so darn many elections.''

''That reflects not so much our high level of civic participation, but the
polarization that we're under right now,'' she said. ''Right now, Wisconsin is
just in a lock of polarized politics where neither side is willing to
compromise.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/01/us/vote-recounts-wisconsin-michigan-pennsylvan
ia.html

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The recounting of Wisconsin presidential votes began on
Thursday at a government building in Elkhorn, in Walworth County in the southern
part of the state. It is expected to take 12 days. (A14)
 Serial numbers were checked on sealed ballots in Elkhorn on Thursday during the
start of the recount of the Wisconsin presidential vote. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAUREN
JUSTICE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             308 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trump and Clinton Aides Clash During Election Forum

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 887 words


CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Top strategists from the campaigns of Donald J. Trump and
Hillary Clinton, interrupting each other and sometimes raising their voices,
engaged in an angry debate on Thursday about how Mr. Trump pulled off his upset
victory.

Emotions were still raw at the campaign post-mortem, held at Harvard's Institute
of Politics, particularly over the influence of Stephen K. Bannon, who left
Breitbart News -- which he has called a ''platform'' for the white nationalist
alt-right -- to help run Mr. Trump's campaign.

Mr. Bannon will serve as a senior aide to Mr. Trump. David Bossie, Mr. Trump's
deputy campaign manager, called Mr. Bannon a ''brilliant strategist.''

That provoked the Clinton campaign's director of communications, Jennifer
Palmieri, to respond, ''If providing a platform for white supremacists makes me
a brilliant tactician, I am more proud to have lost.''

Mr. Bannon was scheduled to participate in the event but did not attend. That
did not stop several hundred demonstrators from protesting him Wednesday evening
outside Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government, where the post-mortem
was held as part of a two-day conference.

With campaign managers and pollsters talking over one another and a large crowd
of campaign veterans from the news media looking on, Ms. Palmieri said her
proudest moment from the campaign was a speech Mrs. Clinton gave in Nevada
condemning the alt-right.

''I would rather lose than win the way you guys did,'' Ms. Palmieri said.

Kellyanne Conway, who was Mr. Trump's third and final campaign manager, asked,
''How exactly did we win?''

She answered her own question: by connecting with voters in places ''where we
were either ignored or mocked roundly by most of the people in this room.''

''Do you think I ran a campaign where white supremacists had a platform?'' Ms.
Conway asked Ms. Palmieri. ''You're going to look me in the face and tell me
that?''

Ms. Conway went on, pointing out Mrs. Clinton's failings. ''Do you think you
could have just had a decent message for the white working-class voters?'' she
asked the Clinton advisers. ''How about it's Hillary Clinton, she doesn't
connect with people? How about they had nothing in common with her? How about
you had no economic message?''

Joel Benenson, Mrs. Clinton's pollster, accused the Trump campaign of using
''dog whistles'' about immigrants and minorities to appeal to white voters in
battleground states. Robby Mook, Mrs. Clinton's campaign manager, disputed the
notion that Mr. Trump won primarily by appealing on economic issues, citing exit
polls in Michigan and Wisconsin showing Mrs. Clinton carried more voters who
ranked the economy as their top issue.

The highly charged exchange was followed by a more restrained conversation
between Ms. Conway and Mr. Mook, moderated by the CNN host Jake Tapper. CNN will
broadcast the discussion on Sunday.

But it was the more raucous session earlier in the day where the passions of the
campaign still seemed at a barely contained boil.

The participants, half a dozen from each campaign who faced each other while
seated at two tables, argued about whether Mr. Trump had won a mandate. ''You
won the Electoral College; don't pretend you have a mandate,'' Mr. Benenson
said. ''Two and a half million more Americans thought she was a better
candidate.''

''Hey guys,'' Ms. Conway replied. ''We won. Why is there no mandate?''

Mrs. Clinton's advisers argued repeatedly that two public letters by James B.
Comey, the F.B.I. director, about Mrs. Clinton's emails less than two weeks
before Election Day pushed enough undecided voters away from her to swing the
election. They also said that voters were seeking fundamental change in
Washington, a strong headwind Mrs. Clinton could never overcome.

In a rare point of agreement, both campaigns faulted the news media. They said
leading newspapers and TV networks were so convinced Mr. Trump was unelectable
that they never took him seriously. That led to ''hyper-fixation'' on Mrs.
Clinton's use of a private email server, Mr. Mook said.

''Mr. Trump had a unique ability to speak directly to the American people and go
past the media, whether in 140 characters or making a statement somewhere,'' Mr.
Bossie said.

The Trump strategists repeatedly said the Clinton campaign had tried to
disqualify Mr. Trump based on his temperament and statements, while
misunderstanding the appeal of his promise to keep Americans safe from terrorism
at home and abroad.

''They wanted to frame the race as, 'Do you trust him to have his finger on the
button?''' said Tony Fabrizio, Mr. Trump's pollster.

''At the end of the day, what a lot of voters didn't buy was that it was ever
going to be a time where you have to worry about his finger on the button,'' he
said. ''This wasn't Barry Goldwater.''

Asked by Mr. Tapper whether Mr. Trump's recent posting of misinformation on
Twitter about millions of undocumented immigrants voting was presidential, Ms.
Conway defended the message.

''He's the president-elect, so that's presidential behavior,'' she said.

At one point, Ms. Conway threw up her hands in frustration at the close scrutiny
of the campaign. ''Everybody wants to go back in a time machine and do things
differently so this result that nobody saw coming won't come somehow,'' she
said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/01/us/politics/campaign-managers-trump-clinton-cr
ackle-in-debate.html

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kellyanne Conway, the Trump campaign manager, and Robby Mook,
the Clinton campaign manager, at Harvard on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES
KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             309 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Blame Me

BYLINE: By JENNIFER FINNEY BOYLAN.

Jennifer Finney Boylan, a contributing opinion writer, is a professor of English
at Barnard College and a board co-chairwoman of Glaad.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1035 words


It was the morning after the election. The bottle of Champagne I'd opened as
part of an anticipated victory celebration still sat on the coffee table, only
one-third finished, the unconsumed flat remainder marking the exact moment that
my future, as a transgender American, became uncertain.

I wanted to hear Hillary Clinton's concession speech, but she was late to the
podium. On TV, a commentator speculated that Mrs. Clinton had lost because of
her party's focus on things like trans rights -- ''boutique issues,'' they were
called.

A boutique -- a place where you'd shop for, say, artisan pantyhose -- is not the
first place I'd associate with an individual's quest for equal protection under
the law, but then what did I know? I was now one of the people from whom the
country had been ''taken back.''

The phrase echoed unpleasantly in my mind. A boutique issue? Is this what my
fellow Americans had thought of my fight for dignity all along?

It wasn't the first time I'd heard it. This summer, Bill Maher cautioned that
''there's no room for boutique issues in an Armageddon election.'' He
volunteered to put his own pet cause -- ''legalized weed'' -- to one side if it
would help the party win Ohio. ''And you know me, I have seeds in my urine.''
Apparently providing a person like me with health care and protecting me from
violence and discrimination in the workplace were on the same order of magnitude
as the right to roll a doober.

Nov. 8 is over, and legalized pot did very well, thank you. The future of
L.G.B.T. rights is more tenuous.

This is not only because Donald J. Trump's administration is filling up with
people who oppose L.G.B.T. equality. It's because the Democrats may now dismiss
our urgent needs as unaffordable luxuries, and back off the fight. As a local
Democratic official in Ohio put it in a memo to the Clinton campaign: ''Look,
I'm as progressive as anybody, O.K.? But people in the heartland thought the
Democratic Party cared more about where someone else went to the restroom than
whether they had a good-paying job.''

I was present in 2014 when President Obama signed an executive order expanding a
ban on L.G.B.T. discrimination in the workplace, so close to the president that
I could have thrown glitter into his graying hair if I'd taken the notion. It
was one of the proudest moments of my life.

That order could be one of the first things to go in January when President
Trump ''erases the Obama presidency'' on Day 1 of his administration (in the
words of Stephen Moore, a Trump adviser and Heritage Foundation fellow). Other
issues on the chopping block could include the lifting of the ban on transgender
military service and the Justice Department's backing of trans students under
Title IX.

Mr. Trump has occasionally expressed support for L.G.B.T. issues, although, as
usual, it's impossible to know his core values. He has opposed a constitutional
amendment banning marriage equality. And yet he's also pledged to appoint a
Supreme Court justice who would overturn the Supreme Court's ruling that
legalized same-sex marriage.

If his intentions are unclear, those of the people around him are anything but.
Mike Pence, his vice president-elect, is one of the most extreme opponents of
gay, lesbian and transgender people in the nation. In Indiana, he signed a bill
to jail same-sex couples applying for a marriage license. He wanted to divert
funding from H.I.V. programs to conversion therapy. He opposed the repeal of
''don't ask, don't tell.''

On the state level, L.G.B.T. people face even greater losses. One advocacy group
puts the number of anti-L.G.B.T. bills waiting to be introduced nationwide next
year at more than 200. Texas is likely to lead the way. Its Senate Bill 242
would punish teachers who keep students' sexual identities private from their
parents -- in effect forcing them to out the students. Senate Bill 92 would void
local anti-discrimination ordinances. And the so-called Women's Privacy Act,
like House Bill 2 in North Carolina, would force transgender people to use the
bathroom of the gender on their birth certificate, regardless of their anatomy,
appearance or identification.

Across the country, L.G.B.T. activists fear the advance of other laws pushing
back against the progress that's been made over the last eight years. Some will
come in the form of First Amendment Defense Acts. These would legalize
anti-L.G.B.T. discriminatory actions by employers, health care providers,
landlords and other businesses -- as long as these are motivated by religious
belief.

Who will fight against these laws, if Democrats give up on their commitment to
justice? Colin Jost, on ''Saturday Night Live,'' made light of this when he
noted the new Tinder feature giving users 37 different gender options. He said,
''It's called 'Why Democrats Lost the Election.' ''

I don't deny that a generalized fear of ''political correctness'' contributed to
the resentment of some Trump voters. But Mrs. Clinton hardly campaigned as an
L.G.B.T. firebrand. In fact, there's really only one race in which L.G.B.T.
rights played a major role -- the governorship of North Carolina, where the
Republican incumbent, Pat McCrory, rammed House Bill 2 through his Legislature
last spring.

A recount is underway, but Mr. McCrory is for now at least 10,000 votes short of
re-election. His relentless campaign against L.G.B.T. people led to an economic
backlash from corporate America and -- perhaps of greater offense to the people
of North Carolina -- from the N.C.A.A., which moved championship basketball
games out of the state. If he hadn't taken the issue on, he would most likely be
on the threshold of his second term.

When Mr. Obama signed that executive order in 2014, he said, ''We've got an
obligation to make sure that the country we love remains a place where no matter
who you are, or what you look like, or where you come from, or how you started
out, or what your last name is, or who you love -- no matter what, you can make
it in this country.''

This is not a boutique truth, but an American truth.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion),
and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/02/opinion/really-youre-blaming-transgender-peopl
e-for-trump.html

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WESLEY ALLSBROOK)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Times Company


                             310 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Facebook's Problem Is More Complicated Than Fake News

BYLINE: R. Kelly Garrett

LENGTH: 1467 words


In the wake of Donald Trump's unexpected victory, many questions have been
raised about Facebook's role in the promotion of inaccurate and highly partisan
information during the presidential race and whether this fake news influenced
the election's outcome.

A few have downplayed Facebook's impact, including CEO Mark Zuckerberg, who said
that it is "extremely unlikely" that fake news could have swayed the election.
But questions about the social network's political significance merit more than
passing attention.

Do Facebook's filtering algorithms explain why so many liberals had misplaced
confidence in a Clinton victory (echoing the error made by Romney supporters in
2012)? And is the fake news being circulated on Facebook the reason that so many
Trump supporters have endorsed demonstrably false statements made by their
candidate?

The popular claim that "filter bubbles" are why fake news thrives on Facebook is
almost certainly wrong. If the network is encouraging people to believe untruths
- and that's a big if - the problem more likely lies in how the platform
interacts with basic human social tendencies. That's far more difficult to
change.

A misinformed public

Facebook's role in the dissemination of political news is undeniable. In May
2016, 44 percent of Americans said they got news from the social media site. And
the prevalence of misinformation disseminated through Facebook is undeniable.

It's plausible, then, that the amount of fake news on a platform where so many
people get their news can help explain why so many Americans are misinformed
about politics.

But it's hard to say how likely this is. I began studying the internet's role in
promoting false beliefs during the 2008 election, turning my attention to social
media in 2012. In ongoing research, I've found little consistent evidence that
social media use promoted acceptance of false claims about the candidates,
despite the prevalence of many untruths. Instead, it appears that in 2012, as in
2008, email continued to be a uniquely powerful conduit for lies and conspiracy
theories. Social media had no reliably detectable effect on people's beliefs.

For a moment, however, let's suppose that 2016 was different from 2012 and 2008.
(The election was certainly unique in many other regards.)

If Facebook is promoting a platform in which citizens are less able to discern
truth from fiction, it would constitute a serious threat to American democracy.
But naming the problem isn't enough. To fight the flow of misinformation through
social media, it's important to understand why it happens.

Don't blame filter bubbles

Facebook wants its users to be engaged, not overwhelmed, so it employs
proprietary software that filters users' news feeds and chooses the content that
will appear. The risk lies in how this tailoring is done.

There's ample evidence that people are drawn to news that affirms their
political viewpoint. Facebook's software learns from users' past actions; it
tries to guess which stories they are likely to click or share in the future.
Taken to its extreme, this produces a filter bubble, in which users are exposed
only to content that reaffirms their biases. The risk, then, is that filter
bubbles promote misperceptions by hiding the truth.

The appeal of this explanation is obvious. It's easy to understand, so maybe
it'll be easy to fix. Get rid of personalized news feeds, and filter bubbles are
no more.

The problem with the filter bubble metaphor is that it assumes people are
perfectly insulated from other perspectives. In fact, numerousstudieshaveshown
that individuals' media diets almost always include information and sources that
challenge their political attitudes. And a study of Facebook user data found
that encounters with cross-cutting information is widespread. In other words,
holding false beliefs is unlikely to be explained by people's lack of contact
with more accurate news.

Instead, people's preexisting political identities profoundly shape their
beliefs. So even when faced with the same information, whether it's a news
article or a fact check, people with different political orientations often
extract dramatically different meaning.

A thought experiment may help: If you were a Clinton supporter, were you aware
that the highly respected prediction site FiveThirtyEight gave Clinton only a 71
percent chance of winning? Those odds are better than a coin flip, but far from
a sure thing. I suspect that many Democrats were shocked despite seeing this
uncomfortable evidence. Indeed, many had been critical of this projection in the
days before the election.

If you voted for Trump, have you ever encountered evidence disputing Trump's
assertion that voter fraud is commonplace in the U.S.? Fact checkers and news
organizations have covered this issue extensively, offering robust evidence that
the claim is untrue. However a Trump supporter might be unmoved: In a September
2016 poll, 90 percent of Trump supporters said they didn't trust fact checkers.

Facebook = angry partisans?

If isolation from the truth really is the main source of inaccurate information,
the solution would be obvious: Make the truth more visible.

Unfortunately, the answer isn't that simple. Which brings us back to the
question of Facebook: Are there other aspects of the service that might distort
users' beliefs?

It will be some time before researchers can answer this question confidently,
but as someone who has studied how the various ways that other internet
technologies can lead people to believe false information, I'm prepared to offer
a few educated guesses.

There are two things that we already know about Facebook that could encourage
the spread of false information.

First, emotions are contagious, and they can spread on Facebook. One large-scale
study has shown that small changes in Facebook users' news feeds can shape the
emotions they express in later posts. In that study, the emotional changes were
small, but so were the changes in the news feed that caused them. Just imagine
how Facebook users respond to widespread accusations of candidates' corruption,
criminal activity and lies. It isn't surprising that nearly half (49 percent) of
all users described political discussion on social media as "angry."

When it comes to politics, anger is a powerful emotion. It's been shown to make
people more willing to accept partisan falsehoods and more likely to post and
share political information, presumably including fake news articles that
reinforce their beliefs. If Facebook use makes partisans angry while also
exposing them to partisan falsehoods, ensuring the presence of accurate
information may not matter much. Republican or Democrat, angry people put their
trust in information that makes their side look good.

Second, Facebook seems to reinforce people's political identity - furthering an
already large partisan divide. While Facebook doesn't shield people from
information they disagree with, it certainly makes it easier to find like-minded
others. Our social networks tend to include many people who share our values and
beliefs. And this may be another way that Facebook is reinforcing politically
motivated falsehoods. Beliefs often serve a social function, helping people to
define who they are and how they fit in the world. The easier it is for people
to see themselves in political terms, the more attached they are to the beliefs
that affirm that identity.

These two factors - the way that anger can spread over Facebook's social
networks, and how those networks can make individuals' political identity more
central to who they are - likely explain Facebook users' inaccurate beliefs more
effectively than the so-called filter bubble.

If this is true, then we have a serious challenge ahead of us. Facebook will
likely be convinced to change its filtering algorithm to prioritize more
accurate information. Google has already undertaken a similar endeavor. And
recent reports suggest that Facebook may be taking the problem more seriously
than Zuckerberg's comments suggest.

But this does nothing to address the underlying forces that propagate and
reinforce false information: emotions and the people in your social networks.
Nor is it obvious that these characteristics of Facebook can or should be
"corrected." A social network devoid of emotion seems like a contradiction, and
policing who individuals interact with is not something that our society should
embrace.

It may be that Facebook shares some of the blame for some of the lies that
circulated this election year - and that they altered the course of the
election.

If true, the challenge will be to figure out what we can do about it.

R. Kelly Garrett is an Associate Professor of Communication at The Ohio State
University. This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the
original article.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             311 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Auction Autopsy: Christie's, Sotheby's and Phillips Impressionist and Modern
Sales

BYLINE: Daniel Grant

LENGTH: 1192 words


Perhaps, at the end of week of major Impressionist/Modern and Contemporary art
sales at Christie's, Sotheby's and Phillips, the big surprise was that there was
no big surprise. Still lagging oil prices, the effect of Brexit on the British
and European economies and, most of all, the unexpected results of the U.S.
presidential elections, appeared to have little impact on art buying behavior.

"We usually schedule our Impressionist and Modern sale for the week before our
contemporary sale," said Jeremiah Evarts, head of Sotheby's Impressionist and
Modern evening sales, "but this year we thought it a better strategy to put
distance between the election and the auctions, insulating the market players by
moving the sale to the contemporary week." That strategy seems to have worked,
as international stock markets dipped briefly in the immediate aftermath of
Donald Trump's victory but then recovered and even moved higher. "Whatever
worries they had the week before, they moved on," he said.

Those pre-auction jitters were "more on the minds of our sellers than our
buyers," said Christie's head of post-war and contemporary art Sara Friedlander,
which made it "challenging to put together these sales." One collector, she
stated, had considered consigning a major piece but decided to hold off until
next May before putting it up for sale.

Still, Friedlander noted that the strong prices and a "high sell-through rate"
indicated that "art is one of the more stable things in the world and,
considering the recent election, people are happy to be thinking about art
instead of other things." This is not a "frothy moment when people are
overpaying," but spend collectors did, if quite often nearer the lower estimate
than the higher.

There were no nine-figure prices for works in any of these sales, reflecting the
auction houses' difficulties in obtaining the most exceptional consignments at a
time when the art market does not appear to be as robust as in past years, as
Natasha Degen, professor and chair of their art market master's program at New
York's Fashion Institute of Technology, told the Observer. "If I had a
nine-figure work of art, I'm not sure that I would put it up for sale right now,
either," she admitted.

Philip Hoffman, founder and chief executive officer of the Fine Art Group in
London, called the week's sales "exceedingly ordinary except for maybe 10 lots,
but with all the uncertainty leading up to these auctions ordinary does not
sound all that bad." Both he and Manhattan art advisor Suzanne Modica found that
the contemporary art sales were livelier affairs than those of Impressionist and
Modern art. "Just sitting in the gallery during the auctions, there seemed to be
more excitement during the contemporary sales, more bidding," she said.

There were a number of record prices set throughout the various sales,
including:

Claude Monet's 1891 Meule (Grainstack). $81.4 million (estimate "in the region
of $45 million"): Christie'sWillem de Kooning's 1977 Untitled XXV. $66.3
million: Christie's ("The opening price was pretty aggressive, but I guess they
needed to do that to win the consignment," Hoffman said. "And it turned out
alright.")Wassily Kandinsky's 1935 Rigide et Courbe. (Rigid and Bent). $23.3
million (estimate $18-25 million): Christie'sJohn Currin's 1999 Nice 'n Easy.
$12 million (estimate $12-18 million): Christie'sDavid Hockney's Woldgate Woods,
24, 25, and 26 October 2006. $11.7 million (estimate $9-12 million):
Sotheby'sLászló Moholy-Nagy's 1923 porcelain enamel on steel Em 1 Telephonbild.
$6 million (estimate $3-4 million): Sotheby's ("A connoisseur's choice, a super
sophisticated work, which is reflected in the fact that the buyer was the Museum
of Modern Art," said art advisor Todd Levin, director of the Levin Art
Group.)Njideka Akunyili Crosby's 2012 acrylic and colored pencil Drown. $1.09
million(estimate $200,000-300,000): Sotheby'sCarmen Herrer's 1965 Cerulean.
$970,000 (estimate $600,000-800,000): PhillipsMira Schendel's 1985-86 Sem titulo
(XII). $970,000 (estimate $800,000-1.2 million): PhillipsMike Kelley's 1984 Cave
Painting. $516,500 (estimate $500,000-700,000): Sotheby's

Perhaps, one post-war artist whose collectors might have been reticent about
selling was Agnes Martin, for whom only work was put up for sale, her 1983
Untitled #6, which Christie's estimated at $5-7 million and achieved $6.7
million with buyer's premium. A retrospective of the artist's work, organized by
the Tate Museum in London, is currently on view at New York's Guggenheim Museum
(through January 11). "When there is a current exhibition, there usually is a
lot of buzz, and we expected that the market might be flooded by her work,
especially since we set an auction record for her work last May," Friedlander
said, referring to Martin's oil and graphite on canvas Orange Grove, which
earned $10,693,000 (estimate $6.5-8.5 million). The strong price for Martin's
Untitled #6, she suggested, reflects the "market's sense" that "her work is
undervalued."

The artist who may have been the biggest winner of the week for whom there was
no record auction price set is 84 year-old German artist Gerhard Richter, whose
works were sold by Christie's, Phillips and Sotheby's, and images of his
paintings were the covers of both Phillips and Sotheby's contemporary art
catalogues. The Sotheby's November 17 contemporary art sale included seven of
the artist's paintings from the Steven and Ann Ames collection, of which six
sold, among them the 1988 A.B. St. James($22,737,500) and the 1986 A. B. Still
($33,987,500). As one New York art advisor noted, "Richter has entered the
pantheon that has long included Picasso, Pollock and Warhol, the standard bearer
of a commodified currency."

By the numbers, Sotheby's evening November 14 sale of Impressionist and Modern
art brought $157.7 million, down from last year's $306.7 million, and the number
of lots was a bit lower (42 this year as compared to 47 in 2015) while the
percentage of sales was a bit higher (81 percent, as compared to 76 percent).

Christie's November 15 evening sale of post-war and contemporary art earned $277
million, down a bit from last year's $331.8 million, but the number of artworks
for sale (61 this year, 66 in 2015) and the percentage of lots sold (89 percent
this year, 80 percent in 2015) were in the same general range.

Christie's November 16 Impressionist and Modern Art sale generated $246.3
million in sales, which was higher than last year's $145.5 million, with the
higher totals achieved with fewer artworks for sale (48 this year, 59 last year)
and similar percentages sold (81 percent this year, 83 percent in 2015).

Phillips November 16 evening sale of 20th century and contemporary art earned
$111.2 million, a sizeable jump over last year's inaugural sale in this category
of $66.9 million, and selling 92 percent of the offerings, similar to 2015's 90
percent sell-through rate.

Sotheby's November 17 sale of contemporary art earned $276.6 million, close to
last year's 294.6 million, with more artworks for sale (64, compared to 2015's
54) and a higher sell-through rate (93 percent this year, 81 percent in 2015).


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             312 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Don't Let Clinton's 'Basket of Deplorables' Divide the Office

BYLINE: Keith Liscio

LENGTH: 1490 words


The divisive election our country just endured has revealed fault lines
throughout society-including the workplace. Now, those political divisions
threaten to impact staffing decisions as candidates and hiring managers adopt
the use of a term introduced during the latter stages of this campaign:
Deplorable.

It's a simple enough word. The Merriam-Websterdefinition of deplorable as an
adjective meaning "very bad in a way that causes shock, fear, or disgust" never
seems to have been questioned or controversial.

That all changed when Hillary Clinton told an audience at a campaign event, "you
could put half of Trump's supporters into what I call the basket of
deplorables." She then specified that she was referring to, "The racist, sexist,
homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic-you name it."

The transformation of this simple adjective into a noun loaded with pejorative
connotations may be the Clinton campaign's most lasting legacy as the word and
its implications transcend the political and move into the general society and
the world of work. Clinton has routinized the use of the most extreme and loaded
rhetoric to tar the reputations of political opponents and the public has
adopted her tactic and carried it forward into others areas of American life.

Clinton's original intent was to set up a simple straw man argument: Everybody
is opposed to X, Y, and Z. Trump and his supporters are X, Y, and Z. Therefore,
everybody should oppose Trump.

While she was right that the overwhelmingly vast majority of Americans opposes
racism, sexism, etc. as they are commonly understood, she overestimated the
degree to which the public at large had bought into the progressive
redefinitions of these terms.

For instance, most Americans view racism as the discrimination against or
persecution of blacks and other minorities, based on their skin color or ethnic
background. The term calls up visions of marching Klansmen, church burnings and
Jim Crow. Racism of this type has been largely eradicated in America and, to
their credit, most Americans of every political persuasion reject this kind of
hateful behavior.

When Clinton refers to "the racist" though, she's not referring to David Duke-or
even Robert Byrd. She's using a constantly evolving understanding of the term
that continually twists to the advantage of progressives. In her parlance,
someone who has the temerity to say "All Lives Matter" or refuses to accept the
argument that all Caucasians in America unfairly benefit from "white privilege"
in everything they do, can be labeled a racist. She could be talking about
Republican soccer moms.

Likewise, somebody who questions the tendentious statistic that women are paid
77 cents for each dollar earned by men could be labeled sexist. If you accept
the past two thousand years of Western tradition regarding marriage, you are
homophobic. Recognizing that even a nation of immigrants has legitimate reasons
to control its borders infers xenophobia. And, of course, discerning that while
not all Muslims are terrorists, Islamo-facist terrorists are almost always
Muslim can only mean you are Islamaphobic.

This attempt to reshape the vernacular is designed to reshape the arguments of
the day in a manner that eliminates any defense. Instead of discussing issues,
opponents have to constantly defend themselves against baseless charges of bias
which automatically give the advantage to the side leveling the charges. In this
environment, name calling pays.

Now that the election is over, partisans are using these same tactics to reshape
the workplace in much the same way that the political landscape has already been
reshaped. Last week, GrubHub CEO Matt Maloney sent a companywide letter to
employees which was very critical of Donald Trump's election, politics, and
tactics arguing that Trump's "behavior-and these views, have no place at
GrubHub. Had he worked here, many of his comments would have resulted in his
immediate termination."

While Trump's behavior and views were certainly controversial, the
"deplorableness" of them is open to debate. Maloney left no doubt about where he
stood, however, saying, "If you do not agree with this statement then please
reply to this email with your resignation because you have no place here. We do
not tolerate hateful attitudes on our team."

Again, the term "hateful attitudes" is what is really at issue. Maloney later
issued a clarification saying that "the message of the email is that we do not
tolerate discriminatory activity or hateful commentary in the workplace, and
that we will stand up for our employees." Laudable, but his condemnation of
Trump indicated that "hateful commentary" within GrubHub may not necessarily be
the same as in the nation at large. In any case, employees at GrubHub certainly
know where the boss stands on intolerance-and in the political arena.

This week at TheWall Street Journal's CEO Council Sen. Elizabeth Warren warned
those in attendance that "bigotry is bad for business." Again, who can argue
with that statement? Bigotry is bad for business and bad for America. The real
question is whether someone is a bigot just because they don't conform to the
progressive version of reality laid out by the senior senator from
Massachusetts. Warren is a huge proponent of diversity and diversity clearly is
good for business. But is the good senator as comfortable with diversity of
thought and opinion?  Those are good for business, too.

Some research suggests that candidates don't necessarily benefit by sharing the
political affiliation of those interviewing them, but they can be harmed if they
don't share that political affiliation. Deplorability, however, extends beyond
political affiliation into attitudes, beliefs, and lifestyle-and both sides have
their own version of what is politically deplorable. Do we really want to extend
these political feuds into the workplace?

It's not hard to imagine where this could lead. Imagine a hypothetical workplace
of the near future. Ron is a Sales Manager of a small B2B manufacturing firm.
He's interviewing Christian for a Sales Rep position. Christian has the
requisite education, experience, and industry contacts to excel in this role.
He's bright, personable, and accomplished. Still, there's something that's
concerning Ron.

At the bottom of his resume, under a section titled "Other Interests" Chis has
listed the organization Knights of Columbus. Hmmm. Catholic. Is this guy some
bleeding heart-a social justice warrior? He's probably for open borders.
Anti-gun. Anti-death penalty. Our customers are real tough guys. How are they
going to react to somebody like this?

Unable to make a decision, but unwilling to take a pass on such a qualified
candidate, Ron decides to ask his colleague Debbie to meet with Christian.
Debbie is the company's Marketing Manager and they work closely together on a
lot of issues. Ron and Debbie like and respect each other and work well
together. Debbie, however, gets stuck on the same line on Christian's resume.
Catholic. How horribly backward. A defender of the patriarchy. He probably
opposes women making their own healthcare decisions. We have gay people that
work here. How are they going to react to somebody like this?

In the end, Ron and Debbie decide to take a pass on hiring Christian. He seems
qualified, but they both agree that there's something about him that just won't
quite fit at their firm.

As a recruiter, I see candidates passed over all the time. Sometimes for
skill-based reasons: A candidate doesn't have enough experience analyzing IRI
data or operating a specific ERP system. Sometimes for personality based
reasons: A candidate isn't outgoing enough to excel in a sales job or has a bad
attitude. Sometimes the client just can't pinpoint a reason. There's just
something that makes them unfit for hire. Our current political environment has
the potential for seeping into businesses and hiring decisions in ways not seen
before. We're creating new reasons to find qualified candidates unfit.

Business should be about groups of people banding together for a common goal.
Differing skill sets combined to serve customers at a profit. That's it.
Political affiliation shouldn't matter. Religion, race, sex and a whole variety
of already legally protected factors shouldn't influence hiring decisions. But
we're now crossing into the very dangerous area of classifying people by how
they think and punishing them for thoughts that aren't approved of by our
political elites. Our politics are already suffering as a result. Our businesses
will suffer as well and should firmly reject this notion.

Disclosure: Donald Trump is the father-in-law of Jared Kushner, the publisher of
Observer Media.

Keith Liscio is the president of Patrickson-Hirsch Associates, an Executive
Search firm specializing in the placement of marketing executives at
consumer-focused organizations. He is also a Third Degree Knight of Columbus.
Make of that what you will.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             313 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Pro-Clinton Media Outlets Blame Fake News for the Trump Mess They Made

BYLINE: Michael Sainato

LENGTH: 594 words


A memo attached to an April 2015 email released by WikiLeaks from Clinton
campaign chair John Podesta revealed that the campaign developed a strategy
early on to use the press to elevate "Pied Piper" candidates, including Donald
Trump. Once Trump publicly announced his presidential campaign in June 2015, the
mainstream media became obsessed with covering him.

Polls suggested it was in the best interest of the Clinton campaign to face
Trump in the general election. Moderate Republicans beat her in head-to-head
contests by several points, and her campaign needed a distraction from the FBI
investigation, Clinton Foundation pay-to-play schemes and conflicts of interest,
and the inevitable gaffes that incurred when Clinton was subject to public
exposure.

"Clinton, Trump trade insults as rhetoric heats up between front-runners," read
a CNN headline from September 2015. "Hillary Clinton Seizes On Donald Trump's
Remarks to Galvanize Women," read the New York Times. "Seeking America's 'lost'
greatness and finding Trump most appealing," read a Washington Post headline
from October 2015. "Donald Trump now running neck and neck with Hillary
Clinton," read another.

But rather than hold themselves accountable for obsessing over Trump, which
elevated his candidacy and molded him into the spokesperson for the Republican
Party, the mainstream media is now diverting the blame to "fake news."

A Washington Postarticle published on November 17 used a fake news source to
corroborate the narrative that fake news-and not the mainstream media-is
responsible for Trump's victory. The article features an interview with fiction
news author Paul Horner, treating him as though he were a reliable source.

The attention on fake news distracts from the fact that mainstream media,
including TheWashington Post, provided Donald Trump with nearly $2 billion
coverage; more than twice as much as Clinton received and over five times the
attention granted to Sen. Bernie Sanders.

While TheWashington Post helped develop Trump into the Republican front-runner,
it stacked the deck against Sanders-publishing 16 hit pieces in the span of 16
hours last March.

"Democrats would be insane to nominate Bernie Sanders" read a Washington Post
headline published a few days before the Iowa caucuses. Their editorial board
claimed Sanders' campaign was "fiction-filled" the next day. "Bernie Sanders's
most vitriolic supporters really test the meaning of the word 'progressive' "
read a Washington Postheadline published on March 10. "The problem with Bernie
Sanders's electability argument" read a January 12 headline. "Bernie Sanders'
real problem with black and Hispanic voters," read a Washington Post headline
from February. Because Sanders' record was free of the type of political
scandals that have permeated Clinton's record, TheWashington Post and other
mainstream media outlets manufactured problems for his campaign.

While The Washington Post helped make Trump into a formidable foe for Clinton to
face, it simultaneously worked to delegitimize and suppress Sanders' campaign.
The general election between Clinton and Trump was largely set up not by fake
news outlets but the mainstream media, who praised Clinton while pushing for the
"best" possible candidate for her to run against in the general election. This
strategy backfired, and now the same mainstream media outlets are resorting to
the same tactics to avoid taking any responsibility for the mess they helped
make.

Disclosure: Donald Trump is the father-in-law of Jared Kushner, the publisher of
Observer Media.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             314 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Bronx Pol Looks to Assure Africans About Donald Trump's Muslim Registry Proposal

BYLINE: Madina Toure

LENGTH: 640 words




Bronx Assemblyman Michael Blake-a top organizer in President Barack Obama's 2008
campaign-looked to assure African immigrants that Donald Trump's proposed Muslim
registry plan will be met with widespread backlash and ultimately collapse.

On the campaign trail, Trump has said he will ban Middle Eastern immigration to
the United States and that he would require Muslims to register themselves. He
was heard discussing a network that would register and track Muslims throughout
the country in a November 2015 video.

"I think it would be very difficult for him to go down that road," Blake said on
a community conference call on what a Trump presidency means for the African
community. "I think he would probably lose the community for generations for the
party and I think they will rationally try to walk him back from that."

Trump's spokesman, Jason Miller, has denied that such a plan is or ever was
being considered.

Blake asserted the best strategy that Muslims can employ is to collect anecdotes
of the impact such an action will have on communities, saying that there's
"really no way for us to effectively prepare otherwise."

"To the question of the registry, look, I think it is hard for us to actually
have a strategy to convey to the African community of exactly what will
president-elect do," Blake said. "I think, again, I think the approach being one
of being as proactive as possible."

And the plans for a Muslim registry are not the only unknown in the Trump era,
according to Blake-he says the future of President Barack Obama's Affordable
Care Act is unclear.

"We know the president-elect has conveyed that some parts will stay, some parts
may not," Blake said. "We don't know what that will be. It's important for
everyone to know that you can continue to enroll in the Affordable Care Act
now."

Ditto for Obama's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, an executive order
shielding people who arrived in United States illegally as children from
deportation-an initiative that covers nearly 800,000 youth, including 50,000 in
New York, and which Trump has promised to repeal.

"[I don't know] if any of us know what DACA looks like moving forward," he said.

 "It would be very difficult for us to ascertain what a Trump [administration]
would do."

Blake stressed the importance of having a Democratic State Senate to ensure
protection for immigrants, speaking about the need for the passage of the DREAM
Act, which would grant state tuition assistance to undocumented students. He
said that the Black, Puerto Rican, Hispanic and Asian Legislative Caucus was
convened yesterday and that there is unanimous support to move forward and to be
very active and clear.

"We're hopeful that the bills that we move forward will get this done," Blake
said.

The lawmaker commended Mayor Bill de Blasio and Gov. Andrew Cuomo for the
positions they have taken in the aftermath of Trump's victory, insisting that
the city and the state remain committed to protecting all residents but also
indicating that they may be able to find common ground with Trump on some
issues. And like the mayor, he said that he will fight against Trump's pledge to
institute more aggressive stop-and-frisk policing throughout the country as a
federal policy.

The assemblyman himself filed a complaint against the NYPD in August after he
said he was slammed into a gate by a police officer.

"Be very mindful of the rhetoric of stop and frisk as a national policy," Blake
said. "We say absolutely that we are in opposition of that being a national
policy."

The assemblyman said during the call organized by the African Leadership
Project-who included residents, advocates and community leaders-that they should
interact with elected officials at the federal, state and local levels.

Disclosure: Donald Trump is the father-in-law of Jared Kushner, the publisher of
Observer Media.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             315 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Brooklyn Borough President, a Rumored Rival to Bill de Blasio, Backs His
Re-Election

BYLINE: Madina Toure

LENGTH: 817 words


Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams-who has never hidden his designs on Gracie
Mansion-formally endorsed Mayor Bill de Blasio in Brooklyn for re-election next
year because "he gets it."

Joining the mayor at Salem Baptist Church this morning, Adams became the first
hypothetical Democratic rival of de Blasio's to back the mayor for a second
term. Pollsters have repeatedly included the former Central Brooklyn state
senator alongside Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. and Comptroller Scott
Stringer when surveying voters on potential primary match-ups.

"Nothing is better than having a leader of a city that is as diverse as New
York, particularly Brooklyn, 47 percent of Brooklynites speak a language other
than English at home," Adams said, praising the mayor for repeatedly pushing
back on President-elect Donald Trump. "He gets it. He gets it that we may or may
not be living in Trump Tower but our houses are our towers."

The borough president fended off criticisms that the mayor hasn't moved fast
enough in resolving key issues, saying that "our children are getting smarter
and our streets are safer."

"Now more than ever, we need a mayor that's willing to out-trump Trump, a Mayor
that's willing to stand up and fight for the values and principles of this city
and this country," Adams said. "A person who's not only tall in stature but a
giant among those little midgets that are going to hold the city back."

And Adams, a former NYPD captain, defended the mayor amid his bitter clashes
with police unions and former NYPD commissioner Raymond Kelly over the
administration's handling of crime and of Black Lives Matter protests that
flooded the streets in the aftermath of a cop's 2014 killing of Staten Islander
Eric Garner.

Today, Adams said that as an ex-police officer, he can tell when people "fake
the funk." He criticized Hillary Clinton for not coming to the church during the
presidential campaign

"All roads to leadership go through Salem and Hillary should've gotten the
memo," he said. "She should've understood that it's the Salems of this city and
country where the hopes and dreams of people are. This mayor gets it."

A recent Quinnipiac University survey found that nearly half of New Yorkers
believe de Blasio doesn't deserve reelection next fall found, but that in an
improbable five-way primary, de Blasio would pull 34 percent of the Democratic
vote and that Adams would draw 21 percent. Of those polled, 74 percent indicated
that they "haven't heard enough" about Adams.

Adams is a longtime rival to Congressman Hakeem Jeffries, an outspoken de Blasio
critic who recently said he has not ruled out a run for mayor. The two
African-American pols share the same base of voters in Central Brooklyn,
particularly in their native neighborhood of Crown Heights.



De Blasio used the occasion to reiterate his efforts to relieve New Yorkers'
fears about what could occur under a Trump presidency.

He said he looked Trump "in the eye" during their meeting at Trump Tower this
week and told him that the city has become safer since drastically reducing the
use of stop-and-frisk policing, a tactic the Republican president-elect has
praised. And he said the immigrant experience "made America great"-a jab at
Trump's "Make America Great Again" campaign slogan.

"Anyone who wants to revise history and airbrush out the immigrants is going to
find very little left in America and we need to have that conversation," he
said. "We need to take action because one election does not change who we are.
It does not."

Later this afternoon, former Mayor David Dinkins-the city's first and only black
mayor-endorsed the mayor at the Convent Avenue Baptist Church in Harlem. The two
share a long history, as de Blasio volunteered for his 1989 mayoral campaign and
worked for him as a City Hall staffer, which is how he met his future wife
Chirlane McCray, then a Dinkins speechwriter.

At a ceremony where he renamed the Manhattan Municipal Building for Dinkins last
year, he said that history does not acknowledge Dinkins' accomplishments.

Just six days after his former boss Hillary Clinton lost the presidential
election, the Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association-which represents 14,000
active and retired garbage handlers-announced its support for a second de Blasio
term, his first union endorsement. And three days ago, building workers union
32BJ SEIU, which represents doormen, custodians and security guards, announced
it would, too.

McCray said today Adams attended the launch of her ThriveNYC initiative to
combat the city's mental health crisis, had pushed hard for the mayor's Pre-K
for All initiative and that he is in a unique position to improve
police-community relations.

"Eric shares the values that strengthen our communities and we're so proud to
have him stand with us today," she said.

Disclosure: Donald Trump is the father-in-law of Jared Kushner, the publisher of
Observer Media.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             316 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Mainstream Media Recap: Who Colluded With the Clinton Campaign?

BYLINE: Michael Sainato

LENGTH: 1161 words


In April 2015, the Clinton campaign held a private dinner party with at least 65
journalists and pundits in attendance. Individuals from CNN, CBS, The New York
Times, NBC, MSNBC and more came together under the campaign's stated goal of
"framing the race" to help Clinton win. Many of the above media outlets were
indeed the Clinton campaign's biggest surrogates throughout the 2016
presidential election.

This past election cycle was unprecedented in terms of the bias and lack of
objectivity exercised by the mainstream media. The emphasis on mainstream media
blaming "fake news" for Donald Trump's election is an attempt to distract and
divert the feedback loop developed between the Clinton campaign and much of the
press. Throughout the 2016 election, the media obsessed over Trump to elevate
his candidacy. He was their preferred opponent for Hillary Clinton-after they
had thoroughly subverted Sen. Bernie Sanders' campaign for the Democratic
nomination.

Several journalists from The New York Times, which formally endorsed Clinton
twice, created propaganda for the Clinton campaign rather than independent
journalism. The Times' Mark Leibovich allowed Clinton campaign communications
director Jennifer Palmieri to "veto what you didn't want" from his interview
with Clinton. Maggie Haberman was listed by the Clinton campaign as a friendly
reporter with whom they could plant stories. Haberman also allowedClinton
campaign staff to proofread her pro-Clinton stories.

The Times' Patrick Healy published a "heroine" piece planted by the Clinton
campaign about New Hampshire Clinton campaign volunteer Laura Donahoe. Jonathan
Martin was revealed to have been coached through a story on the Clinton campaign
by manager Robby Mook. Jason Horowitz solicited a quote from Clinton campaign
chair John Podesta on a hit piece about the relationship between President Obama
and Sanders.

The New York Times wasn't alone. Politico reporter Ken Vogel had Democratic
National Committee (DNC) communications director Luis Miranda review an article
before he sent it to editors as part of an agreement with the DNC. Politico has
since called Vogel's actions "a mistake." Glenn Thrush also allowed Podesta to
approve articles.

CNN published an anti-Sanders Op-Ed written by Clinton lobbyist Maria Cardona-it
was proofread by the DNC.

The Intercept reported in May that an Op-Ed ostensibly written by Atlanta Mayor
Kasim Reed and intended to discredit Sanders was actually written by a Clinton
lobbyist and proofread by a Clinton Super PAC, which sent the article to CNN.
CNN regularly featured pundits with financial ties to the Clintons, yet failed
to disclose those ties before the pundits praised Clinton. DNC interim chair
Donna Brazile was revealed to have obtained CNN debate questions while working
for the network and forwarded them to the Clinton campaign. CNN also allowed the
DNC to compile questions to be asked during interviews with Republican
candidates on air.

In the WikiLeaks release of DNC emails, The Washington Post was exposed to have
hosted a joint fundraiser with the Clinton campaign. The paper published
hyperbolic hit pieces on Sanders throughout the primaries, including the
editorial board calling his campaign "fiction-filled" and an article published
with the title claiming that nominating Sanders would be "insane." Fairness and
Accuracy in Reporting's (FAIR) Adam Johnson pointed out the Postpublished 16 hit
pieces on Sanders in the span of 16 hours in early March. Harper's Thomas Frank
wrote also a detailed piece on how WaPo sabotaged Sanders during the primaries.

Wall Street Journal reporter Laura Meckler received a letter leaked to her from
DNC communications director Miranda and used it to write a hit piece on Sanders
during the primaries. Miranda used the same reporter to criticize Sanders in the
media over convention platform appointments.

The Associated Press was cited by the Clinton campaign as a publication in which
they could plant stories with friendly journalists Matt Lee and Bradley Klapper,
including discussions regarding the private email server scandal. Robby Mook's
assistant emailed fellow Clinton staff members asking what time would they
prefer the story be published by the AP. They also called the Democratic
primaries for Clinton before California even voted, citing anonymous
superdelegates.

MSNBC halted negative coverage of former DNC chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz
after she called the network's president, Phil Griffin, to complain. Two days
after Clinton campaign staff discussed how to attack Sanders on campaign finance
by citing a Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee (DSCC) retreat he attended
several months earlier, MSNBC reporter Alex Seitz-Wald wrote a Sanders hit piece
using the very same criticisms. Seitz-Wald, like many other pro-Clinton
journalists, started out at John Podesta's Center for American Progress.
Seitz-Wald also propagated the chair-throwing myth at the Nevada Democratic
Convention to discredit Sanders and his supporters. Meet the Press host Chuck
Todd held a private party for Jennifer Palmieri while she was working as the
Clinton campaign communications director.  MSNBC host Joy Reid regularly pushed
false narratives in order to help Clinton, especially in regards to WikiLeaks.
Rachel Maddow premiered ads from Clinton Super PACs on her show.

CNBC correspondent John Harwood emailed Clinton Podesta on a regular basis,
soliciting access in exchange for friendly coverage on Clinton.

Several prominent bloggers-MTV News' Jamil Smith, Guardian columnists Sady Doyle
and Jessica Valenti, Tech LadyMafia founder Aminatou Sow, America's Voice Gabe
Ortiz and Latino blogger Elianne Ramos who was later hired by the Clinton
campaign-were selected by Clinton campaign staff to attend a conference call in
which they could disseminate information they wanted the bloggers to propagate
"without our fingerprints."

Vox's editor in chief, Ezra Klein, was cited by Clinton campaign staff as an
attack dog they could use to push out a story they were putting together.

All these outlets and networks played significant roles in perpetuating false
narratives in favor of the Clinton campaign. This includes the "Bernie Bros"
myth, the whitewashing of the Sanders campaign, and adding superdelegates to
Democratic primary tallies, even though they don't cast their votes until the
Democratic National Convention.

The DNC and Clinton campaign manipulated mainstream media coverage to further
Clinton's candidacy, especially in the Democratic primaries.

Clinton's lack of press conferences during the primaries and general election
are symptomatic of her not willing to deal with any media not entirely
subservient to the campaign's political agenda. As the mainstream media offers
more excuses to avoid responsibility and accountability for this election, major
press reforms are needed. Admitting the vast amounts of unethical, pro-Clinton
coverage among media elites would be a good start.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             317 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Electoral College Delusions Still Plague Clinton Partisans

BYLINE: Michael Sainato

LENGTH: 925 words


Some Hillary Clinton supporters are really starting to lose it in response to
Donald Trump beating their candidate in the presidential election.

Trump hinted throughout the election that he would lose because the thing was
rigged. Democrats were indignant and alarmed by this sentiment. "Donald Trump
refused to say that he'd respect the results of this election. That's a direct
threat to democracy" Clinton tweeted in October. But post-election, many Clinton
partisans are pushing to challenge the election results.

Vocalizing disdain for a Trump presidency is one thing. But the #AuditTheVote
movement and movement to push the electors of the electoral college to switch
their votes to Clinton goes beyond protesting-so much for the Michelle Obama's
rhetoric "when they go low, we go high."

A Washington Post-ABC News poll that found 33 percent of Clinton supporters
didn't believe Trump was the legitimate winner of the election. Without any
citing any evidence, Op-Eds, tweets, and sweeping speculation has been cited
from Clinton supporters claiming that the Russian hackers who allegedly obtained
emails from the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and Clinton campaign chair
John Podesta could have also hacked voting machines in order to tip the election
in Trump's favor.

"Maybe all the polls weren't wrong. Maybe Russian hackers didn't stop with the
DNC," tweeted NBC Legal Analyst Lisa Bloom.

New York Times Clinton drone Paul Krugmandoubled down on the conspiracy theory
that FBI Director James Comey had a secret alliance with Russian leader Vladimir
Putin to help influence the election in favor of Trump.

Sarah Kendzior, a blogger for Blue Nation Review, a Clinton propaganda site
owned by David Brock, has repeatedly claimed with popular support on Twitter
that voting machines were hacked by Russia, without providing any actual
evidence. Kendzior fear mongered in an Op-Ed for Globe and Mail, and on her
Twitter account that Trump's presidency and its transition into the White House
are symptomatic of an authoritarian fascist regime transition. She has claimed
that CNN, The Associated Press and MSNBC have been compromised by this regime,
and that recent tweets from the CIA suggest either they are sending out "an SOS"
or "they're on board with the new reich."

Petitions surfaced from Clinton supporters to forgo an election audit, and
petition electors of the electoral college to cast their votes for Clinton in
what can only be described as a coup attempt. One such petition reached nearly
20,000 signatures before MoveOn.org removed it from their website. A petition on
Change.org to do the same has reached over four million signatures. "We are
calling on the Electors to ignore their states' votes and cast their ballots for
Secretary Clinton," states the petition.

Andrea Chalupa-the sister of DNC research staffer Alexandra Chalupa-claimed on
social media, without any evidence, that despite Clinton conceding the election
to Trump, the voting results need to be audited to because Clinton couldn't have
lost-it must have been Russia. Chalupa hysterically tweeted to every politician
on Twitter to audit the vote because of Russia and claimed the TV show The
Americans, about two KGB spies living in America, is real.

Thousands of Clinton supporters have retweeted and share Chalupa's baseless
conspiracy theories. Yet these were likely the same Clinton supporters who told
Bernie Sanders fans to get over it when actual evidence surfaced that the DNC
rigged the primaries for Hillary; or when actual voter discrepancies occurred,
as when 126,000 voters were mysteriously purged from the rolls during the New
York Democratic primary. There was no outrage coming from these Clinton
supporters then. And to underline their lack of serious principles, they ignore
other injustices that don't benefit their pro-Clinton narratives, such as the
protests against the Dakota Access Pipeline.

These calls to audit the presidential election votes aren't based on a desire to
expand and protect democracy: They are attempts to delegitimize the election
results so Clinton can be president instead.

Democrats should start heeding the advice of Sanders instead of panicking and
making up stories. "When you lose the White House to the least popular candidate
in the history of America, when you lose the senate, when you lose the house,
and when two-thirds of governors in this country are Republicans, it is time for
a new direction in the Democratic Party," Sanders said during a speech on
November 17. The Clinton campaign depended on using Trump to scare voters into
supporting Clinton. This only worked in blue states to boost turnout, while
swing states that Obama had previously won switched support to Trump.

Instead of introspection and assuming responsibility for propping up a flawed,
scandal-ridden presidential candidate with unappealing centrist policies,
delusional Clinton supporters are reiterating the same damage-control tactics
and scapegoating they utilized throughout the 2016 presidential election.
Clinton wasn't cheated out of the presidency. The campaign's own staffers
attributed Clinton's loss to a combination of negligence and arrogance.
Democrats lost the election and failed to recoup majorities in both houses of
congress, while losing more seats in state legislatures across the country,
because they seek partnerships with corporations and wealthy donors instead of
with working and middle class Americans.

Disclosure: Donald Trump is the father-in-law of Jared Kushner, the publisher of
Observer Media.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             318 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

NYC Council Progressive Caucus Backs Keith Ellison for DNC Chair

BYLINE: Will Bredderman

LENGTH: 585 words


The City Council's dominant Progressive Caucus-led by Speaker Melissa
Mark-Viverito-announced their endorsement today of Minnesota Congressman Keith
Ellison for chairman of the Democratic National Committee.

As Democrats look to recover from a devastating Election Day, Ellison is vying
to lead the party against former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean and South Carolina
chairman Jaime Harrison. Ellison, the first Muslim-American ever elected to the
House of Representatives, has attracted the support of Sen. Charles Schumer and
Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, whom the congressman backed for the presidency in
defiance of most party leaders.

Now the Progressive Caucus, whose 19 members mostly though not unanimously
favored Hillary Clintonin the Democratic primary, has added its backing to the
Midwestern lawmaker's bid.

"The members of the Progressive Caucus Alliance are proud to add our voices to
those in support of Keith Ellison for Chair of the Democratic National
Committee," the group said in a press release today. "Congressman Ellison has
been a true progressive champion in Congress, and has demonstrated the grit and
tenacity that we'll need for the tough fights ahead."

Dean, who headed the DNC from 2005 to 2009, has asserted that the organization
needs a chair who can attend to party business full-time. The Democrats have
suffered severe setbacks over the past eight years under chairs who held elected
office, most recently the controversial Florida Congresswoman Debbie
Wasserman-Schultz.

The former Green Mountain State governor and 2004 presidential candidate has
highlighted the success of his "50-state strategy" in yielding the first
Democratic majority in Congress in 22 years in 2006.

More important for the Council's Progressive Caucus, however, are Ellison's two
turns as keynote speaker at "Local Progress" gatherings of low-level
left-leaning officials. This, the caucus asserted, showed an emphasis on
building a party bench at the most basic levels of government.

"As municipal legislators, we are especially enthusiastic about his emphasis on
progressive politics at the local level," their statement said. "Congressman
Ellison recognizes that progressive politics matter at the most local of levels:
to families seeking a job that pays the bills, to kids from low-income families
hoping to go to college, and to parents worried about whether their kids of
color will be treated fairly by the criminal justice system. He knows the
difference it makes to unite action at the local, state and federal levels, and
why it is important to build strength among City Council members and other local
elected officials."

Ellison's bid also comes as many Democrats, including Schumer, have argued the
party needs to increase outreach to blue collar white voters in depressed
industrial areas. But the Progressive Caucus insisted the "incredibly divisive
national atmosphere" President-elect Donald Trump's incendiary anti-immigrant
rhetoric has created demands party leadership that will stick up for minorities.

"We need a leader who will stand firm against hatred, bias, discrimination,
anti-Semitism, Islamophobia," the Council members' release said. "The members of
the Progressive Caucus Alliance know that Congressman Ellison will be that type
of leader, and we enthusiastically support his bid for Chair of the DNC."

"We are enthusiastic that he will be [the] first Muslim-American DNC Chair," it
added.

Disclosure: Donald Trump is the father-in-law of Jared Kushner, the publisher of
Observer Media.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             319 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Stakes for DNC Class Action Lawsuit Increase After Clinton Defeat

BYLINE: Michael Sainato

LENGTH: 731 words


Over the past several weeks, the lawyers who filed a class action lawsuit in
federal court against the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and former chair
Debbie Wasserman Schultz for rigging the primaries have awaited a ruling on the
DNC lawyers' motion to dismiss the suit. But Bernie Sanders supporters' claim
that the DNC and Wasserman Schultz violated their charter and undermined
democracy to ensure Hillary Clinton's coronation was only strengthened after
Clinton lost to one of the most unpopular presidential candidates in recent
history.

The narrative propagated by the DNC, Wasserman Schultz and the mainstream media
that Democrats were completely united behind Clinton turned out to be a myth.
Based on exit polls, 9 percent of Democrats voted for Trump. Thousands of
Sanders supporters wrote their man in as their choice for president. In Vermont,
Sanders placed third as a write-in candidate, with over 18,000 voters. Though
the write-ins for Sanders and votes for Green Party candidate Jill Stein didn't
add up to enough to sway the election for Clinton, voter turnout in counties and
swing states previously won by Barack Obama are a result of the overconfidence
and hubris of the Clinton campaign, who assumed that it was "her turn."

The class action lawsuit against Wasserman Schultz and the DNC presents an
opportunity for Sanders supporters to receive vindication and recognition that
their candidate's path to the nomination was subverted in favor of the
Democratic Party establishment's preferred candidate.

The data strongly suggests Sanders would have won in a general election against
Trump, as his economic populism rivaled Trump's. Meanwhile Clinton's focus on
donors and establishment support backfired in states where resentment toward the
status quo has increased under Obama's presidency. Millennials, which Obama
depended upon to turn out and vote for him in 2008 and 2012, didn't show up for
Clinton at the polls. They were Sanders' strongest demographic of supporters.
And Sanders' grassroots campaign and core of volunteers on the ground could have
challenged the regions Clinton lost due to a combination of overconfidence and
negligence (according to her own staff). Obama won these place due to a similar
grassroots campaign effort.

Clinton embraced the reality TV qualities of Trump's campaign, such as the feud
between Mark Cuban and Trump. Trump was a billionaire, so she would get her own
who backed her-and hated Trump. Turns out that Cuban-Trump feud was inauthentic,
as Cuban was recently seen meeting with Trump's Chief Strategist Stephen Bannon.
The focus on Trump's squabbles and crazy speeches lessened the critical eye on
Clinton; Sanders would have tried to steer focus towards the important issues.

After Clinton partisans denigrated Sanders for being "ridiculous" for refusing
to fall in line behind Clinton, and asserting the primaries were rigged, Clinton
supporters are now pushing for a movement to audit the election results in three
swing states. Sanders supporters have actual evidence to corroborate their
claims. The New York Times' Nate Cohn has debunked many of the arguments driving
the Clinton supporters' claims that the general election results don't add up.

WikiLeaks emails revealed Wasserman Schultz used her position to develop the DNC
into an extension of the Clinton campaign, while staff worked behind the scenes
to attack Sanders. Emails from Clinton campaign chair John Podesta revealed they

 had a say in DNC staff decision-making, helped plan the Democratic National
Convention, and developed strategies for the DNC to implement for the sole
benefit of Clinton. DNC interim chair Donna Brazile was exposed as having helped
the Clinton campaign cheat before CNN debates.

Documents released by hacker Guccifer 2.0 revealed that Clinton was referred to
as the nominee, and her victory was treated as a certainty in DNC documents
before the primaries even began. The DNC and Wasserman Schultz, obligated to
neutrality per the DNC charter, violated that neutrality, acting as a
performance-enhancing drug that boosted Clinton's candidacy in the primaries.
Whether Clinton would have won anyway can only be speculated, but the evidence
that democracy was subverted in order to help Clinton beat Sanders is
overwhelming.

Disclosure: Donald Trump is the father-in-law of Jared Kushner, the publisher of
Observer Media.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             320 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

NJ Politics Digest: Just What Did Christie's Efforts For Trump Cost You?

BYLINE: Steve Cronin

LENGTH: 791 words


Happy Thanksgiving, and one reason that New Jersey taxpayers might be giving
thanks is that Gov. Chris Christie is no longer involved in a presidential race.
An investigation by The Record has determined the governor's out-of-state
efforts on behalf of president-elect Donald Trump this summer cost taxpayers
more than $80,000. Other good news includes the possibility of more than $67
million in state funds going toward open space and recreational projects. Add to
that new gun control legislation, the chance of a New Jersey native landing a
spot as Commerce Secretary and a host of municipal news, and there is a lot to
keep politics fans occupied as they wait on their turkey dinners today.

Quote of the Day: "All six of us, we're ready to go," - Gov. Chris Christie, on
his family's plans to spend Thanksgiving in Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones'
accommodations at the Cowboys vs. Washington Redskins game.

Governor Christie's security detail cost taxpayers more than $80,000 this summer
as the governor worked and campaigned for Donald Trump, according to documents
obtained by The Record. Dustin Racioppi, The Record Read more

Chris Christie gets bipartisan gun bill he might like Republican Gov. Chris
Christie in the last year has twice vetoed bills from Democrats requiring
domestic violence offenders to surrender firearms. Bob Jordan, Asbury Park Press
Read more

Funding For Open Space Projects

For the first time in two years, the state is looking to award up to $67.4
million in funding to municipalities, counties, and nonprofit groups to acquire
open space and develop recreational projects. Tom Johnson, NJSpotlight Read more

Kellyanne Conway: 'I'm humbled by the opportunities I have' Kellyanne Conway is
the woman who broke the political glass ceiling. Conway's the first woman to
manage a successful presidential campaign. NJ101.5 Read more

ACA's future is in doubt, but Rutgers remains confident in new health care
training program Though the future of the Affordable Care Act is currently
unknown following the presidential election, Rutgers University is staying the
course in the rollout of a Certified Health Care Manager program - which the
university is touting as the first of its kind in the country. Anjalee Khemlani,
NJBiz Read more

NJ Native Wilbur Ross Expected to Be Named Commerce Secretary by Donald Trump
President-elect Donald Trump is expected to select Wilbur Ross Jr. to head the
Commerce Department, said two people familiar with the deliberations, a decision
that would put a billionaire investor known for buying up failed companies in
charge of the agency tasked with cultivating economic growth. Wall Street
Journal Read more

Paterson cops accrue over 47,000 hours of comp time With crime on the rise and
the police overtime budget cut in half, the Paterson Police Department has
relied increasingly on comp time as payment for detectives who work long hours
on homicides and shootings, city and law enforcement officials said. Joe
Malinconico, Paterson Press Read more

Paterson moves ahead on $10.7M in debt for sewers, lawsuits After rejecting a
package of bond proposals that would have increased Paterson's debt by about
$13.5 million, the City Council changed course on Tuesday night and gave
preliminary approval to the two most costly measures. Joe Malinconico, Paterson
Press Read more

Jared Kushner's company settles with Pier Village tenant Jared Kushner has
emerged as a giant force in making his father-in-law, Donald J. Trump, president
of the United States, a feat so impressive that he may have a new role: Middle
East peacekeeper, according to The New York Times editors and reporters who
tweeted portions of an interview with Trump at on Tuesday. Michael L. Diamond
and Dan Radel, Asbury Park Press Read more

3 priorities for Democrats on new Red Bank council Red Bank's Republican
majority on the borough council - the first in decades - ended up lasting just a
year. On Election Day, voters in town resoundingly chose two Democrats for the
dais. Asbury Park Press Read more

Suspended Wyckoff police chief to retire Former Wyckoff police chief Benjamin
Fox, who was suspended in August, has resigned from the department and will
retire effective Dec. 1, according to an agreement released by township
officials Wednesday. Marsha A. Stoltz, The Record Read more

Court sides with Princeton U. in age discrimination suit A former construction
manager who sued Princeton University over age discrimination claims lost an
appeal Wednesday. Anna Merriman, NJ.com Read more

Perth Amboy agrees to pay $150K in sexual harassment lawsuit The city will pay a
$150,000 settlement to a secretary who had filed a lawsuit accusing the city's
former police chief of sexual harassment. Spencer Kent, NJ.com Read more


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             321 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Nutley Commissioner Rogers at the Edge of a 2017 NJ Guv Run

BYLINE: Max Pizarro

LENGTH: 580 words


If you want to be governor and you don't have the early backing of the party
machines, it might help to be the civilian alter ego of Captain America, which
happens to be the case for the aptly named Steve Rogers.

Nutley Commissioner Rogers wants to run for governor of New Jersey and is now
sizing up the terrain  in advance of an announcement in the coming weeks. A
military man who served his country in naval intelligence and a cop who worked
for the Donald J. Trump presidential campaign as a security expert, the
Republican told PolitickerNJ that he thinks the timing is right in the wake of
Trump's unconventional national victory earlier this month. He also sees
problems in the state that he believes to be uniquely qualified to solve.

"I want to help New Jersey's city's," said Rogers, who was first elected to
local office in 2012 and reelected this year. "The key to turning the state
around is to bring economic development and jobs to our cities." If elected
governor, Rogers - who serves as commander of Nutley's detective bureau - said
he would take a no-nonsense attitude into removing the red tape bureaucracies
that have put New Jersey's urban economy in a stranglehold.

Tapinto first had the story about the incipient statewide candidacy of Rogers,
who earlier this week reached out to all of the county Republican Party chairs
in the state to express to them his interest in sitting down to discuss his
plans.

Rogers would be the only candidate in the contest - in either party - with
significant military experience.

His bio on his town's website reads like a modern day retelling of Homer's
Odyssey adventure. He served in the Air Force during the Vietnam War era, then
worked as a police officer in East Orange. In 1976, he joined the Nutley PD.

Here's more:

Commissioner Rogers enlisted in the U.S. Navy Reserves in 1981 - and studied
U.S. military intelligence and other national security subjects at many schools
including the U.S. Naval War College Newport, R.I.  In the mid 1980's he was
assigned to brief U.S. military personnel on military matters related to the
Soviet Union and other nations hostile to the United States.

Soon after the terrorist's attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001,
Commissioner Rogers was recalled to active duty and assigned to the U.S. Navy
Office of Naval Intelligence in Norfolk, Virginia. He was promoted to the rank
of Lt. Commander and assigned to the U.S. Northern Command as a Senior Naval
Intelligence Officer for the FBI National Joint Terrorism Task Force in
Washington D.C.

A buttoned up naval officer who wants to run a substantive statewide campaign
for governor, Rogers told PolitickerNJ, "You will never hear me say anything
negative about another candidate. I will criticize people's policies, but them
personally."

So far, Assemblyman Jack Ciattarelli (R-Hillsborugh) and Ocean County
businessman Joe Rullo are the only formally declared Republican candidates in
the 2017 governor's contest in New Jersey. Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno is
expected to announce soon. Comedian Joe Piscopo has also expressed interest in
running.

On the Democratic side, former U.S. Ambassador to Germany Phil Murphy,
Assemblyman John Wisniewski (D-Sayreville), and former Clinton Undersecretary of
the Treasury Jim Johnson have all declared. Tom Byrne, son of former Governor
Brendan Byrne, is mulling. So is state Senator Ray Lesniak (D-Elizabeth).

The Green Party is putting up the Rev. Seth Kaper-Dale of Highland Park.


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             322 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Clinton Distraction Circus Hits Panic Mode Over Russia And 'Fake News'

BYLINE: Michael Sainato

LENGTH: 754 words


The end of the presidential election hasn't stopped the Clinton Campaign from
pushing pro-Clinton puff pieces in the mainstream media.

On November 24, Politicopublished an article about a mom and her 6-year-old son
placing about 15 "thank-you" signs on Hillary Clinton's front lawn, a
continuation of the attempt to humanize Clinton after the election, similar to
the story about the mom who ran into Hillary Clinton hiking just days after the
election. Clinton partisans are using a variety of distractions to avoid any
reforms to the Democratic Party that would include admitting their disconnect
with working class Americans, and relinquishing their political power and
privilege.

Meanwhile, Clinton supporters and Jill Stein, who was vilified by Clinton
supporters as a Putin ally during the election, are pushing for a recount in
Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania. Stein has raised nearly $5 million-more
than her entire campaign raised during the election-to fund the recount efforts
over claims Trump won because Russia may have somehow hacked the election
results. New York Times' Nate Cohn attributed irregularities to machines and
paper ballots used in the state. "Demographics, not hacking, explain the
election results," notes an article published by FiveThirtyEight. Clinton
partisans have focused on perpetuating false narratives as a damage control
effort for Clinton and the Democratic Party establishment, rather than
introspection on how the Democratic Party could veer away from corporate
influence to win back the working and middle class voters lost to Trump and
apathy.

Panic over "Fake news" is being manufactured by Clinton partisans as another
attempt by mainstream media outlets to avoid accountability and responsibility
in elevatingDonald Trump, and improving their coverage to better reflect the
issues Americans actually care about.

"The amount of coverage, say, on television news given to climate change, given
to the decline of the middle class, given to health care, given to unemployment,
given to poverty is minimal, minimal, a fraction, a fraction, compared to the
amount that talks about political gossip, who's going to run in 2020, 2090,
2400-all kinds of personality things," said Bernie Sanders in a recent interview
with GQ. "Campaigns should not be about candidates; they should be about the
needs of the people."

A part of this "fake news" narrative as merged with the Russian propaganda
narrative. The Washington Postpublished an article on November 25 in which they
interviewed the Executive Director of a new website, PropOrNot, who claimed,
without any supporting evidence or describing their methodology, that the
Russian Government circulated pro-Trump articles before the election. The
blacklist the site has come up with include progressive outlets Counter Punch,
Truth-Out (which Clinton Campaign Chair John Podesta received newsletters
through his email from), Truth-Dig, and others, alleging the journalists at
these publications committed treason. Based on these publications making the
list, PropOrNot's criteria for Russian propaganda includes any dissent to
corporate mainstream media.

"We strongly suspect that some of the individuals involved have violated the
Espionage Act, the Foreign Agent Registration Act, and other related laws, but
determining that is up to the FBI and the DOJ," notes the PropOrNot website.
InfoWars and other conservative media outlets were cited as well. Though these
sites often publish inaccurate stories, the mainstream media does as well (the
Washington Post published an allegation that Russia poisoned Hillary Clinton so
she collapsed on 9/11), and these sites are based in the United States, funded
U.S. sources, and many of them pre-date Putin.

As a Clinton Campaign strategy, blaming Russia didn't work in the general
election, but now these same Clinton propagandists are pushing anti-Russia
narratives as a smokescreen to push false narratives, without having to provide
actual evidence to substantiate their claims. The enigma of Russia provides a
convenient source for these conclusions. If conspiracy theories support
pro-Clinton neo-liberal agendas,  and involve Russia or Putin, they are being
treated as factual by Clinton partisans. Clinton lost due to numerous factors,
including an unprecedented focus on courting billionaire and millionaire donors
to reach a fundraising goal of $1 billion, a lack of grassroots campaigning, and
a disconnect worsened by hubris and negligence with working and middle class
voters.


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             323 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Clinton Partisans Pushing for Recount Still Ignore Rigged Primaries

BYLINE: Michael Sainato

LENGTH: 1241 words


Though Bernie Sanders, the White House and an investigative journalism outlet
that conducted extensive monitoring of the presidential election across the
country argued that a recount would not change anything, the Clinton campaign
announced on November 26 it would be joining Green Party candidate Jill Stein's
effort to make sure that Donald Trump is really the president-elect.

The recount effort in states Trump won by a small margin of victory has ignited
controversy, as Clinton supporters who initially blamed Stein for Hillary
Clinton losing are now embracing her efforts.

We had 1,100 people monitoring the vote on Election Day. We saw no evidence the
election was "rigged" no matter what Stein or Trump say. /1 - ProPublica
(@ProPublica) November 27, 2016

But the sudden focus on a general election recount from Clinton partisans is
hypocritical, given the Democratic Party establishment has yet to acknowledge
the broken rules and voting discrepancies the Democratic National Committee
(DNC) and Clinton campaign ignored throughout the Democratic primaries.

Election Justice USA-a nonpartisan coalition of statisticians, attorneys and
activists advocating for voting rights-discovered voting irregularities and
suppression at work throughout the Democratic primaries helped Clinton win. They
related these in a 100-page report released on July 25.

"Election Justice USA has established an upper estimate of 184 pledged delegates
lost by Senator Bernie Sanders as a consequence of specific irregularities and
instances of fraud," the report read. "Adding these delegates to Senator
Sanders' pledged delegate total and subtracting the same number from Hillary
Clinton's total would more than erase the 359 pledged delegate gap between the
two candidates." The organization came to these conclusions by analyzing exit
polling data and statistical analysis by precinct size. "Even small changes in
vote shares in critical states like Massachusetts and New York could have
substantially changed the media narrative surrounding the primaries in ways that
would likely have had far reaching consequences for Senator Sanders' campaign."

The report found Clinton's vote share increased proportionally to the increase
in precinct size. It also cited exit poll data that matched the results in
Republican primaries in several states but differed greatly in the Democratic
primaries.

"As a statistician, I find the results of the 2016 primary voting unusual. In
fact, I found the patterns unexpected [and even] suspicious. There is a greater
degree of smoothness in the outcomes than the roughness that is typical in
raw/real data," wrote Dr. Fritz Scheuren, a professor of statistics at George
Washington University and the 100th President of the American Statistical
Association, in a separate report by Election Justice USA on the accuracy and
security of electronic U.S. voting equipment. The report adds, "the difference
between the reported totals, and our best estimate of the actual vote, varies
considerably from state to state. However these differences are
significant-sometimes more than 10 percent-and could change the outcome of the
election."

Voter suppression and irregularities were rampant in key states that heavily
influenced the outcome of the Democratic primaries. But the only outcry over
these disparities came from Sanders supporters.

During the New York Democratic primaries, 126,000 voters were inexplicably
purged from voter rolls, their voices denied a say in the race between Clinton
and Sanders. Already a closed primary, in which independent voters had to switch
their party affiliation to Democrat six months in advance to participate, this
purge shut out thousands more. No early voting options were offered before the
primary either, forcing those who wanted to vote to stand in long lines around
New York City during a workday, resulting in one of the worst voter turnouts of
any state.

In Arizona, polling sites in Maricopa, the state's most populous county, were
reduced from 200 in 2012 to only 60 in 2016. In contrast, voter turnout from
2012 exploded from 300,000 voters to 800,000 in 2016. The result was an average
of several hours of waiting at many sites, likely pushing out thousands of other
voters who couldn't afford to spare the time to vote that day. Maricopa County
Recorder Helen Purcell eventually accepted the blame for the long lines, after
initially blaming voters, yet refused to submit to calls for her resignation.

On the eve of the California primary, the Associated Press formally called the
Democratic primaries for Clinton, essentially rendering the state's contest
meaningless. Clinton could afford to marginally lose California and still win
the Democratic primary. A Sanders victory in California would have been a morale
booster for the campaign.

Though California held a semi-open Democratic primary, rules were put in place
to make it much more difficult for an independent to vote. Independents were not
allowed to use the same ballot to vote as Democrats, and if they failed to
obtain the mandatory crossover ballot, their vote was nullified. In 2011,
California easily passed Proposition 14, which ensured every voter, no matter
what party they affiliated with, received the same ballot, but presidential
elections for some reason were exempt.

As the longest-serving Independent in the history of Congress, Sanders was put
at a disadvantage in the Democratic primaries because several states that held
closed primaries shut out many of his supporters from participating. Both
parties should open their primaries to independent voters, as they are the
largest voter demographic in the country, and their support is needed for any
candidate to win a general election.

In tandem with undemocratic rules meant to keep independent voters out of the
primaries, the Democratic Party did a lousy job-likely deliberately-in
increasing their own party's voter registration. New York Daily News journalist
Shaun King attributed the low turnouts to the lack of voter registration drives
run by the Democratic Party leadership. Traditionally, Democrats frequently held
voter drives at college campuses across the country, as they are prime grounds
to attract new supporters to the party. Because the new voters would likely be
joining many millennials in supporting Sanders, the Democratic Party leadership
skipped such efforts this year.

In contrast, Republicans saw record voter turnouts in their respective
primaries, while turnout for Democrats decreased. For Clinton's coronation to go
as planned, the Democratic Party suspended its usual efforts to invest in voter
registration drives, and target vast populations of unregistered voters likely
to support Democrats over Republicans. It ending up costing them the general
election, as voter turnout for Clinton was significantly lower than the high
turnout that helped Barack Obama win in 2008 and 2012.

Some blue states have taken the initiative to expand democracy and set their own
precedent for voting rights. Oregon enacted automatic voter registration, and
Maine ranked choice voting. But several other Democratic Party strongholds have
failed to move forward similar initiatives. If Democrats are serious about
election reform, they need to focus on moving forward in states where they have
the political majority to pass legislation, rather than pouring their resources
into political theater for a recount that won't change anything.


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             324 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

The Left's Miraculous Change of Heart on Accepting Election Results

BYLINE: Ashe Schow

LENGTH: 1046 words


Before the election on Nov. 8, Democrats chastised Donald Trump for saying he
would "totally accept the results of this great and historic presidential
election... if I win."

CNN's Jeremy Diamond, in an article posted in "politics" - not "opinion," -
called Trump's words "a caveat that threatens to cast unprecedented doubt on the
legitimacy of the electoral process."

Diamond was not alone in his claim. Clinton herself repeatedly claimed Trump was
"threatening our democracy" by refusing to accept the results of the election.
At her rallies after Trump's remarks, Clinton said Trump's refusal to say he'd
instantaneously accept the results was a "direct threat to our democracy" and
chastised him for claiming the system was "rigged."

She also claimed at a rally in Philadelphia, Pa. just weeks before the election
that the U.S. always had a "peaceful transfer of power," which was "the
difference between the rule of law and the rule of strong men."

This claim was also tweeted from her official Twitter account, again saying
Trump "refused to say that he'd respect the results of this election" and that
it was a "direct threat to our democracy."

But after the election-when Clinton lost-the media and Democrats completely
changed their tune. Clinton had derided Trump for suggesting he wouldn't
concede, yet we later learned that Clinton herself didn't want to concede, but
was urged to do so by President Barack Obama.

On the night of the election, after Trump passed 270 electoral votes and secured
the presidency, Clinton refused to address her supporters at her "victory"
party. Her supporters, distraught and crying after waiting at the venue for
hours, were instead subjected to Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. Podesta
said there would be no comment until all the votes were counted.

Shortly after, Trump delivered his victory speech and Clinton had called him to
concede.

That call was apparently at the behest of Obama, according to Hill senior White
House correspondent Amie Parnes and Roll Call columnist Jonathan Allen.

After the dust had settled on election night, many on the Left began arguing
that Clinton had truly won the election because she won the popular vote, and
suggested the Electoral College be eliminated. They failed to realize (or simply
ignored) that Clinton's popular vote lead came almost entirely from California,
a populous state and Democratic stronghold.

Neither Trump nor Clinton campaigned for the popular vote, because that's not
how our elections work or should work. Fifty percent of the U.S. population
resides in just a few major cities. A popular vote would give those cities near
total control over deciding the president and forcing their urban priorities
onto suburban and rural voters. The Electoral College gives those outside of the
big city a real voice.

Also, Clinton and Trump campaigned in the states most likely to swing. Clinton
only needed to go to California for celebrity and mega-donor fundraisers, not to
ensure the state would vote for her. If she were running for the popular vote,
she could have campaigned there just to increase her vote total. As it stands
now, she only needed enough votes in any given state to win that state, so
essentially, a U.S. presidential election is made up of more than 50 elections
(due to some states that split electoral votes). Trump could have campaigned
more in Texas to secure more votes, but it was a waste of his time-just as
campaigning more in California was a waste of Clinton's time.

In reality, we don't know who actually won the popular vote because the
candidates didn't campaign for it.

This hasn't stopped Democrats from attempting to overturn the election through
recounts. Just as Al Gore wanted certain counties in Florida recounted in 2000
because he thought he should have won them, Democrats-led by Green Party
candidate Jill Stein-now want three states that usually vote for Democrats but
voted for Trump in 2016 to be recounted.

Stein is attempting to raise millions to pay for recounts in Michigan,
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, despite there being no evidence of any election
"rigging."

Clinton has now joined in this effort. What was that about refusing to accept
election results being a "threat to democracy?"

Now the Left is claiming Russia interfered with the U.S. election and rigged the
results. So, they rigged the election but didn't give Trump the popular vote?
Seems either incredibly specific or completely ridiculous.

The Clinton campaign even admitted there was no "actionable evidence" of vote
hacking, but are still going along with the recount because their supporters-the
same ones who mocked Trump for suggesting the election was "rigged"-now believe
Russia hacked the election.

Lost in all of this is the danger to the Democratic Party if this recount
continues. Stein, a Green Party candidate whose views align more with extreme
Leftists than anyone on the Right, is raising money and her and her party's
profile. We won't know how much of the money will actually go to the recount
effort until it's actually underway.

Stein initially asked for $2.5 million, but raised that amount to $7 million
when donations poured in, citing filing fees and massive lawyer fees. Fine print
on her website says they cannot guarantee a recount will actually occur, and
that any money left will go toward "election integrity efforts and to promote
voting system reform."

Trump has called the recount effort "sad." He's absolutely right. These three
states were chosen because Trump won and they traditionally vote Democrat. In
Michigan, which has yet to be officially called, Trump won by 11,000 votes, a
margin of 0.2 percent. In 2012, Obama won the state with a 9.5 percent margin.
Rather than assessing how they could lose the state in the past four years to
Trump, Democrats have decided to eschew any soul searching and instead insist
they only lost the state because of hacking.

Trump won Wisconsin by 22,000 votes and Pennsylvania by 68,000 votes, yet that
is too close for Democrats.

I can only imagine what the Left and the media would be saying if Trump had lost
and tried to orchestrate a recount. Remember, it's only a problem when the Right
does it.

Disclosure: Donald Trump is the father-in-law of Jared Kushner, the publisher of
Observer Media.


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             325 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               New York Observer

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Thanksgiving Leftovers (TUMS Not Included!)

BYLINE: Jay Lassiter

LENGTH: 1091 words


Cherrry Hill - It was a week filled with childish name-calling, petty
recriminations, and depraved levels of self-indulgence. In other words, same
old-same old. If you're anything like me, you're still somehow ready to let your
belt out a notch (or two) and feast on some good political dish.

So here you go.

Lists, Lists, Lists

PolitickerNJ's annual Power List dropped earlier this month to its usual
fanfare. Actually it came a day later this year which left many of y'all rapt
and quivering with anticipation. But it was worth the wait. And judging from my
teeming inbox, y'all had a lot of strong opinions about the results, as usual.

We wouldn't have it any other way.

Before I go on, a quick shoutout to my editor-in-chief Max Pizarro who puts his
heart and soul into the year-end finale and (especially) our Power List. Max got
the Power List pretty much spot-on this year. Sure, I might have rearranged a
few chairs and added a name (or three) but this year's list came out on point.

Curious who I'd invite?

U.S. District Court Judge Susan D. Wigenton for starters. She's the Bridgegate
judge. I'd add WNYC's Matt Katz into the mix. His multimedia Bridgegate
reportage remains second to none. Finally, I'd include Jenny Davis who's the
real brains and muscle behind Phil Murphy's lavishly-funded run for Governor. On
a campaign quite replete with overpaid show horses, Jenny Davis distinguishes
herself as a workhorse whose goal is success for her team as opposed to praise
and recognition. Frankly, too many women are professionally modest like that.
Perhaps that helps explain why women remain underrepresented in NJ politics.

Big Mouth

After his embarrassing White House bid and then an unceremonious dismissal from
the Trump campaign, Chris Christie is back in NJ.

And he's really, really cranky.

Maybe Christie's smarting about his abysmal 19% approval rating. Perhaps he's
preoccupied with WTF he's supposed to tell us in his upcoming State of the State
address. Whatever it is, our Governor is back home and his insult game is
stronger than ever.

Case in point: Senator Raymond Lesniak. Shortly after Lesniak called for a
special prosecutor to examine what really went over at the Port Authority,
Christie went on the attack. Lesniak was deemed "crazy," "lunatic," "liar," and
"quack" by Christie simply for saying what's on everybody's mind.

Senator Loretta Weinberg, herself an enduring target of Christie's over-ripe
invective, quickly ran interference.

"Ray Lesniak was my co-prime sponsor on marriage equality," Weinberg shot back
on Facebook. "He is the author of landmark legislation against animal cruelty.
He was celebrated worldwide for his legislation which ended capital punishment
in New Jersey.. I guess by Christie's standards that makes him "crazy". Welcome
to the club Ray. We are all proud of our membership here."

Senator Lesniak didn't call for a special prosecutor to investigate Gov.
Christie for kicks. Rather, it's because this administration used the busiest
bridge on earth as a weapon to punish its political rivals. Chris Christie wants
Bridgegate to go away. But dozens of lingering questions remain about his real
role in a ghastly conspiracy clearly designed to enhance Christie's own future
prospects.

AmiRight?

Currie Favor

There's much to like about NJ-DSC chairman John Currie. But not the sharp turn
he's apparently taken directly up Phil Murphy's posterior. I suspect many
rank-and-file democrats would agree, especially Bernie Sanders types still
fuming from our national democratic party's big, fat, greedy, greasy, thumb
tipping the scale for Hillary Clinton in the recent democratic presidential
primary.

The NJ-DSC is for all democrats in the state, even those who aren't in a
position to make John Currie's goddaughter, Passaic assemblywoman Shavodna
Sumter NJ's next Lt. Governor.

(Ahem)

When Assemblyman John Wisniewski announced his own long-shot run for governor,
Chairman Currie sent out a supremely bitchy email blast to decry Wiz' temerity.
Currie opened his missive with a feigned welcome to any and all comers when
preceded to personally insult Wiz for taking the plunge.

Called Wiz a failure.

Wiz and I don't always see eye-to-eye, but he's still the Democrat who drew
first blood on Bridgegate. That's pretty legendary in my book. Oh and btw,
didn't Wiz also give Dems a more favorable legislative map after the last
redistricting?

In any event, it's awfully disappointing for Chairman Currie to decry the
Governor while also emulating Christie's boorish name-calling tactics in the
very same email.

And for whatever it's worth, regardless how qualified Assemblywoman Sumter might
be, the primary reason she's on the shortlist to be Murphy's LG is 1) she's the
Chairman's goddaughter and 2) because she's from Passaic where Currie,
curiously, remains county chair in addition to his statewide (double) duties.

Currie probably won't resign his county post regardless how increasingly
unseemly this all appears and that's too bad. But he should. Failure to do so
will only heighten the perception that Currie is hoarding large bits of Murphy's
endless largess for himself, his county, and his own.

And that's truly the last thing NJ democrats need right now.

Double Dip

When Trenton politicians finally outlawed the dark art of dual office holding a
decade or so ago, it didn't apply retroactively. This grandfathered in quite a
few pols, many of whom are still serving multiple masters.

Go figure.

We were all reminded of this sad vestige of shadier days when outgoing Passaic
(City) Mayor Alex Blanco pleaded guilty to a federal bribery charge last week.

Assemblyman Gary Schaer, the disgraced ex-Mayor's biggest cheerleader, also
(still) serves on Passaic (City) Council. Thanks to Assemblyman/Councilman
Schaer's stubborn, selfish delusion that he's worthy of both offices, the stench
of Blanco will linger in Passaic much longer than need be.

Unless of course Schaer resigns. Which he won't do. Because men like Gary Schaer
spend their entire careers convincing themselves how irreplaceable they are.

(Pro-Tip: We're all replaceable.)

The whole confluence of events in Passaic was a big multi-faceted reminder of
all that's wrong with NJ Politics.

Jay Lassiter is an iconoclast, tech savvy media artiste, street warrior for LGBT
liberty and marijuana reform, and an un-intimidated presence if the halls of
Trenton power as he aggressively pursues liberal causes. He's often at brunch
and always on Twitter @Jay_Lass, following possible future Senate Presidents
like Loretta Weinberg, Nick Scutari, or Joe Vitale.


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 The New York Observer, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             351 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 18, 2016, Friday

Jones: Charleston won't be `sanctuary city';
Illegal immigrants won't be shielded from deportation, capital's mayor says

BYLINE: Erin Beck, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 847 words


Mayor Danny Jones says Charleston won't protect undocumented immigrants from
deportation under the Donald Trump administration.

He said there have been no previous efforts and he doesn't plan in the future to
turn Charleston into a "sanctuary city."

Sanctuary cities offer protection to people who are in the country illegally.

"We don't want to pick that kind of fight, especially with this administration,"
Jones said Thursday.

While there is no universally accepted definition for a sanctuary city, the
Immigrant Legal Resource Center, which provides legal training and advocates for
the rights of immigrants, defines them as jurisdictions where police forces
don't comply with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's direction to detain
undocumented immigrants and turn them over to immigration enforcement officials.

In June, after 45 years as a Republican, Jones left the party, saying that, for
the first time in his life, he could not support the party's candidate for
president.

President-elect Trump has vowed to deport millions of immigrants in the country
illegally. During his campaign, he also said he would withdraw federal funds
from sanctuary cities.

Since the election, several major cities have vowed they will continue to uphold
their sanctuary status. In New York City, Mayor Bill De Blasio has said he
reminded Trump, who repeatedly proposed a ban on Muslim immigrants, that 900 New
York City police officers are Muslim.

The Gazette-Mail ran a story Wednesday about a rally in support of turning
Charleston into a "resettlement community." That effort referred to refugees
legally placed here, while sanctuary cities, in contrast, benefit a separate
group of people, undocumented immigrants. Several of the organizers working to
bring refugees to Charleston said they had no comment on Jones' remarks, saying
they are focused on refugees legally placed here, versus immigrants who are not
here legally.

Jones said the city has no plans to become a sanctuary city "because we obey
federal law and, even though I believe - I'm sure - there are undocumented folks
that are here, we're not going to sanction it."

He also said he believes that major cities that have spoken out are jeopardizing
federal funding.

"We're not on the radar screen, number one, to be a sanctuary city," he said.
"We're not a big urban area. We're not near the border."

Kemi Bello, spokeswoman for the Immigrant Legal Resource Center, said the center
tracks jurisdictions that don't comply with ICE detainers, which have been ruled
unconstitutional by multiple federal courts across the country, and are aware of
five statewide laws or policies, 365 county policies or ordinances, and about 37
city-level policies.

She noted that the term also has been used for jurisdictions with policies that
guide against inquiring into immigration status, offer city services without
respect to immigration status or decline to spend local resources assisting with
immigration enforcement.

"We think it's safe to say that cutting federal funding from all those places
would have a very large effect, with potentially drastic consequences to civil
society, should so many hundreds of communities have local public safety budgets
slashed, she said. "But it's not clear to me how the next administration would
define sanctuary,' nor whether their actions towards these cities/counties would
be legal.

"Policymakers in many of these jurisdictions may understandably be concerned
that the next administration may try to coerce them into spending their own
resources on federal immigration enforcement instead of prioritizing their own
local responsibilities. There's simultaneously a danger of blurring the line
between local and federal law enforcement such that immigrant communities will
refuse to engage with local police or authorities in ways that will reduce
public safety for everyone.

She said the center regularly advises law enforcement on the legal problems with
ICE detainers, and they have seen success in communities that don't comply with
the detainers.

"Their children are less likely to live in fear of losing a parent because of a
traffic stop, she said.

Adrian Smith, a spokesman for ICE in the Philadelphia field office, said the
Department of Homeland Security's current approach "focuses enforcement
resources on convicted criminals and individuals who threaten public safety and
national security, while also taking into account important community policing
needs.

"With the implementation of the Priority Enforcement Program in July 2015, many
law enforcement agencies, including some large jurisdictions, are now once again
cooperating with ICE, he said.

The ICE website states that immigration officials now focus on "targeting
individuals convicted of significant criminal offenses or who otherwise pose a
threat to public safety.

Prior to July 2015, ICE would issue detainers when "an immigration officer had
reason to believe the individual was removable, the website states.

Reach Erin Beck at erin.beck@wvgazettemail.com, 304-348-5163,
acebook.com/erinbeckwv or follow @erinbeckwv on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             352 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                          November 19, 2016, Saturday

Electoral college is for the wisdom-impaired

BYLINE: Joseph Wyatt

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 570 words


To the delight of the wisdom impaired we soon will have the first president
whose idea of "draining the swamp" in Washington is that top positions are
occupied by such "outsiders" as Rudy Giuliani, Newt Gingrich and RNC Chair
Reince Priebus!

Nevertheless, the mindless faithful rejoice, even knowing that their candidate
was endorsed by the KGB, the KKK, the FBI, the FOP and Chachi, as well as by
knowledge that their boy will be the first president who feels that using
nuclear bombs might be a good thing, the first who wants to kill women and
children simply because their husbands and fathers were terrorists, the first
who scammed people into thinking they were paying tuition at an actual
university, the first to brag about having been a crotch grabber and the first
to boast of barging in on teen girls while they were undressed. Classy.

I suppose it is God's will that we will have President Trump and we must endure
it. This is the man whose visual hallucinations convinced him that he witnessed
thousands of New Jersey Muslims cheering the fall of the Towers on 9-11. A man
who, like Hillary, was for the Iraq War before he was against it, a man who
successfully urged Russia to meddle in the election of our president, who raided
his own charitable foundation to purchase a $10,000 portrait of himself and who
announced to the gullible the shiny false hope of the return of myriad coal
mining jobs.

But, have no fear. To assuage any potential anxieties, we may embrace the cooing
of House speaker Paul Ryan who reminded us, "Donald Trump has one of the most
impressive histories we've ever seen." True, just not in a good way.

Unfortunately, this is the second time in the last five presidential elections,
and the fifth since the nation was founded, that the loser became president. In
2000, it was Al Gore who earned a half million more votes than George W. Bush.
As I write this four days after the polls closed and with votes still being
counted, Hillary had totaled 600,000 more votes (and rising) than Trump.

Which undermines one of the most sacred precepts of Americanism, one person-one
vote. Take it from the president-elect himself who, in the early hours of the
election four years ago had erroneously assumed that Mitt Romney was going to
win the popular vote but lose the electoral vote. Trump tweeted, "The electoral
college is a disaster for a democracy... Let's fight like hell and stop this
great and disgusting injustice!...This election is a total sham and a
travesty..." He knew, until he didn't.

It is past time for the electoral college to be done away with. It causes a loss
of faith in the process. It causes the rest of the world to conclude that we are
crazy. It causes presidential candidates to focus mainly on a just few swing
states to the exclusion of all the others which, at a minimum, depresses down
ballot voting in non-swing states.

There is talk of a state-by-state effort to alter their assignment of electoral
votes to the winner of the national popular vote (rather than to the winner of
each state's popular vote). The effect would be to elect our president by
popular vote, without the decades-long task of doing away with the electoral
college by constitutional amendment. It's time. And yes, I'd say the same if the
circumstances of the recent election were the reverse.

Joseph Wyatt is a Gazette-Mail contributing columnist and emeritus professor at
Marshall University.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             353 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 20, 2016, Sunday

A post-election partisan elegy

BYLINE: James A. White

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P7A

LENGTH: 792 words


Republican electoral successes, a large Electoral College victory while
maintaining control of both houses of Congress, shocked many. A complete look at
the data, however, suggests that the real story of the election is the continued
slow death of our two major parties.

The Trump victory in particular has broadly been interpreted as produced by
white, working-class voters without post-secondary degrees, a disenfranchised
silent majority frustrated with elite indifference and condescension that voted
to shake up the American political system. This explanation, however, fails to
incorporate all the relevant electoral facts, most notably turnout and
incumbency advantage.

While turnout increased in our state, it remained below the national average and
participation nationwide declined from 2012. As a percentage of the American
voting age population, turnout nationwide was lower than all but four
presidential elections since 1924. When all the votes are counted Trump's total
will trail not only Clinton's vote this year but also Romney's vote in 2012.

That means Trump's substantial Electoral College victory can be generally
attributed not to white, working-class voters who were newly mobilized from
either abstention or from the Democratic Party, but rather to the fact that
Clinton got only about 90 percent of the votes that Obama received in 2012.

Finally, the Republican Party lost seats in both the Senate and the House,
although not as many in either as generally expected. More significantly,
though, House incumbents, Republicans and Democrats alike, lost only five races
out of nearly 400. A real, establishment-swamping wave election would not have
Trump getting fewer votes than Romney or witness the return to the much-scorned
House of Representatives 99 percent of its incumbents.

Research explores why this campaign produced lower turnout in general, why the
Clinton campaign suffered disproportionately and why Congress will remain
virtually unchanged despite widespread public dissatisfaction with its
performance. Negative campaigns discourage voters and, when practiced by both
major parties, drive voters to actively abstain by voting third-party.

Between them, Clinton and Trump will get nearly seven million fewer votes than
Obama and Romney collectively received in 2012; about half of those missing
votes can be attributed to total abstention and the rest went to Johnson, Stein,
McMullin and others.

Voter attachment to parties has been undermined by the mass media and interest
groups. These alternate linkage institutions prefer conflict, spectacle and
single-issue stridency to collaboration and compromise, producing campaigns that
are as expensive and negative as they are vapid.

Many scholars lament the decline of parties, which serve important functions in
a democracy: organizing support for and opposition to policy proposals;
facilitating action in a federal system of separate branches sharing power that
was designed to impede such action; mobilizing mass participation; and taking
responsibility for successes, failures and compromises with the opposing party
even if taking responsibility entails incumbents losing elections.

The decline of parties has been forecast for a long time. A quarter-century ago,
the authors of Politics by Other Means associated with parties the acronym RIP
(revelation, investigation and prosecution) - activities driven by
interest-group funding and media sensationalism. A bit more recently, both
Thomas Frank's "What's the Matter with Kansas and Stanley Greenberg's "The Two
Americas predicted the movement of white working-class voters to the Republican
Party.

It looks like these class-based models of voting have been realized and that
demography now supersedes partisanship as the primary determinant of
presidential voting behavior, at least in our state. While our partisan voter
registration continues to favor the Democrats, electoral loyalty to the
Democratic candidate did not survive the Obama or Clinton campaigns, and it's
doubtful that habits discarded over three presidential election cycles will
reappear in 2020.

A replacement of partisanship with demography might lead to more intense and
competitive presidential campaigns, but it probably does not bode well for our
democracy and our ability to actually solve problems like low wages, crumbling
infrastructure, educational under-achievement, addiction and debt.

Although progress was often slow, America was more successful at solving these
problems when our parties were stronger. Feckless governance has been the price
of our corresponding collective civic disengagement. We can hope for better, but
that is not a reasonable expectation.

James A. White is a professor of political science at Concord University.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             354 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 21, 2016, Monday

Photographer captures images of immigrants from all nations

BYLINE: Denise Lavoie, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P14A

LENGTH: 569 words


BOSTON - It didn't take a divisive presidential election to get Mark Chester
interested in immigrants. Chester has been celebrating immigrants for years,
making it his mission to photograph two people from every nation.

Chester is well on his way. Since 2011, he's photographed people from 185 of the
world's 196 countries, all of them immigrants who have settled in Massachusetts,
a state he affectionately calls "a mini United Nations. All his subjects have
become naturalized U.S. citizens.

Chester's collection of more than 350 photographs have been exhibited around
Massachusetts - most recently at the Statehouse - and he is now putting them
into a book he plans to distribute free to schools and libraries around the
state.

He said his project, called "The Bay State: A Multicultural Landscape -
Photographs of New Americans, has taken on new meaning since Republican
President-elect Donald Trump said during his campaign he would build a wall
along the U.S. border with Mexico and temporarily ban Muslims from entering the
U.S.

"It seems like it's more important to bring attention to this now, he said,
adding that "people from other countries are living here, they're Americans. The
purpose of this is to educate, to enlighten, to make people aware of people from
different countries.

"This wasn't intended to be any kind of geopolitical statement when I first
started this, he said.

Chester's photos offer a glimpse into the lives of immigrants who have embraced
their new country but retained some of the culture of their homelands.

There is 92-year-old Maria Dias, leaning on her cane in front of a beach shack
in Truro, on the tip of Cape Cod, dressed in a traditional embroidered shawl and
apron of her native Portugal.

Haseeb Hosein, originally from Trinidad and Tobago and now a Boston police
district commander, is shown smiling in front of his office, dressed in his
police blues.

Olga Kwasniewski, a native of the former Soviet republic of Uzbekistan, is shown
standing in front of Boston Harbor, wearing a sash celebrating her win in a 2013
beauty pageant.

Kwasniewski, who is now a restaurant owner and model, said she agreed to be
photographed by Chester because she thinks it's important to celebrate the
contributions immigrants make to America and the gratitude they feel to be U.S.
citizens.

"The way he is picturing people at their workplace or their home, that shows how
they are still bringing part of their country to American life, and how their
lives have changed here, she said.

Chester, 71, a professional photographer who lives on Cape Cod, is applying for
cultural grants, looking for corporate sponsors and raising private money to
publish his book. To find subjects from countries around the world, he attends
naturalization ceremonies, goes to ethnic restaurants and has even been known to
ask cab drivers where they're from.

He's still searching for people from 11 countries, including Comoros, an
archipelago off Africa's East Coast; Tonga, a Polynesian kingdom of South
Pacific Islands; and Liechtenstein, a German-speaking principality between
Austria and Switzerland.

One of the project's sponsors is the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition. Sue Parsons, MIRA's development coordinator, said Chester's
photos capture the sense of optimism many immigrants have after they settle
here.

"Each photo shows their energy, and their hopefulness shines through, Parsons
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             355 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 21, 2016, Monday

Low turnout;
Put Trump in White House

BYLINE: Gzedit

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 298 words


The Census Bureau says America has 325 million population, of whom 245 million
are voting-age adults. But only around two-thirds of those adults - somewhere
near 160 million - are registered to vote.

Although votes still aren't entirely counted for the 2016 presidential race,
it's clear that Democrat Hillary Clinton won the popular vote, with more than 63
million total, while Donald Trump got somewhere above 61 million.

In other words, far fewer than half of America's registered voters - and only
one-fourth of eligible adults - chose Trump.

Can he claim a mandate to lead when only one-fourth of U.S. adults picked him?

After Trump's victory, President Barack Obama remarked sourly: "It's a reminder
that elections matter and voting counts. I don't know how many times we have to
relearn this lesson, because we ended up having 43 percent of the country not
voting who were eligible to vote."

Around the world, many other democracies have much higher voter turnout - 91
percent in Canada and Britain, 96 percent in Sweden and 99 percent in Japan.
Among 35 top democracies, Pew Research says America ranks 31st in voting.

If more Americans vote, the result better represents the population. Many
surveys have found that nonvoters generally hold progressive, humane,
Democratic-type values - but they don't bother going to polls. In contrast,
conservatives tend to be more determined voters.

In some places, Republicans try to suppress voting - imposing legal obstacles on
blacks, Hispanics, the young and others who lean Democratic. Perhaps this
affected the outcome of some races in 2016, but not nearly as much as the number
of people who do not bother to vote.

Come January, America will have a government of one-fourth of the people, by
one-fourth of the people, for one-fourth of the people.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             356 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 21, 2016, Monday

Romney, Mattis among key Cabinet contenders

BYLINE: Catherine Lucey and Laurie Kellman, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 830 words


BEDMINSTER, N.J. - President-elect Donald Trump said Sunday that he had "made a
couple of deals" after spending the weekend meeting with a long list of
potential administration appointees, but he did not reveal any more picks.

Trump and the vice president-elect, Mike Pence, did drop some hints. Pence said
that Mitt Romney was "under active and serious consideration to become the
nation's next secretary of state. Trump said retired Marine Corps Gen. James
Mattis was an "impressive prospect for defense secretary.

"I think we have some really incredible people going to be working for the
country, Trump said Sunday evening. "We really had some incredible meetings.
You'll be hearing about them soon.

Among the visitors to the white-pillared clubhouse Sunday were Kansas Secretary
of State Kris Kobach, billionaire investor Wilbur Ross and retired Marine Gen.
John Kelly, the former commander of U.S. Southern Command.

Between conversations, Trump revealed he was making plans for transitioning his
family. He told reporters that his wife, Melania, and their 10-year-old son,
Barron, would move to Washington when the school year ends.

And Trump turned to Twitter to share some of his thinking. In between criticisms
of "Saturday Night Live, the hit musical "Hamilton, and Democrats, he wrote
that, "General James Mad Dog' Mattis, who is being considered for secretary of
defense, was very impressive yesterday. A true General's General!

The comments were indications that Trump is looking outside his immediate circle
as he works toward rounding out his foreign policy and national security teams.
On Friday, he named a loyalist, retired Gen. Michael Flynn, as his national
security adviser.

Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 GOP presidential contender,
and Trump exchanged bitter insults during the campaign, and Mattis has not been
considered a Trump confidante. The appointment of more establishment figures
could offer some reassurance to lawmakers and others concerned about Trump's
hard-line positions on immigration and national security and his lack of foreign
policy experience.

Trump told reporters Sunday that one of his most loyal and public allies, former
New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, was also a prospect for secretary of state "and
other things. Giuliani at one point had been considered for attorney general,
but Trump gave that job to Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama.

The businessman and president-elect also apparently was considering options to
lead the Commerce Department, meeting with Ross.

"Time will tell, Ross told reporters when asked if he wanted a post.

More meetings are on Trump's Monday schedule. His transition team said former
Texas governor and GOP presidential rival Rick Perry was expected to meet with
Trump today.

But even as Trump and his team discussed pressing issues facing the country and
how to staff the incoming administration, the president-elect's Twitter feed
suggested other issues too were on his mind.

His targets Sunday included retiring Democratic leader Harry Reid. Trump tweeted
that incoming Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, another media-savvy New
Yorker, was "far smarter than Reid and "has the ability to get things done.

Trump also complained that "Saturday Night Live, which thrives on making fun of
politicians, is "biased and not funny. The night before, actor Alec Baldwin
portrayed Trump as Googling, "What is ISIS?

Trump also insisted again that the cast and producers of "Hamilton should
apologize after the lead actor addressed Pence from the stage Friday night,
telling the vice president-elect that "diverse America was "alarmed and anxious.
Pence said on CBS's "Face the Nation that he wasn't offended.

Trump started filling key administration positions on Friday, picking Alabama
Sen. Jeff Sessions for attorney general and Kansas Rep. Mike Pompeo to head the
CIA, signaling a sharp rightward shift in U.S. security policy as he begins to
form his Cabinet. Trump also named retired Lt. Gen Michael Flynn as his national
security adviser.

Trump's initial decisions suggest a more aggressive military involvement in
counterterror strategy and a greater emphasis on Islam's role in stoking
extremism. Sessions, who is best known for his hard line immigration views, has
questioned whether terrorist suspects should benefit from the rights available
in U.S. courts. Pompeo has said Muslim leaders are "potentially complicit in
attacks if they do not denounce violence carried out in the name of Islam.

Pompeo's nomination to lead the CIA also opens the prospect of the U.S. resuming
torture of detainees. Trump has backed harsh interrogation techniques that
President Barack Obama and Congress have banned, saying the U.S. "should go
tougher than waterboarding, which simulates drowning.

In 2014, Pompeo criticized Obama for "ending our interrogation program and said
intelligence officials "are not torturers, they are patriots."

Sessions and Pompeo would both require Senate confirmation; Flynn would not.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             357 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 22, 2016, Tuesday

Red states, blue states: Producers vs. consumers;
Not just race or gender, nation faces cultural differences within

BYLINE: Dmedit

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P5A

LENGTH: 473 words


There's been much said about the differences between the people who voted for
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump and those who voted for Democrat
Hillary Clinton.

To a general extent, but not exclusively, more populous and more diverse areas
of the country went for Clinton, while more rural areas with less diverse
populations voted for Trump.

Pundits like to generalize. Better-educated and white-collar people voted for
Clinton, while less-educated and blue-collar workers generally voted for Trump.
Forward-thinking people voted for Clinton. Angry people voted for Trump, they
theorize.

But few seem to be considering another factor that's both cultural and economic:
Call it the producers versus the consumers.

Looking at the map of which states went for which candidate, it is clear that,
generally speaking (with some exceptions), more populous areas went with
Clinton. The populations of those states, it could be argued, are mostly
consumers who have little connection or understanding to where the food they eat
or the energy they burn comes from.

Yet the people in the red states are more likely to be the farmers, the
ranchers, the growers - or to be connected with someone who is - and have better
understanding of the time, the effort, the care, the expense, the danger and the
reward of producing food.

They are more likely to innately understand that new, burdensome rules imposed
by a far-off and disconnected government in Washington - likely staffed with
people who grew up in populated areas and went to the best colleges - have
little understanding for their line of work.

The same can be said for energy. The people in the red states are more likely to
be coal miners, oil and gas field workers, tanker truck drivers, pipeline
workers, and others who toil and sweat in producing and delivering mass volumes
of energy the consuming states need to power their iPhones, air conditioners and
vehicles.

They feel the burdens of new regulation and higher costs imposed by nonconnected
government bureaucrats and well-intentioned Democratic officials.

While many of this consuming class don't understand why so many Americans would
vote for the highly flawed and controversial Trump, so many of the producing
class don't understand why the Democratic Party wants to keep growing government
and keep adding rules to their work.

The chasm of understanding between the producers and the consumers won't lessen
on its own. To promote understanding among nations, many schools and
universities exchange students. It's are a great way to increase communication
and build understanding among different cultures.

Perhaps its time to consider cultural and economic exchange programs in our own
country - sending city folk to the country and vice versa - to help us all
better understand the challenges and issues differing people face.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             358 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 22, 2016, Tuesday

OP/ED;
Low voter turnout profoundly disturbing

BYLINE: Gene Budig and Alan Heaps

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 611 words


Given the bitter and divisive nature of the recent presidential campaign it is
hardly surprising that its aftermath is filled with acrimonious and bitter
recriminations. But one large group of critically important Americans has
remained relatively unnoticed and unscathed in what promises to be an ongoing
bitter political and ideological war.

That group is the 93 million eligible voters who did not vote.

In rounded numbers, there are 220 million eligible voters in the United States.
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump each received 60 million. Third party,
write-ins and other presidential candidates received 7 million. So simple math
tells us that 93 million, more than 40 percent, did not cast a ballot.

To put this number in perspective, turnout for this year's presidential election
year was in the average range for the last 50 years. We bounce around between 50
percent and 60 percent. But our consistency is not a sign of excellence. The
simple fact is that Americans are not politically engaged when compared to other
countries. Of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's 35
developed countries, 27 have higher voter percentages than the United States,
led by Belgium's almost 90 percent.

Why is turnout so poor?

While it is too early to have research on this year's non-voters, we do have
indicators as to reasons. After the 2014 midterm elections, this same group was
asked for the top reason they abstained from the process: 28 percent were too
busy, 16 percent were not interested, 11 percent were ill or disabled, 10
percent were out of town, 8 percent each forgot or disliked the candidates, 2
percent each had registration problems or transportation issues or poor weather,
and the remainder had other reasons or refused to answer the question.

The problem here is that democracy is based on active participation by its
citizens. When almost half the population does not vote, we have clear evidence
of a major problem. And unfortunately, since this problem has been with us for
decades, the nation bears a heavy burden of shame for not paying attention to
the continued scourges of poverty, unemployment, unequal income distribution and
the belief that rules are unevenly applied.

With the specter of a nation splitting apart, our future depends on involving
those 93 million.

Until election day, the political pundits were saying that the Republicans were
going to be forced to rethink their party's future. It now appears it is the the
Democrats who face this problem. And while we can be sure that political
strategists are already examining how to better their party's position, neither
has an interest in increasing voter turnout unless it benefits their interests

The burden on spreading our democracy to everyone does not lie with our many
levels of government. They are too vested in their own interests. It lies with
each of us, working through our places of employment, worship, community
organizations and social networks. It will rely not on trying to convince people
that our ideas are better or worth supporting. It will rely on spreading the
word that every voice counts and has merit.

The effort is in each of our hands to win or lose.

While it is impossible to tell the outcome of the race had the turnout been
higher, this is not a partisan issue. Successful democracies depend on citizen
involvement and interest. A 58 percent turnout rate is disappointing and it is
important for all of us that we work to dramatically increase the number by
2020.

Gene Budig is past president/chancellor of three state universities and
baseball's American League. Alan Heaps is a former vice president of the College
Board in New York City.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             359 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 22, 2016, Tuesday

Tomblin talks trade and Trump on trip to Cuba

BYLINE: Eric Eyre, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 745 words


Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin spent three days in Cuba on a trade mission last week,
talking about business opportunities for West Virginia companies on the island
and answering questions about President-elect Donald Trump.

Tomblin was the first U.S. governor to visit Cuba since Trump's victory in the
presidential election.

During the presidential campaign, Trump criticized President Barack Obama's
executive orders that seek to normalize U.S. relations with Cuba, calling the
new policy "weak. Trump has said he would negotiate a better deal that benefits
the United States.

At a press conference Saturday in Havana, Tomblin said he hopes U.S.-Cuban ties
will strengthen.

"There might be some movement regarding Cuba policy on behalf of the new
administration, but I also feel like there are many of us who would like to
continue the path of normalization, Tomblin told the Cuban media. "Over the last
two years, the White House has opened up the barriers that existed between the
two countries, and I feel that many governors and politicians in the U.S. are in
favor of moving forward with that.

Trump won West Virginia's five electoral votes by a landslide. Only Wyoming had
a higher percentage of voters who cast ballots for Trump.

"We had surprises [during the election], but I believe that efforts in the
process of normalization will continue to advance, Tomblin said at the press
conference in Havana. "Every morning when you wake up and turn on the
television, it's a new adventure.

Tomblin's office gave no advance notice to local media about the governor's
trade mission to Cuba. Tomblin, who's serving out a second and final term, will
leave the governor's mansion in seven weeks. Governor-elect Jim Justice will
take office on Jan. 16.

During the Cuba trip, Tomblin was accompanied by four executives from three West
Virginia-based companies: Pilgrim's Pride, a chicken processor in Moorefield;
Multicoat Corp., a Winfield firm that makes waterproofing products; and
Industrial Bolting Technologies, a Charleston manufacturer that sells hydraulic
torque wrenches.

John Dill, vice president at Multicoat, said Monday that he's already following
up on potential new business for his company spurred by the trip to Cuba.

"We went into this mission without expectations, and I can tell you it exceeded
any hopes we could have had, Dill said. "We learned that Cuba has a strong
economic market for many products, including our own.

Others who traveled to Cuba with Tomblin including first lady Joanne Jaeger
Tomblin; Commerce Secretary Keith Burdette; Commerce Department lawyer Josh
Jarrell; Tomblin's legislative affairs director, Joey Garcia; and Commerce
Department International Director Steve Spence.

The West Virginia delegation flew from Charleston to Miami on the state plane,
then took a charter flight to Havana. The state picked up travel and lodging
expenses for state officials, while the business executives covered their own
travel costs, according to Tomblin's spokeswoman.

Tomblin and the delegation met with Cuban officials from the country's Ministry
of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Investment, Ministry of
Construction, Ministry of Transportation and Ministry of Tourism.

Tomblin was the sixth U.S. governor to visit Cuba after the U.S. eased sanctions
in December 2014.

"Since the U.S. restored diplomatic relations and has started to normalize
relations with Cuba, several governors have already visited or made plans to
visit, said Jessica Tice, a Tomblin spokeswoman. "Governor Tomblin believed it
was important to get involved in these types of conversations early in the
process and capitalize on this new opportunity for business and trade in an
attempt to grow West Virginia exports.

According to Cuban media reports, West Virginia also seeks to position itself as
a supplier of coal and natural gas to Cuba at a time when Venezuela, a country
dogged by an economic crisis, has reduced fuel exports sent to the island.

Tomblin also said West Virginia universities want to exchange research on health
and education with Cuba's universities, according to reports.

The Cuba trip marked Tomblin's sixth and final trade mission.

DESMOND BOYLAND / AP photo

People line up outside the United States embassy in Havana, Cuba, on Nov. 9. At
a press conference Saturday in Havana, West Virginia Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin said
he hopes U.S.-Cuban ties will strengthen.

Reach Eric Eyre at ericeyre@wvgazettemail.com, 304-348-4869 or follow @ericeyre
on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             360 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                          November 23, 2016, Wednesday

Democrats must learn from the GOP and rebuild

BYLINE: Eugene Robinson, Syndicated columnist

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 773 words


The Republican Party is fractured by ideological divisions, led by an
inexperienced and unpredictable president-elect, and quite possibly headed for a
fratricidal civil war. The Democratic Party should be so lucky.

There is much unpleasant reality for Democrats to deal with right now, starting
with this: The GOP controls virtually everything. The two-party system is, at
best, one and a half.

Republicans won the presidency. They retained control of both houses of
Congress. Soon, when Donald Trump appoints a replacement for the late Justice
Antonin Scalia, they will re-establish a conservative majority on the Supreme
Court. As far as the federal government is concerned, that's the whole trifecta.

But there's much more: After making significant gains last week, Republicans
control both legislative chambers in 32 states - and hold the governorships in
33. Some of the nation's most diverse and populous states, including Texas and
Florida, are living under one-party Republican rule.

Democrats should reject the urge to take comfort in favorable demographic
trends. It is true that within a generation, minorities will be in the majority
- and that minorities tend to vote for Democrats. But what would the country be
like after 20 or 30 years of near-total Republican control? I'm sure most
progressives would join me in not wanting to run that dangerous experiment.

Did Democrats lose the White House because their presidential candidate had
baggage and was not perfect in every way? Come on, the Republicans nominated
Trump, for heaven's sake, a man who bragged about grabbing women by the
genitals. I don't have nearly enough space to list all the ways in which he
disqualified himself. Yet he won.

The Republican Party is so splintered - the establishment, the tea party wing,
the fiscal tightwads, the defense hawks, the social conservatives, the
libertarians and now the Trumpistas - that sometimes I think of it as
Afghanistan: with each faction having its own warlords and grievances and goals.
Many of the demands they make upon Trump, House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will be uncompromisingly extreme and mutually
exclusive. There will be blood (metaphorically, of course).

Yet if Democrats expect to sit back and watch the GOP self-destruct, I fear they
will be disappointed. Consider this fact: The Republican Party not only survived
the Trump candidacy, but prospered. Why would the same not be true of a Trump
presidency?

One of the biggest lessons I draw from the election is that the GOP basically
came together behind its candidate. Despite all the Never Trump noise, most
prominent Republican officials eventually fell in line. Some voiced strong
reservations but said they would vote for him anyway, which amounted to an
endorsement. Others, such as the Bush family, declined to publicly proclaim
their opposition in a way that perhaps might have made a difference. Maybe they
thought he was bound to lose anyway; if so, they miscalculated.

Another lesson, perhaps the most important one, is that the Democratic Party
cannot hope to succeed by relying solely on its ability to win the popular vote
in presidential elections.

Democrats have won the popular vote in 1992, 1996, 2000, 2008, 2012 and now
2016. That's six out of the last seven presidential contests. Yet the Republican
Party is running the country, or at least most of it.

The Democratic Party cannot just wait for the next Barack Obama to come along.
The president is a unique political talent of the kind that appears only once in
a great while, when the stars magically align. Instead, Democrats need to do
what Republicans did, which is to build from the ground up and start winning
state and local elections.

A Democratic rebound has to begin with the basics: Getting people who agree with
you to vote. Less than 60 percent of those eligible to cast ballots in last
week's election bothered to do so. Conservatives who say this is "a center-right
nation may be right in terms of who votes, but they're wrong in terms of who
could vote. Polls show that the country favors Democratic over Republican
positions on most issues.

The Democratic Party should put its energy and money into connecting with
potential voters at the grass-roots level. Trump made a bunch of pie-in-the-sky
promises he can never keep. Democrats need a hopeful but realistic message
recognizing that while most big cities prosper in today's globalized economy,
much of the rest of the country suffers.

Democrats will win when theirs is the "big tent party. Right now, though, the
GOP circus is in town.

Eugene Robinson is a columnist for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             361 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                          November 23, 2016, Wednesday

AFFORDABLE CARE ACT;
Official lobbies to keep ACA

BYLINE: Andrew Brown, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 1309 words


As Republican congressional leaders and president-elect Donald Trump are
considering the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, Sylvia Burwell is trying to
show people the benefits of President Barack Obama's signature health care law.

The U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services and West Virginia native was in
Charleston Tuesday to kick off a public relations campaign to show why the
federal law is important and highlight the number of people benefiting from it.

"This isn't a conversation about a word - Obamacare. It's actually about real
people's lives, Burwell said. "We need to have those stories told, and that's
what we are starting here today - no better place than West Virginia.

The effort to defend the law comes at a time when insurance premiums in public
marketplaces are expected to increase and some of the nation's top insurers are
dropping out of the state and federal exchanges that were set up after the law
was passed in 2010.

The comprehensive health care law has been a primary target of Republicans for
years and played heavily in the presidential election, as Trump called for its
repeal and Hillary Clinton suggested it could be reformed.

Burwell laid out some of the successes of the health care law, including reduced
Medicare prescription costs, a ban on insurance companies turning down people
with pre-existing conditions and ending limits on the amount of treatment
someone can have over the course of their lifetime.

She also cited the portions of the law that block additional costs for
contraception, limiting out-of-pocket spending under insurance plans and
decreasing the number of uninsured adults nationwide from 18 percent to 11
percent.

In West Virginia, hundreds of thousands of people in the state have health
insurance for the first time, including more than 178,000 people who have
qualified for coverage under the expanded Medicaid program.

Since Trump won the election, he has softened his campaign rhetoric and
suggested he will keep parts of the law, including the mandate on pre-existing
conditions.

Burwell is taking Trump and other opponents of the law at their word when they
say they will keep many of the most popular portions of the law, but she
questions whether those pieces can work if the rest of the law is dismantled.

"This is like Jenga, Burwell said. "That is a lot of what the Affordable Care
Act is. It's like Jenga, where you can maybe move a piece, but when you pull out
a key piece, the whole thing is going to tumble.

One of the reasons insurance companies relented to covering people with
pre-existing conditions was because lawmakers also put in the requirement that
everyone had to purchase either public, private or employer-based coverage. That
compromise is likely to fall apart if the insurance mandate is removed.

To show how the health care changes under Obamacare have helped, Burwell was
joined on a panel Tuesday by individuals who have benefited for various portions
of the law.

Allen Kennedy, who is self employed, didn't have insurance for years, but
decided he needed it now that he was getting older.

He is now one of the thousands of West Virginians who found out they were
covered under West Virginia's Medicaid expansion. It has allowed him to have
surgery on his eyes to remove cataracts that would have stopped him from
working, he said.

Kelly Allen, a Morgantown resident and health care employee with West Virginia
University, currently can't be denied insurance because of her immunodeficiency
disorder, but she fears that could change.

When she was still on her mother's insurance, they often got calls threatening
to drop her coverage because of her health condition. Her mother kept an
attorney on speed dial, she said.

"I knew if I ever had a lapse in my coverage or if I ever hit a lifetime limit,
I would essentially be uninsurable for the rest of my life, Allen said. "So the
Affordable Care Act affects me very much.

"I don't want to go back to the way life was before the Affordable Care Act, she
said.

Members of the Obama administration, including Burwell, have recognized the
failings of some aspects of the law, including the lack of competition that is a
result of major insurers dropping out of the marketplaces.

In the past year, major national insurance providers, like Aetna, have pulled
out of numerous states, and in late October, the Department of Health and Human
Services released a report that showed that the average premium for a mid-level
plan in the market was expected to increase by 25 percent next year.

That number immediately caught fire on the campaign trail as Trump and
congressional Republicans held it up as evidence of the law's failure.

That report, however, did also show that 77 percent of the people enrolled in
the individual insurance plans were paying less than $100 per month due to
subsidies offered through federal tax credits.

Still, other people with higher incomes shopping on exchanges don't always
qualify for those subsidies.

Obama authored a policy paper in The Journal of the American Medical Association
in July that laid out some changes that he believes could improve the system.

The outgoing president called for the remaining 19 states to expand their
Medicaid programs, for additional insurance subsidies in the state and federal
marketplaces, for policies to rein in prescription drug costs that have
increased dramatically in recent years and a Medicaid-like public insurance
option for states that have limited competition among private insurers.

That last part was considered in 2010, but was dropped out of the final law.

Obama laid some of the blame for problems with the system at the feet of health
care lobbying groups that have sought to stymie change.

"Special interests pose a continued obstacle to change, Obama wrote in the
policy paper. "We worked successfully with some health care organizations and
groups, such as major hospital associations, to redirect excessive Medicare
payments to federal subsidies for the uninsured. Yet others, like the
pharmaceutical industry, oppose any change to drug pricing, no matter how
justifiable and modest, because they believe it threatens their profits.

Burwell was also joined Tuesday by health professionals that have seen a
dramatic drop in uncompensated care at hospitals, which ultimately saves those
health care organizations money.

Rocco Massey, another panelist, works as the Community CEO at Appalachian
Regional Hospital in Beckley, which, like other hospitals throughout the state,
has seen millions of dollars in cost savings due to more people being insured.

"At our organization, 100 percent of that money is plowed back into our
community, Massey said. "It all comes back. It comes back in the form of new
services. It comes back in the form of new equipment, new buildings. It helps us
recruit new physicians back to West Virginia, and it helps us retain nurses.

Fewer people are using the emergency room as their only form of care, he said.
Instead, they are visiting the hospital's community clinic more regularly for
routine and preventative care.

Margaret Grassie, a Charleston resident, was one of those people using the
emergency room as her doctor's office.

As an employee of a small business, she didn't have insurance before she
qualified under the Medicaid expansion. Now, she has been able to afford her
daily medication, treatment on her ankle and a monitor for her diabetes.

"Basically, I fell through the cracks, Grassie said. "And the elevator that
brought me up was the Affordable Care Act.

SAM OWENS | Gazette-Mail

Sylvia M. Burwell (center), U.S.

Department of Health and Human

Services Secretary and

West Virginia native, addresses

the crowd during a panel discussion

about the Affordable Health

Care Act at the University of Charleston Tuesday.

Reach Andrew Brown at andrew.brown@wvgazettemail.com, 304-348-4814 or follow
@Andy_Ed_Brown on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             362 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 25, 2016, Friday

Trump spurs fears, hopes over ACA

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein The Washington Post

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. P11A

LENGTH: 1128 words


A 30-year-old cancer survivor in a small West Virginia town worries how she
would pay for treatment if a tumor returned. A Chicago doctor wonders whether
her hospital would cut back on care for ill or premature infants. In Northern
Virginia, the head of a small nonprofit clinic lies awake at night fearing a
surge of uninsured patients she couldn't afford to take in.

Less than two weeks after the unexpected election of Donald Trump, the incoming
administration and the Republicans who control Congress have defined few
specifics for how they will carry out their promise to eliminate the Affordable
Care Act. Yet the shift in Washington's political geometry already is stoking
anxiety among many of the 11 million people who have gained private insurance
under the law, as well as among those who help care for them.

At the same time, some Trump voters with ACA health plans relish the idea of
shedding the law. "How could it be worse? asked Carl Galloni, who sells and
installs garage doors in North Carolina. "My man won, so I'm not frightened [of]
what he's going to do.

Such clashing perspectives offer a ground-level view of the two Americas exposed
by a singularly polarizing presidential campaign - a campaign driven by profound
disagreements over basic values, including the role of government.

On few matters is the political divide as pure as it is on health care. Early
this fall, nearly nine in 10 Democrats said in a survey for Harvard University
and Politico that they thought the government has a major role in improving the
health system, and 80 percent said the ACA is working well. Among Republicans,
only about a quarter said the government has a major role, while an equal share
said the government has none. Nearly 90 percent said the ACA is working poorly.

These beliefs "correlate perfectly with the [Hillary] Clinton versus Trump vote,
said Robert Blendon, a Harvard professor who specializes in public opinion on
health issues.

In Fairmont, West Virginia, Mina Schultz voted for Clinton. As she works at a
community health center there, helping patients sign up for ACA coverage and her
state's expanded version of Medicaid, she sees firsthand how political health
care has become. Some of her clients are now asking if it all is going to go
away.

For Schultz, the fate of the law also is intensely personal. In 2011, when she
was 25, she assumed she'd go uninsured for several months between graduate
school and joining the Peace Corps. But her parents had heard that the fledgling
ACA let them include her on their insurance policy through age 26, and they did.

That May, three weeks after getting her master's degree in French, a recent pain
in her right knee was diagnosed as bone cancer. So she happened to be insured
when, instead of going overseas, she spent the next year in and out of the
hospital for nine rounds of chemotherapy and a total knee replacement.

She moved back home to Fairmont when she was 27, first taking a crummy job that
came with insurance, and then, because she'd become intrigued by the health care
system, finding the enrollment-counseling position at the Monongahela Valley
Association of health centers. Her job, created through a federal grant, does
not provide health benefits. Shultz signed herself up for an ACA Blue Cross-Blue
Shield plan.

These days, in addition to work, she is pursuing a second master's degree - in
health policy. She still needs follow-up tests and medicine, including for the
chronic kidney disease that is a remnant of her treatment. She also deals with
anxiety and, since the election, a new fear: the future of her insurance and
that of the people she has helped to choose health plans.

The president-elect, she knows, has been saying that the government should
continue to forbid insurers to refuse people with pre-existing medical problems
- problems like her bone cancer. She also knows that, if the ACA ends, insurers
may be able to revert to setting annual or lifetime limits on customers'
coverage.

"There's not a day that goes by that I don't think, What if my cancer comes
back?' " Schultz said. The prospect of capped insurance during a second bout of
such expensive treatment "is terrifying. ... I'm somewhat panicked.

But in Jamestown, North Carolina, a suburb of 3,000 between Greensboro and High
Point, Galloni, 61, is hopeful. He has never changed his party affiliation since
registering as a Democrat at 18, but he often crosses party lines and this month
was enthusiastic in his vote for Trump.

A small-business man, whose company consists of his wife and four employees, he
is fed up with the ACA marketplace - the bureaucracy, the diminishing choice and
the spiking price. Until now, Galloni has gotten federal subsidies because he
wasn't taking a salary from his company for several years. But he's decided to
draw some income again, so the subsidies are going away. The monthly premiums to
cover him and his wife will leap from about $400 this year to $2,000 in January
if he keeps his Blue Cross plan. He isn't sure yet whether he will.

What gives him hope is the talk he's heard from Trump about letting insurers
sell health plans across state lines. "Why can't I go three miles into Virginia
and get my health insurance there if it's cheaper? he said. "Competition just
makes the world go around.

Among health care professionals, the possibility that the ACA could soon be
dismantled is setting off jitters, especially in places where many patients are
poor.

At the University of Chicago's children's hospital, three-fourths of the babies
in the neonatal intensive care unit have mothers on Medicaid. Illinois is one of
31 states that expanded Medicaid under the law. Bree Andrews, a pediatrician and
neonatologist there who runs a center for healthy families, worries that a loss
of extra Medicaid money the ACA has funneled into the hospital might mean fewer
social workers or lactation specialists.

"I think it's going to throw us into free fall, Andrews said. "Neonatal care is
expensive, and there is a lot of it. If hospitals don't know how they will get
paid ... I wonder what will have to go.

Hundreds of miles away in a Virginia suburb of Washington, Nancy White fears
what will happen at the Arlington Free Clinic, where she became director a year
ago. The clinic relies on donations and volunteers and can accept only about
2,000 patients at a time. It knows of about 200 patients who have gotten
subsidized ACA plans and shifted to private doctors. Many more never arrived at
the clinic's doors because of coverage they found through the law.

If the new president and the Congress end the subsidies or the marketplaces, the
clinic would not have the capacity to take back newly uninsured patients, White
said. "It's what's been what's been keeping me up at night.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             363 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                          November 26, 2016, Saturday

Russian propaganda effort spread fake election news, report says

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P3A

LENGTH: 298 words


NEW YORK - A new report suggests a "sophisticated" Russian propaganda campaign
helped flood social media with fake news stories leading up to the presidential
election.

The Washington Post, citing a yet-to-be published report from independent
researchers, said the goal was to punish Hillary Clinton, help Donald Trump, and
undermine faith in American democracy.

The report comes from a nonpartisan group of researchers called PropOrNot. The
group describes itself as "concerned American citizens" with expertise in
computer science, national security and public policy. The researchers say they
traced the origins of posts and mapped the connections among accounts that
delivered similar messages.

The findings show just how effective the bogus reports and propaganda were,
according to the report. On Facebook, PropOrNot estimates that stories planted
or promoted by the disinformation campaign were viewed 213 million times.

While it's not clear whether fake news and propaganda helped sway the election
in Trump's favor, millions of Americans get their news from what's shared on
Facebook and other social media. In recent months, fake and misleading stories
have proliferated, even as Facebook has insisted that they make up a tiny
fraction of the overall stuff users share on the site.

Both Facebook and Google have said they are taking steps to stop the spread of
misinformation on their sites, including by turning off access to advertising.

PropOrNot's report, provided to The Post in advance of its public release,
identified more than 200 websites as "peddlers of Russian propaganda during the
election season, with combined audiences of at least 15 million Americans.

PropOrNot did immediately not respond to a message asking for the report on
Friday afternoon.

- the associated press

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             364 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                          November 26, 2016, Saturday

Voting patterns show rift in US economy

BYLINE: Jim Tankersley, The Washington Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P2A

LENGTH: 653 words


In the modern era of presidential politics, no candidate has ever won the
popular vote by more than Hillary Clinton did this year, yet still managed to
lose the electoral college. In that sense, 2016 was a historic split: Donald
Trump won the presidency by as many as 74 electoral votes (depending on how
Michigan ends up) while losing the nationwide vote to Clinton by 2 million votes
and counting.

But there's another divide exposed by the election, which researchers at the
Brookings Institution discovered as they sifted the election returns. It has no
bearing on the election outcome, but it tells us something important about the
state of the country and the future of its politics.

The divide is economic, and it is massive. According to the Brookings analysis,
the fewer-than-500 counties that Clinton won nationwide combined to generate 64
percent of U.S. economic activity in 2015. The more-than-2,600 counties that
Trump won combined to generate 36 percent of the country's economic activity
last year.

Clinton, in other words, carried nearly two-thirds of the American economy.

With the exceptions of the Phoenix and Fort Worth areas, and a big chunk of Long
Island, Clinton won every large-size economic county in the country.

This appears to be unprecedented, in the era of modern economic statistics, for
a losing presidential candidate. The last candidate to win the popular vote but
lose the electoral college, Democrat Al Gore in 2000, won counties that
generated about 54 percent of the country's gross domestic product, the
Brookings researchers calculated. That's true even though Gore won more than 100
more counties in 2000 than Clinton did in 2016.

Between those elections, U.S. economic activity has grown increasingly
concentrated in large, "superstar metropolitan areas such as Silicon Valley and
New York.

But it's not the case that the counties Clinton won have grown richer at the
expense of the rest of the country - they represent about the same share of the
economy today as they did in 2000. Instead, it appears that, compared with Gore,
Clinton was much more successful in winning over the most successful counties in
a geographically unbalanced economy.

The Brookings analysis found that counties with higher GDP per capita were more
likely to vote for Clinton over Trump, as were counties with higher population
densities. Counties with higher shares of manufacturing employment were more
likely to vote for Trump.

"This is a picture of a very polarized and increasingly concentrated economy,
said Mark Muro, the policy director at the Brookings metro program, "with the
Democratic base aligning more to that more concentrated modern economy, but a
lot of votes and anger to be had in the rest of the country.

As Muro notes, many state legislatures are divided on similar grounds, between
higher-output metro areas and lower-output rural ones. Often, that divide pushes
governors of those states, even the ones who hail from cities, to support
economic development in lower-output areas. Such a dynamic could be an upside
under a president who won votes representing only a third of the country's
economy: To respond to his voters, Trump could promote policies to help those
areas adapt more rapidly to the changing economy.

There's a downside, though, for a candidate such as Trump, whose economic appeal
was rooted in a promise to restore coal, manufacturing and other jobs lost in
the shifts of the past several decades.

That task will be difficult, Muro has written, in part because manufacturers
have grown substantially more productive in recent years, meaning they probably
won't be adding millions of workers even if Trump pursues major changes in trade
policy that result in more goods being made in the United States.

"The prescription isn't that helpful, Muro said. "We're going to have a lot of
questions about how to translate the political geography into actually helpful
policy."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             365 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                          November 26, 2016, Saturday

SUPREME COURT;
Trump may need support of scorned justice

BYLINE: Mark Sherman, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P2A

LENGTH: 688 words


WASHINGTON - It's a safe bet that when Chief Justice John Roberts and Donald
Trump meet outside the Capitol on Inauguration Day, Roberts won't ask why Trump
said terrible things about him.

"Disgraceful" and "an absolute disaster" were some of the ways Trump
characterized Roberts as he campaigned.

Come Jan. 20, Roberts will administer the oath of office, the two men will shake
hands and then Roberts will recede into the background. For now.

Roberts and the rest of the Supreme Court probably will be called on to review
Trump's major undertakings as president. Trump could need Roberts' vote on
matters ranging from immigration to health care to environmental regulations.

Will it matter that in the course of the campaign, Trump had harsh words for the
leader of the federal judiciary? The pointed criticism of a justice by name was
only one in a long list of unusual aspects of Trump's campaign for the
presidency.

"Justice Roberts really let us down, Trump told an audience in Aiken, South
Carolina, last December. "What he did with Obamacare was disgraceful, and I
think he did that because he wanted to be popular inside the Beltway, he added,
referring to greater Washington.

A month later, in an interview with ABC News' George Stephanopoulos, Trump again
referred to the health care decisions when he said, "Justice Roberts turned out
to be an absolute disaster.

Roberts was savaged by several Republican presidential candidates, an unusual
spectacle given Roberts' appointment by a Republican president and his generally
conservative record. Roberts has not responded to the criticism. Among the
justices, Ruth Bader Ginsburg made plain her dislike of Trump in July, then
walked back her comments a few days later.

Trump's controversial idea about keeping Muslims out of the U.S. would certainly
face a court challenge if his administration tries to put it in place.
Environmental groups that have been fighting for Obama-era regulations would be
expected to fight Trump efforts to roll those back.

In these and other areas where the extent of the president's power is at stake,
the Supreme Court could have the final word.

As chief justice of a court that is divided between four liberal appointees of
Democratic presidents and four more conservative justices who were put on the
court by Republicans, Roberts has said he has spent even more time than usual
seeking agreement.

The potential for deadlock will disappear once Trump nominates and the Senate
confirms someone to fill the seat that has been vacant since Justice Antonin
Scalia's death in February.

But even then, Roberts might see the value in consensus, said Artemus Ward, a
political science professor at Northern Illinois University who has written
about the Supreme Court.

"Does the court want to issue divided opinions to a divided country on divisive
issues? Ward asked.

The inauguration-day meeting between Roberts and Trump may have its closest
parallel in the contentious relationship between Earl Warren and Richard Nixon,
old Republican political rivals in California.

In January 1969, Warren was the chief justice who asked Nixon to raise his right
hand and repeat the presidential oath. In that campaign, Nixon ran against the
liberal Warren Court on a law-and-order platform.

"One of the most painful moments of Warren's life had to be swearing in Nixon,
said Jim Newton, author of the Warren biography "Justice for All.

But there is no evidence from records of the 1968 presidential race that Nixon
personally disparaged Warren, Newton said. The chief justice already had
announced that he would retire from the Supreme Court and Nixon knew he would
appoint a successor if he won.

Days before his death in 1974, Justices William Brennan and William Douglas
visited Warren in his Washington hospital room. Nixon's presidency was mired in
the Watergate scandal and it was about to receive a final blow in the form of a
Supreme Court decision ordering the president to turn over secretly recorded
audiotapes. Warren pleaded with his old colleagues to hold Nixon accountable and
not let the president be above the law.

They assured him they would, Newton wrote.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             366 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                          November 26, 2016, Saturday

Trump adds picks as recounts loom

BYLINE: Steve Peoples and Todd Richmond, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 863 words


MADISON, Wis. - President-elect Donald Trump pressed forward Friday with

two more administration picks, as failed Green Party candidate Jill Stein took
new

-teps to force recounts across key Midwestern battlegrounds that could
complicate Trump's push for national unity.

Stein, who earned little more than 1 percent of the national vote, formally
requested a Wisconsin recount Friday afternoon, vowing to do the same in the
coming days in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Wisconsin officials confirmed Friday
evening they would move forward with the first presidential recount in state
history. There is no evidence of election tampering in the states where Trump
scored razor-thin victories, but Green Party spokesman George Martin insisted
"the American public needs to have it investigated to make sure our votes count.

"We're doing this to ensure the integrity of our system, he said.

Trump's team ignored questions about the looming recounts. Set to assume the
presidency in 55 days, he was focused instead on the daunting task of building
an administration from scratch.

Gathered with family at his Mar-a-Lago Palm Beach estate for the holiday
weekend, the incoming president made two senior-level staff appointments and
scheduled meetings with several more prospective administration officials.

He tapped Fox News analyst Kathleen Troia "KT McFarland to serve as deputy
national security adviser and campaign attorney Donald McGahn as White House
counsel. In a statement, Trump cited McFarland's "tremendous experience and
innate talent and said McGhan "has a brilliant legal mind, excellent character
and a deep understanding of constitutional law.

Having faced criticism about the inexperience of his initial picks, Trump finds
in McFarland someone who previously worked under three presidents, although none
since Ronald Reagan. McGhan, a veteran Republican election lawyer, served as
Trump's attorney during the campaign.

Neither position requires Senate confirmation.

Trump transition spokesman Sean Spicer said the president-elect scheduled Monday
meetings with eight more prospective administration hires, a group that includes
several business leaders, Pennsylvania Rep. Lou Barletta, and David Clarke, the
Wisconsin sheriff who is an aggressive opponent of the Black Lives Matter
movement.

Facing external pressure from Stein, there were also signs of internal discord
within the president-elect's small inner circle as Trump weighed his choices for
secretary of state.

The options for the nation's chief diplomat include former New York City Mayor
Rudy Giuliani, who lacks foreign policy experience but was intensely loyal to
Trump, and 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who aggressively
opposed Trump's candidacy but is largely regarded as more qualified.

Trump spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway took the unusual step of shining light on the
controversy over the Thanksgiving holiday, tweeting that she had been "receiving
a deluge of social media & private concerns re: Romney Some Trump loyalists warn
against Romney as sec of state.

Meanwhile, Stein announced on her website she has raised enough money to fund
recounts in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and was pursuing additional funding to do
the same in Michigan.

Trump's Nov. 8 victory was unexpected and historic, by some measures.

Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2
million votes. Trump scored narrow victories in key battleground states,
however, giving him the necessary 270 electoral votes to assume the presidency.

He won in Pennsylvania. He won in Wisconsin, breaking a Democratic winning
streak dating back 32 years. He holds a slim lead in Michigan, where a
Republican presidential candidate hadn't won since 1988; The Associated Press
still hasn't officially called that race.

Wisconsin, where Trump leads by little more than 22,000 votes, has never before
conducted a presidential recount. It will this year, state administrator Michael
Haas announced Friday, citing recount requests by Stein and independent
candidate Rocky De La Fuente.

"The Commission is preparing to move forward with a statewide recount of votes
for President of the United States, as requested by these candidates, Haas said,
noting that the recount is expected to be completed by the Dec. 13 federal
deadline.

In Michigan, Trump's 10,704-vote lead is expected to be certified by the state
elections board Monday. The deadline to ask for a recount is Wednesday.

A statewide recount would cost Stein roughly $790,000, said Fred Woodhams, a
spokesman for the Michigan secretary of state. An opposing candidate would have
seven days to file objections to the recount petition, after which the board
would schedule a public hearing and later issue a ruling on the objections.

Trump's transition team indicated he was focused on the challenges of governing.

Since arriving at his Palm Beach estate Wednesday, they said, the
president-elect has spoken to the prime ministers of Greece, Hungary and Sweden,
along with the presidents of Panama and Slovenia.

He is expected to return to his New York City home on Sunday.

Associated Press writer David Eggert in Lansing, Michigan, contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             367 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 27, 2016, Sunday

OTHER VIEWS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P10A

LENGTH: 1641 words


Los Angeles Times: On the Trans-Pacific Partnership

At a weekend economic summit in Peru, leaders of Pacific Rim nations in Asia and
the Americas made clear their support for the Trans-Pacific Partnership - with
or without the United States. But some also said they may throw in with a
competing approach to free trade: the Regional Comprehensive Economic
Partnership, a trading bloc being assembled by the People's Republic of China.
Their statements underscore the geopolitical risks that the United States will
take if it does not embrace the deal it helped negotiate with 11 other Pacific
nations.

The TPP was always going to be a tough sell in Congress, as a growing number of
Republicans have joined most Democrats in questioning the value of free-trade
deals. But the pact became radioactive during the presidential campaign, as
leading candidates from both major parties denounced it as a threat to American
jobs and sovereignty. President-elect Donald J. Trump said Monday that he would
issue a notice of intent to withdraw the United States from as-yet unratified
TPP on his first day in office, and later seek bilateral trade deals with some
of its participants.

The concerns about lost jobs and decreased U.S. flexibility are valid, yet the
right answer isn't to pretend that globalization isn't happening. It's to push
global competition in a direction that works for this country as well as its
trading partners, while doing more to help American workers adapt to the new
reality. That process starts with deals such as the TPP, which requires other
nations to live by labor, environmental and intellectual property regulations
more like ours.

The free-trade pact China is pushing, though, doesn't include such standards,
and its adoption would encourage a multinational race to the bottom for wage and
hour laws, emissions limits and other rules for commerce, making it even harder
for U.S. workers to compete.

But there may be a way forward for Trump, despite his oft-stated opposition to
the pact as a "bad deal. Leaders of several TPP nations have indicated a
willingness to tweak the TPP - the kind of renegotiation he has said he wants,
although the changes ultimately may just be cosmetic. Rather than simply
withdrawing from the pact, he should accept that invitation.

The Wall Street Journal: The Trump Organization

One reason 60 million voters elected Donald Trump is because he promised to
change Washington's culture of self-dealing, and if he wants to succeed he's
going to have to make a sacrifice and lead by example. Trump has so far
indicated that he will keep his business empire but turn over management to his
children, and therein lies political danger.

Trump has for decades run the Trump Organization, and during the campaign said
if he won the Presidency he'd turn over the keys to Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka,
all of whom are now serving on the Trump transition. A company spokesperson says
the family business is "in the process of vetting various structures and that
the ultimate arrangement "will comply with all applicable rules and regulations.

Some of Trump's lawyers have called the plan a "blind trust, which past
presidents have used to protect their assets from the appearance of
conflicts-of-interest. But that setup typically involves liquid assets like
bonds and stocks, not buildings or a branding empire. Trump will know how any
given decision will affect, say, the old post office property in Washington,
D.C., that he's leasing from the federal government (another conflict). By law,
blind trusts are overseen by an independent manager, not family members.

The President is exempt from federal conflict-of-interest laws, but Trump's plan
is already hitting political turbulence. Earlier this week Ivanka Trump's
jewelry company took heat for promoting a $10,800 diamond bangle that Ms. Trump
donned during a family interview on CBS's "60 Minutes. The company chalked up
the incident to an overeager marketing executive, but this is only the beginning
of such media catcalls. By the way, Ms. Trump is married to Jared Kushner, who
could be a useful adviser in the White House.

Trump's best option is to liquidate his stake in the company. Richard Painter
and Norman Eisen, ethics lawyers for George W. Bush and President Barack Obama,
respectively, have laid out a plan, which involves a leveraged buyout or an
initial public offering.

Trump could put the cash proceeds in a true blind trust. The Trump children can
keep the assets in their name, and he can transfer more to them as long as he
pays a hefty gift tax. Finally, Trump should stipulate that he and his children
will have no communication about family business matters.

The alternatives are fraught, perhaps even for the Trump Organization's bottom
line: Thanks to a Clinton Administration precedent, presidents can face
litigation in private matters, so the company will become a supermagnet for
lawsuits. Rudy Giuliani lamented on television that divestment would put the
Trump children "out of work," but reorganizing the company may be better for
business than unending scrutiny from the press. Progressive groups will soon be
out of power, and they are already shouting that the Trump family wants to
profit from the presidency.

The political damage to a new administration could be extensive. If Trump
doesn't liquidate, he will be accused of a pecuniary motive any time he takes a
policy position. For example, the House and Senate are eager to consider tax
reform and one sticking point will be the treatment of real estate, which will
be of great interest to the Trump family business. Ditto for repealing the
Dodd-Frank financial law, interest rates and so much more.

The conflicts span the globe, including a loan from the Bank of China and likely
dealings with sovereign-wealth funds. Along the way, Trump could expose himself
to charges, however unfair, that he is violating the Constitution's Emoluments
Clause, which prohibits public officials from accepting gifts or payment from
foreign governments.

Mixing money and politics could undermine his pledge to "drain the swamp in
Washington. If a backlash allows Democrats to retake the House in 2018, Trump
and his business colleagues would field subpoenas from the House Oversight
Committee. Ranking minority member Elijah Cummings this week expressed his
enthusiasm for such a project, and answering daily questions about this can't be
how Trump wants to spend his political capital.

There is no question that a Trump business sale would be painful and perhaps
costly. We also dislike the double standard of ethics rules that put special
burdens on business folks who want to enter politics, even as public-interest
lawyers can move in and out of government without a peep of protest. Unlike
liberals, Republicans like to work in the private economy.

But this is the modern world of Washington. And remember that Hillary Clinton
lost in part because the public didn't want a president who mixed politics and
personal gain at the State Department and Clinton Foundation. Millions of
Americans have put their trust in Trump to succeed as president and improve
their lives, not treat this as a four-year hiatus from his business. The
presidential stakes are too high for Trump to let his family business become a
daily political target.

China Daily: China, the US and the TPP

In spite of the White House's continuous insistence on there being "a strong
case to make with regard to the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement, chances are
it will not get approved in the remainder of President Barack Obama's term.

However, it might be too early to announce the demise of the TPP. Despite
President-elect Donald Trump's repeated pledge to scrap it on the campaign
trail, who knows what he will do when he enters office?

Of course, Beijing is understandably relieved that the exclusive, economically
inefficient, politically antagonizing TPP is looking ever less likely to
materialize by the day. After all, the trade grouping has been essentially
driven by the United States' strategic considerations and meant to counter
China's economic influence in the Asia-Pacific.

But the U.S. should rest assured the sky will not come tumbling down even if the
TPP does get killed at the hands of the next president. Instead of lamenting,
its proponents should congratulate themselves on dodging a bullet, as the pact
is inopportune. Because, what actual benefits will the TPP bring to the U.S. as
a country and its workers, whom the deal is claimed to serve, should it go ahead
and pit Beijing and Washington more firmly against each other? Very few, if any.

The anticipated setback offers a precious opportunity for decision-makers in
both Beijing and Washington to reevaluate the state of affairs, and recalibrate
their respective approaches.

China and the U.S. are not allies, and are not likely to be in the foreseeable
future given their dramatic differences. But that does not mean they cannot be
partners.

Beijing has been persistent in pursuing peaceful co-existence with the U.S. Its
enthusiastic proposal of and insistence on a "new type of major-country
relationship between the two countries deserves something better than the TPP.

In their first conversation on the phone on Monday, Beijing time, Chinese
President Xi Jinping and Trump exchanged wishes for better ties and promises of
cooperation, which is hopefully propitious for the upcoming Trump era.

The incoming administration should realize that the more open, inclusive
Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership will turn out to be a far more
efficient vehicle for advancing U.S. interests. Washington may want to take
advantage of the nascent, evolving platform and become involved from the
rule-making stage.

U.S. influence in the Asia-Pacific will not abate if the Trump administration
chooses to engage with the region constructively.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             368 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 27, 2016, Sunday

Trump slams recount push as `a scam,' says election is over

BYLINE: Steve Peoples, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P3A

LENGTH: 651 words


The New York billionaire, who charged the election was "rigged" on a daily basis
before his victory, called the developing recount effort "a scam" in a statement
released by his transition team.

Trump had been ignoring Green Party nominee Jill Stein's fight to revisit vote
totals in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. Wisconsin officials announced
late Friday they are moving forward with the first presidential recount in state
history.

"The people have spoken and the election is over, Trump declared Saturday. He
added, "We must accept this result and then look to the future.

At the same time, Trump was scrambling to address unfilled administration jobs,
having barely scratched the surface of creating the massive team needed to run
the government before his Jan. 20 inauguration.

Experts say presidential transitions are periods of great vulnerability for the
nation, and among the vacancies on the Trump team are leaders of the departments
of State, Defense and Homeland Security.

Meanwhile, the incoming president paid little if any attention to Stein's
recount push, but Democratic rival Hillary Clinton forced his hand on Saturday
by formally joining the effort. Stein, who drew 1 percent of the vote
nationally, is raising millions of dollars to fund the recounts.

"Because we had not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or outside
attempts to alter the voting technology, we had not planned to exercise this
option ourselves, Clinton campaign attorney Marc Elias wrote Saturday in blog
post. "But now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to
participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to
all sides.

Elias said Clinton would take the same approach in Pennsylvania and Michigan if
Stein were to follow through with recount requests those states, even though
that was highly unlikely to change the election outcome.

"Regardless of the potential to change the outcome in any of the states, we feel
it is important, on principle, to ensure our campaign is legally represented in
any court proceedings and represented on the ground in order to monitor the
recount process itself, Elias wrote.

Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2 million votes, but Trump
won 290 electoral votes to Clinton's 232, with Michigan still too close to call.
It takes 270 to win the presidency.

Trump, who repeatedly challenged the integrity of the U.S. election system
before his win, called the recount push "a scam by the Green Party for an
election that has already been conceded.

"The results of this election should be respected instead of being challenged
and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is doing, he said in the statement,
which didn't mention Clinton's involvement.

Trump was spending the Thanksgiving holiday weekend with family at his Palm
Beach estate, Mar-a-Lago. He planned to return to his New York home today ahead
of a series of Monday meetings with prospective administration hires, including
Sheriff David Clarke of Milwaukee County, Wisconsin. He's seen as a possible
Homeland Security pick. Clarke's vocal opposition to the "Black Lives Matter
movement has made him popular with many conservatives.

Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence also have Monday meetings scheduled
with Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, Rep. Lou Barletta, R-Pa., former
Security and Exchange Commission commissioner Paul Atkins, World Wide Technology
chairman David Steward and General Growth Properties CEO Sandeep Mathrani.

Internal divisions over his choice for secretary of state have delayed that
critical decision. The options include former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who
lacks foreign policy experience, but was intensely loyal to Trump, and 2012
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who aggressively opposed Trump's
candidacy but is largely regarded as more qualified. Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker
is also a possibility.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             369 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 28, 2016, Monday

Top Trump adviser calls possible Romney nomination betrayal

BYLINE: Julie Pace, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P2A

LENGTH: 724 words


WASHINGTON - A top Donald Trump adviser warned Sunday that the president-elect's
supporters would feel "betrayed" if he tapped former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney as secretary of state, a move that would put a once-fierce Trump critic
in a powerful Cabinet post.

The comments from Kellyanne Conway deepened a highly unusual push by some Trump
allies to stop the president-elect from nominating Romney. The extraordinary
public nature of the effort has also stirred speculation that it could be a
Trump-approved attempt to humiliate a prominent Republican who staunchly opposed
him throughout the presidential campaign.

Conway, who served as Trump's campaign manager and is part of his transition
team, said her opposition to Romney reflected what she's been hearing from Trump
voters.

"People feel betrayed to think that Gov. Romney, who went out of his way to
question the character and the intellect and the integrity of Donald Trump, now
our president-elect, would be given the most significant cabinet post of all,
Conway said in one of several television interviews Sunday. She said Romney was
"nothing but awful to Trump for a year.

Conway's opposition to Romney is also said to be supported by Steve Bannon, the
controversial conservative media executive who will serve as Trump's White House
senior adviser.

Trump is an avid consumer of television news and his advisers and allies often
use their appearances to send messages to Trump or the Republican establishment.
Still, it's rare for Conway and other close aides who speak frequently with
Trump in private to be so explicit about their personal opinions in public.

Romney, the 2012 GOP nominee, vigorously challenged Trump's fitness for the
presidency, including his foreign policy credentials. In a wide-ranging
condemnation of Trump in March, Romney said the businessman's bombast was
"alarming the allies and fueling the enmity of our enemies.

Trump responded by mocking Romney, calling him a "choker and saying he "walks
like a penguin.

The freeze between two men appeared to thaw after they spoke by phone following
the election. Romney then traveled to Trump's New Jersey golf club for a private
meeting to discuss the possibility of joining the administration.

After the meeting, Trump was said to be taken by the way Romney "looks the part
of a globe-trotting diplomat, according to people close to the transition
process.

In nominating Romney, Trump would be signaling his willingness to heal campaign
wounds and reach out to traditional Republicans who were deeply skeptical of his
experience and temperament. Romney is well-liked by GOP lawmakers and was
supported by numerous Republican national security experts during his failed
White House bid.

But Conway suggested those weren't reasons enough to nominate Romney as the
nation's top diplomat.

"I'm all for party unity, but I'm not sure that we have to pay for that with the
secretary of state position, Conway said.

Despite the effort to discredit him, Romney is said to remain interested in
serving in Trump's Cabinet, though those close to him acknowledge his opposition
to Trump during the campaign hurt his chances.

Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who was fiercely loyal to Trump
throughout the campaign, quickly emerged as a front-runner for the secretary of
state post and is still in contention. However, questions about his overseas
business ties - as well as his own public campaigning for the job - are said to
have given Trump pause.

Giuliani is said to be frustrated by the way the process has unfolded, having
originally been led to believe he would have his pick of jobs, according to
those close to the transition. They insisted on anonymity because they were not
authorized to publicly discuss the private deliberations.

Trump's decision on his secretary of state did not appear to be imminent. And
the wrangling over Romney and Giuliani has raised the possibility that Trump may
go with a third option. His transition team has also considered Tennessee Sen.
Bob Corker and former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton for the
job.

People with knowledge of the transition process say Trump is also considering
retired Marine Gen. John Kelly for the post.

Kelly met with the president-elect last week.

Conway appeared Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press, ABC's "This Week, and CNN's
"State of the Union.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             370 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 29, 2016, Tuesday

Warren blasts drug approval legislation as `extortion'

BYLINE: Alan Fram, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P6C

LENGTH: 703 words


WASHINGTON - Sen. Elizabeth Warren delivered a ferocious attack Monday on
congressional Republicans and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell over a
medical research bill, and put fellow Democrats on the spot by pushing them to
oppose a measure she said "is corrupt, and it is very, very dangerous."

As Congress began the final stretch of its post-election session, Warren said
the 996-page measure - a top priority for GOP leaders and backed by the
biomedical industry - was riddled with provisions that she called "a bunch of
special giveaways" to big pharmaceutical companies.

"They didn't send us here to whimper, whine or grovel," she said on the Senate
floor about Democrats, using the populist rhetoric that has given her one of her
party's highest profiles. "They sent us here to say no to efforts to sell
Congress to the highest bidder."

Warren, D-Mass., said voters are "hoping we show some spine and start fighting
back when Congress completely ignores the message of the American people."

She said the research bill would "legalize fraud by reducing the scientific
evidence the government needs to approve existing drugs for new uses. She said
it would "cover up bribery by exempting medical companies from publicly
reporting some payments they make to doctors.

Those provisions, she said, outweighed the "tiny fig leaf of additional money
the bill provides for biomedical research and combating abuse of addictive
opioid drugs.

"I cannot vote for this bill. I will fight it because I know the difference
between compromise and extortion, said Warren, who some mention as a potential
2020 presidential contender.

Warren's comments came with Democrats in the early stages of decoding their
lesson from this month's elections. Hillary Clinton shockingly lost her White
House bid to Republican Donald Trump and Democrats remained in the House and
Senate minority, making only small gains in each chamber.

Warren is expected to try tugging her party toward more progressive policies,
while some more moderate Democrats are emphasizing the need to appeal to the
type of working-class white voters who helped Trump win Midwestern states
carried in recent elections by Democrats.

The House plans to vote on the research legislation Wednesday, with Senate
consideration expected next week.

The measure calls for spending $6.3 billion over the next decade, including $4.8
billion for research at the National Institutes of Health. There is also $1
billion for grants to states for drug abuse prevention and research, and $500
million for the Food and Drug Administration to accelerate drug and medical
device approval processes.

Warren said the bill benefits a Republican donor who backs contentious therapies
that are supposed to regenerate cells. She did not name the donor during her
speech but said McConnell, R-Ky., has accepted contributions from him.

A McConnell spokesman declined to comment.

No. 2 Senate GOP leader John Cornyn of Texas, on the Senate floor as Warren
spoke, criticized her for making "a political speech and launching "personal
attacks on senators and called her comments "beneath the dignity of the United
States Senate.

McConnell said this month that the overall bill is a major priority for
Congress' lame-duck session and singled out its provisions helping regenerative
medicine.

A Warren spokesman said later that Warren was referring to an April report by
Politico that said separate legislation helping companies get approval for
stem-cell treatments was backed by Ed Bosarge, a wealthy Texan. The report said
Bosarge has donated to McConnell's political committee and invested in
regenerative medicine.

Top Republicans announced the mammoth research bill last week, more than a year
after the House by an overwhelmingly bipartisan margin approved an earlier
version.

Most Democrats have not said whether they support the measure, though others
also are expected to object to it.

One of the few public objections Monday came from Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa,
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. He said he wanted the removal of the
provision letting companies not report some payments to doctors, which consumer
groups have complained encourage doctors to prescribe those companies' products.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             371 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 29, 2016, Tuesday

No evidence seen to back Trump;
President-elect charges, without evidence, millions voted illegally

BYLINE: Julie Pace and Catherine Lucey, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P6A

LENGTH: 771 words


INSIDE:

editorial on

Trump's

claims

4A

NEW YORK - President-elect Donald Trump is claiming, without evidence, that
millions of people voted illegally in the election he won, issuing the baseless
claim as part of his angry response to a recount effort led by the Green Party
and joined by Hillary Clinton's campaign.

"I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted
illegally, Trump tweeted Sunday. He later alleged "serious voter fraud in
Virginia, New Hampshire and California.

Trump's transition team did not provide any evidence to back up the
president-elect's assertions of fraud in the November election. They pointed
only to past charges of irregularities in voter registration.

Sen. James Lankford, R-Okla., said Monday he had "not seen any voter
irregularity in the millions.

"I don't know what he was talking about on that one, Lankford said of Trump on
CNN's "New Day.

Indeed, there has been no evidence of widespread tampering or hacking that would
change the results of the presidential contest between Trump and Clinton. The
Democrat's team said it had been looking for abnormalities and found nothing
that would alter the results.

Still, Clinton's campaign was joining a recount led by Green Party candidate
Jill Stein in up to three states. The Wisconsin Elections Commission voted
unanimously Monday to approve a recount that could begin Thursday, after payment
is received from Stein and an independent candidate also requesting a recount.
Recounts are possible in Pennsylvania and Michigan as well.

"We intend to participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner
that is fair to all sides, Clinton campaign attorney Marc Elias said.

Trump narrowly won Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and, as of last Wednesday, held a
lead of almost 11,000 votes in Michigan, with the results awaiting state
certification Monday. All three would need to flip to Clinton to upend the
Republican's victory, and Clinton's team says Trump has a larger edge in all
three states than has ever been overcome in a presidential recount.

After spending the Thanksgiving holiday in Florida, Trump was back in New York
for meetings with potential Cabinet nominees. His team was divided over his
choices for secretary of state, particularly the prospect that Trump could tap
2012 GOP nominee Mitt Romney for the prominent post.

Romney is scheduled to hold his second in-person meeting with Trump on Tuesday.
But the president-elect is also looking at other options, meeting Monday with
retired Gen. David Petraeus and on Tuesday with Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, the
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

In an unusual public airing of internal machinations, Trump senior adviser
Kellyanne Conway warned Sunday that the president-elect's supporters would feel
"betrayed if he tapped Romney as secretary of state. Romney denounced Trump in
scathing terms during the campaign, prompting Trump to call him a "choker who
"walks like a penguin.

The spectacle of close aides who speak frequently with Trump in private being so
explicit about their personal opinions in public raised the possibility that
Conway was acting at Trump's behest.

People involved in the transition process said Trump's decision on his secretary
of state did not appear to be imminent. Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani
was initially seen as the favorite for the diplomatic post, but Trump is said to
have grown irritated by questions about Giuliani's international business ties,
as well as the mayor's public campaigning for the job.

Even with major administration decisions looming, Trump seems preoccupied by the
prospect of a recount.

"Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the
victory speech and after the results were in, He tweeted Sunday. "Nothing will
change.

He quoted from Clinton's concession speech - "We owe him an open mind and the
chance to lead - and he concluded: "So much time and money will be spent - same
result! Sad.

On NBC's "Meet the Press, Conway said Stein, "the Hillary people and others
supporting recounts have to decide whether they are going to back a peaceful
transition "or if they're going to be a bunch of crybabies and sore losers about
an election that they can't turn around.

Clinton's lawyer said her team has been combing through the results since the
election in search of anomalies that would suggest hacking by Russians or others
and found "no actionable evidence. But "we feel it is important, on principle,
to ensure our campaign is legally represented in any court proceedings and
represented on the ground in order to monitor the recount process itself, he
said.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             372 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 29, 2016, Tuesday

Black America still in bondage; a smart vote trumps emotions

BYLINE: Charles Minimah

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 718 words


The African American community remains in bondage and has, increasingly been
oppressed in the American society, with the negligible advances made canceled by
massive setbacks. First, we must understand the reality on the ground and its
underlying causes.

Very early in the 2016 presidential race, the news media made appalling
miscalculations which wrongly projected winners and losers based on preconceived
notions and norms of the establishment politics. In their view, Donald Trump had
no chance whatsoever, let alone becoming the nominee of the Republican Party.
But all that is behind us and today Trump has been elected the 45th President of
the United States. He faces a rocky road ahead and will be tested vehemently on
America's racial divide.

Let's put a few things in perspective and begin with President Abraham Lincoln,
who is credited with the Emancipation Proclamation and ending slavery. Until the
1960s, those fighting for civil rights for blacks were Republicans, including
very prominent black people like Fredrick Douglass, Harriett Tubman, Sojourner
Truth and the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., to name a few.

On the other hand, the segregationists were all Democrats. It's disappointing
because, Congressional records show that the Democrats were strongly opposed to
the passage of the 13th, 14th, 15th Amendments. Republicans introduced these
three Amendments to abolish slavery, give citizenship to blacks born in the US
and the right to vote.

There's no doubt that African Americans fell victim and bought into President
Lyndon Johnson's Great Society and War on Poverty initiative as a safety net
that later destroyed the black family. He was quoted several times, as saying,
"we'll have those&voting Democrat for 200 years&, when he instituted the welfare
state that created a culture of dependency and victimhood in the black
community.

Single-mother households became a profitable venture to claim larger welfare
checks. Absent the father figure doomed the household; a dynamic that lead to
dysfunctional families which brought about uncontrollable crime activities and
high rates of black youth incarceration. We need not look further than the inner
cities of America, for evidence of Democratic Party neglect of the blacks.

Looking forward, Donald Trump's remark to the African American community, "What
have you got to lose, was a direct challenge to the exploitation of black
loyalty to the Democratic Party. Many took the remark as insult, but it should
be seen as an opportunity to remedy serious issues within our community.

Trump's anti-establishment posture gives me hope that real change will be
archived by his administration without interference or cronyism. There are some
changes that would radically alter the fortunes of the black community and the
opportunity is here for Trump to tackle and hopefully, resolve some lingering
issues.

He can archive a lot with a Republican Congress. Frankly, he can turn the tide
and reverse the negative perception of his party toward blacks. This is
Republicans' best hope for change. Here are some solutions that could work with
an eye to saving the next generation of black children from on-going enslavement
practices in the 21st century:

-Develop a plan with realistic alternatives towards winding down welfare as a
way of life.

-Provide Tax Amnesty for Small Businesses (not a bailout) across the board to
re-energize entrepreneurship, with perhaps, additional incentives for areas hard
hit with poverty.

-Incentivize vocational schools toward aforementioned entrepreneurship
opportunity.

-Develop inmate release plans for non-violent offenders with time line to
expunge criminal record.

-Encourage two-parent working families with a revised tax code.

-Introduce ex-offender CCC model to revitalize inner city America.

A rising tide lifts all boats and thus, African-American and Latino communities
must be included in the prosperity that a disrupter or non-conformist such as
Trump, offers. The election of the first African-American president was welcomed
with high hopes and optimism in the black communities, yet the dream fell short
because it lacks evidence of black prosperity. I am confident that America will
get it right if President Trump stands tall and rejects the notion of a divided
nation.

Charles Minimah lives in Charleston.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             373 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           November 29, 2016, Tuesday

Dictionary.com's word of the year is `xenophobia'

BYLINE: Leanne Italie, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P2A

LENGTH: 487 words


NEW YORK - You might have thought about it, heard it. A lot. You might have even
felt it: Dictionary.com's word of the year is "xenophobia."

While it's difficult to get at exactly why people look up words in dictionaries,
online or on paper, it's clear that in contentious 2016, fear of "otherness
bruised the collective consciousness around the globe.

The Brexit vote, police violence against people of color, Syria's refugee
crisis, transsexual rights and the U.S. presidential race were among prominent
developments that drove debate - and spikes in lookups of the word, said Jane
Solomon, one of the dictionary site's lexicographers.

The 21-year-old site defines xenophobia as "fear or hatred of foreigners, people
from different cultures, or strangers. And it plans to expand its entry to
include fear or dislike of "customs, dress and cultures of people with
backgrounds different from our own, Solomon said in a recent interview.

The word didn't enter the English language until the late 1800s, she said. Its
roots are in two Greek words - "xenos, meaning "stranger or guest, and "phobos,
meaning "fear or panic, Solomon added.

The interest was clear June 24, within a period that represents the largest
spike in lookups of xenophobia so far this year. That was the day of Brexit,
when the UK voted to leave the European Union.

Searches for xenophobia on the site increased by 938 percent from June 22 to
June 24, Solomon said. Lookups spiked again that month after President Obama's
June 29 speech in which he insisted that Donald Trump's campaign rhetoric was
not a measure of "populism, but rather "nativism, or xenophobia, or worse.

Solomon added that chatter about xenophobia goes well beyond the spikes.

"It has been significant throughout the year, she said. "But after the EU
referendum, hundreds and hundreds of users were looking up the term every hour.

Robert Reich, who served in the administrations of Presidents Gerald Ford and
Jimmy Carter and was President Clinton's labor secretary, felt so strongly about
xenophobia's prominence today that he appears in a video for Dictionary.com
discussing its ramifications.

"I don't think most people even know what xenophobia is, Reich, who teaches
public policy at the University of California, Berkeley, said in an interview.
"It's a word not to be celebrated but to be deeply concerned about.

Solomon's site, based in Oakland, California, started choosing a word of the
year in 2010, based on search data and agreement of in-house experts that
include a broad swath of the company, from lexicographers to the marketing and
product teams to the CEO, Liz McMillan.

The word and the sentiment reflect a broader mournful tone to 2016, with Oxford
dictionary editors choosing "post-truth as their word of the year, often
described in terms of politics as belonging to a time in which truth has become
irrelevant.

"I wish, Solomon said, "we could have chosen a word like unicorns.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             374 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                          November 30, 2016, Wednesday

Trump taps `Obamacare' foe to direct DHHS

BYLINE: Steve Peoples and Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P8A

LENGTH: 1004 words


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump is enlisting a trio of nominees with
deep ties to Washington and Wall Street to fill out his Cabinet, including
former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as secretary of the Treasury
Department.

On Tuesday, Trump also chose Georgia Rep. Tom Price to oversee the nation's
health care system, picking a fierce "Obamacare" critic who has championed
efforts to privatize Medicare. And he selected another veteran Republican,
Elaine Chao, a former labor secretary and the wife of Senate Majority Leader
Mitch McConnell, to lead the Department of Transportation.

Mnuchin's official announcement was expected as early as Wednesday, according to
a person familiar with the decision who insisted on anonymity in order to
confirm the pick ahead of time.

Mnuchin, 53, led Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign and
become close with the president-elect and his family. But he has no government
experience, which could prove a hurdle in navigating the tricky politics of
Washington.

If confirmed by the Senate, Mnuchin would play a central role in shaping Trump's
tax policies and infrastructure plans. He would also lead an agency tasked with
implementing international economic sanctions.

Mnuchin is expected to be joined on Trump's senior economic team by another
financier, Wilbur Ross. The billionaire investor is considered the "king of
bankruptcy for buying beaten-down companies with the potential to deliver
profits.

Trump spent much of Tuesday in his Manhattan skyscraper, racing through meetings
with prospective administration hires as high-profile vacancies remain - none
bigger than secretary of state. He emerged in the evening for a private dinner
with former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, who is on the shortlist for the
nation's chief diplomat.

Romney spoke briefly to reporters after the meal, saying he has "increasing hope
that Trump can lead the country to a "better future.

Price, picked to lead the Department of Health and Human Services after more
than a decade in Congress, helped craft House Speaker Paul Ryan's plan to
privatize Medicare - a position Trump opposed in the campaign.

Price's selection raised questions about the incoming president's commitment to
Medicare, among other popular entitlement programs he repeatedly vowed to
preserve before the election. The Georgia congressman led GOP efforts on Capitol
Hill to transform Medicare into a voucher-like system, a change that if enacted,
would likely dramatically reduce government spending on the health care program
that serves an estimated 57 million people.

Trump did not address Price's position on Medicare in a statement released by
his transition team. The team did not respond to subsequent questions about it.

"Chairman Price, a renowned physician, has earned a reputation for being a
tireless problem solver and the go-to expert on health care policy, making him
the ideal choice to serve in this capacity, Trump said. "He is exceptionally
qualified to shepherd our commitment to repeal and replace Obamacare and bring
affordable and accessible health care to every American.

Trump, in a 2015 interview promoted on his campaign website, pledged not to cut
expensive entitlement programs that Republicans have fought for years to cut to
help reduce the federal deficit.

"I'm not going to cut Social Security like every other Republican. And I'm not
going to cut Medicare or Medicaid. Every other Republican's going to cut, Trump
told the Daily Signal.

He later changed his mind on Medicaid, embracing the GOP concept of turning the
program over to the states with a fixed amount of federal "block grant funding.

Like any Cabinet official, Price would carry out the wishes of the president.
And a sweeping Medicare initiative would have to go through Congress with some
Democratic support, which would be unlikely.

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders charged that Price "has a long history of wanting to
do exactly the opposite of what Trump campaigned on.

Like Price, Elaine Chao is well-known in Washington. She was the first
Asian-American woman to serve in a president's Cabinet, as labor secretary under
George W. Bush.

Her record in that post suggests she would bring a light hand to safety
enforcement as transportation secretary. Under Chao at Labor, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration didn't issue a single significant new safety
regulation for four years. Mine safety inspectors were cut and inspections
reduced.

Whether it's integrating drones into the national airspace, deploying
self-driving cars or "some other new technology, she's not going to be
especially inclined to second guess the industry when they say that this will be
safe, said Thomas McGarity, a University of Texas law professor and author of
"Freedom to Harm, a book about the Labor Department that includes Chao's tenure.

Mnuchin, Price and Chao would require Senate confirmation.

The president-elect summoned Romney for dinner Tuesday night to discuss the
secretary of state job for a second time. He also met with Tennessee Sen. Bob
Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, having met with
former CIA director David Petraeus the day before.

After his meeting, Corker told reporters, "The world needs to know that the
secretary of state is someone who speaks fully for the president, a possible jab
at Romney, who aggressively opposed Trump's candidacy.

Transition aides said Trump was likely at least a few days away from a decision.

Even as he weighed crucial Cabinet decisions, Trump appeared distracted by
outside issues - or eager to create distractions himself. He tweeted that
"nobody should be allowed to burn the American flag. He warned that those who do
should face "perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!

Trump offered no context for his message.

The Supreme Court has ruled that flag burning is protected by the First
Amendment, and Republican House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy said Tuesday he
doesn't support Trump's approach.

"I support the First Amendment, he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             375 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                          November 30, 2016, Wednesday

Carrier says it has deal with Trump to keep jobs in Indiana

BYLINE: Julie Pace, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P2A

LENGTH: 492 words


WASHINGTON - Air conditioning company Carrier Corp. said Tuesday that it had
reached a deal with President-elect Donald Trump to keep nearly 1,000 jobs in
Indiana. Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence planned to travel to the
state Thursday to unveil the agreement alongside company officials.

Trump spent much of his campaign pledging to keep companies like Carrier from
moving jobs overseas. His focus on manufacturing jobs contributed to his
unexpected appeal with working-class voters in states like Michigan, which has
long voted for Democrats in presidential elections.

The details of the agreement were unclear. Carrier tweeted that the company was
"pleased to have reached a deal with Trump and Pence to stay in Indianapolis.

A transition official confirmed that the president-elect and Pence, who is
ending his tenure as Indiana governor, would appear with Carrier officials
Thursday. The official insisted on anonymity because the official was not
authorized to discuss the trip ahead of an official announcement.

Trump said last week that he was "making progress on keeping Carrier in Indiana.

In February, Carrier said it would shutter its Indianapolis plant employing
1,400 workers and move its manufacturing to Mexico. The plant's workers would
have been laid off over three years starting in 2017.

United Technologies Electronic Controls also announced then that it planned to
move its Huntington manufacturing operations to a new plant in Mexico, costing
the northeastern Indiana city 700 jobs by 2018.

Those workers make microprocessor-based controls for the HVAC and refrigeration
industries.

Carrier and UTEC are both units of Hartford, Connecticut-based United
Technologies Corp.

In a September debate against Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, Trump railed
against Carrier's plans.

"So many hundreds and hundreds of companies are doing this, Trump said. "We have
to stop our jobs from being stolen from us. We have to stop our companies from
leaving the United States.

Carrier wasn't the only company Trump assailed during the campaign. He pledged
to give up Oreos after Nabisco's parent, Mondelez International, said it would
replace nine production lines in Chicago with four in Mexico. He criticized Ford
after the company said it planned to invest $2.5 billion in engine and
transmission plants in Mexico.

Chuck Jones, president of United Steelworkers Local 1999, which represents
Carrier workers, said of Tuesday's news: "I'm optimistic, but I don't know what
the situation is. I guess it's a good sign. ... You would think they would keep
us in the loop. But we know nothing.

The event Thursday in Indiana will be a rare public appearance for Trump, who
has spent nearly his entire tenure as president-elect huddled with advisers and
meeting with possible Cabinet secretaries. He plans to make other stops later
this week as part of what advisers have billed as a "thank you" tour for voters
who backed him in the presidential campaign.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             376 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           December 1, 2016, Thursday

Is Trump `draining the swamp' or diving in?

BYLINE: Julie Pace and Josh Boak, The Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. P2C

LENGTH: 854 words


WASHINGTON - Donald Trump promised to "drain the swamp" in the nation's capital.
Instead, he's diving right in.

So far, the president-elect is tapping people with deep ties to Washington and
Wall Street as he fills out his Cabinet, turning to two power centers he
vilified as greedy, corrupt and out of touch with Americans during his White
House campaign. His choices have won praise from Republicans relieved by his
more conventional choices, but could risk angering voters who rallied behind his
calls for upending the political system.

Two of Trump's early picks are wealthy financial industry insiders with ties to
the kinds of institutions he railed against as a candidate. Elaine Chao, his
choice for transportation secretary and an accomplished political figure in her
own right, is married to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell -blending family
and political power in a way Trump fiercely criticized campaign rival Hillary
Clinton for. Jeff Sessions, Trump's selection for attorney general, has spent
two decades in the Senate, and Tom Price, his health and human services nominee,
is a six-term congressman.

The gap between Trump's campaign rhetoric and his governing decisions is most
striking regarding his emerging economic team. On Wednesday, he announced that
he planned to nominate former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as his
Treasury secretary and billionaire investor Wilbur Ross to lead the Commerce
Department.

As a candidate, Trump said Wall Street had created "tremendous problems" for the
country. He included the CEO of Goldman Sachs in a television advertisement that
accused global financial powers of having "robbed our working class."

Mnuchin and Ross also have financial links to Trump's White House bid, with
Mnuchin having led the campaign's fundraising efforts. Trump repeatedly bragged
that his personal wealth - he mostly self-funded his campaign during the
primaries - meant he would not be beholden to donors who might expect their
financial contributions to be repaid with powerful jobs or insider access.

"I can't be bought, Trump said during the campaign. "I won't owe anybody
anything.

Trump's transition team brushed aside questions about whether there are
inconsistencies between the president-elect's campaign rhetoric and his Cabinet
picks.

"These are experts who know how to win, spokesman Jason Miller said Wednesday.

By picking billionaires, as well as a smattering of millionaires, for his
Cabinet, Trump is asking voters to trust that privileged insiders can help a
stressed and dispirited middle class - even though he, like past presidential
candidates, promised he would change that dynamic. Few of his choices have
outwardly displayed much of a common touch. Many live surrounded by a level of
wealth that most Americans struggle to fathom - and prospered in recent decades
as many Americans coped with stagnant incomes.

Not only did Mnuchin once work at Goldman Sachs, but so did his father. After
leaving the investment bank in 2002, the Yale graduate pivoted into hedge fund
management and producing blockbuster movies such as "Batman vs Superman: Dawn of
Justice. Mnuchin invested in the wreckage of the housing crisis, scooping up the
troubled bank IndyMac and turning a $1.6 billion profit in under a year as
millions of Americans endured foreclosure.

Ross orbits a similar world as Trump, as both of them have luxurious homes in
Manhattan and Palm Beach, Florida. The billionaire investor bought up many
struggling steel, auto and coal firms in the industrial Midwest at a steep
discount and sold them for steep profits, even as factory and mining jobs at the
core of American identity disappeared.

Chao is the offspring of a Chinese shipping magnate, in addition to serving on
the boards of Wells Fargo bank, Dole Food and News Corp., the parent of Fox
News. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, the wealthiest of Trump's Cabinet
nominees thus far, married into the family that started the sales company Amway.

Trump and other Republicans spent months warning voters that a possible Clinton
administration would be lined with Wall Street insiders, campaign donors and
other special interest hires. But GOP officials have raised no such concerns
about Trump's picks.

If anything, some Republicans appear relieved. Many of Trump's picks are cut
from a more traditional Republican mold and share the party's ideological
preferences, in some cases more so than Trump himself.

"The picks so far have been fantastic and well-received by Republicans and
conservatives of all stripes, said Cesar Conda, the former chief of staff for
Florida Sen. Marco Rubio. "Trump is unifying the party, which is essential to
getting his agenda enacted.

House Speaker Paul Ryan, a lukewarm Trump supporter for much of the campaign,
praised the economic picks Wednesday, saying he was "excited to get to work with
this strong team.

Trump is still weighing his choices for several Cabinet posts, including
secretary of state. Among the leading contenders: millionaire businessman Mitt
Romney, the 2012 GOP presidential nominee, and millionaire lawyer Rudy Giuliani,
the former New York City mayor.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             377 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                           December 1, 2016, Thursday

House OKs sweeping biomedical research bill

BYLINE: Alan Fram, The Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 878 words


WASHINGTON - The House easily approved a sweeping biomedical bill Wednesday that
would help drug and medical device companies win swifter government approval of
their products, boost disease research and drug-abuse spending and revamp
federal mental health programs.

The compromise, which envisions spending $6.3 billion over the next decade, was
condemned by consumer groups and some Democrats as a present to drugmakers that
promised only paltry spending increases for underfunded federal programs.

But their objections were overwhelmed by an alliance among Republicans, many
Democrats and the White House for a 996-page measure that bore wins for both
parties. The Senate's expected final approval next week would mark an uncommon
episode of cooperation between the GOP-run 114th Congress - which plans to
adjourn next week - and President Barack Obama in their dwindling days in
office.

The vote was 392-26.

"We are on the cusp of something special, a once-in-a-generation opportunity to
transform how we treat disease, said Rep. Fred Upton, R-Mich., chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce Committee and an author of the legislation.

Not everyone agreed.

Rep. Rose DeLauro, D-Conn., said that while the bill contained "noble goals that
I share, its relaxation of some standards for federal drug approvals was
dangerous and "neglects the very people clinical trials are meant to help, that
is the patients.

No. 2 Senate Democratic leader Richard Durbin of Illinois said he was "totally
underwhelmed by the bill's extra money, and said its cuts in a disease
prevention fund created under Obama's health care law to finance new medical
research displayed "a warped sense of justice.

But Democratic hopes - and leverage - for winning more money and consumer
protections faded with Republican Donald Trump's presidential election triumph.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., flatly said his chamber will send
the measure to Obama, and Durbin said he expected Senate passage.

In a written statement, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said the bill "is not
perfect but contains "advances in health that far outweigh these concerns. He
said the Senate should approve it quickly.

The bill includes an additional $4.8 billion over the next 10 years for the
National Institutes of Health. The medical research agency spends around $32
billion annually, and supporters complain that spending cuts imposed by Congress
and rising research costs mean its budget has eroded in value since the early
2000s.

"A couple billion dollars doesn't go very far in cancer research over 10 years,
said Lisa Plymate, a director of the liberal-leaning National Physicians
Alliance.

Much of the NIH money would be for Obama's precision medicine initiative, aimed
at tailoring drugs for people's genes and lifestyles, and research on cancer, a
focus of Vice President Joe Biden, whose son Beau died of the disease in 2015.

The bill would also sharpen the federal focus on mental health efforts, such as
creating new posts for government officials who would coordinate such
initiatives. But it has little new money for those programs.

"We didn't get everything we needed, said Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Pa., sponsor of
those provisions. "We'll keep pushing that.

The measure included funds and an accelerated Food and Drug Administration
approval process for techniques aimed at regenerating cells. McConnell has
supported those provisions, but critics have condemned the treatments as
ineffective.

The Food and Drug Administration would get $500 million to streamline approval
processes for drugs and medical devices. States would get $1 billion over the
next two years for preventing and treating abuse of addictive drugs like
opioids, a problem that is surging in GOP and Democratic represented communities
around the country.

Among those who've said they oppose the bill are two of the Senate's best-known
populist figures, Sens. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., and Bernie Sanders, I-Vt.
They say it's a giveaway to drug companies.

"The No. 1 thing we can do right now is to make sure we're dedicating resources
to expand access to treatment all across the country, Michael Botticelli,
director of the White House's Office of National Drug Control Policy, said in a
conference call with reporters.

Democrats and consumer groups were upset with the bill's streamlining of some
Food and Drug Administration processes, including making it easier for companies
to win approval for some antibiotic drugs, some medical devices considered
breakthroughs and for fresh uses of some existing medicines.

Rep. Frank Pallone of New Jersey, top Democrat on the Energy and Commerce panel,
acknowledged Democrats' complaints that it would take future legislation to
actually provide the money the bill promises. He said he would pressure
Republicans to approve the funds and said of the overall measure, "The benefits
outweigh my concerns.

The bill was backed by scores of patient groups and industry organizations
including PhRMA, representing leading pharmaceutical firms and AdvaMed, the
trade association for device makers.

Among those who've said they oppose the bill are two of the Senate's best-known
populist figures, Sens. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., and Bernie Sanders, I-Vt.
They say it's a giveaway to drug companies.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers


                             378 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Promises, promises, promises

BYLINE: Rick Hampson@rickhampsonUSA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 943 words


President-elect Donald Trump is backing off some of his more dramatic campaign
promises, but -- and don't breathe a word of this to George H.W. Bush -- neither
his supporters nor his opponents seem very upset.

Studies show that most presidential candidates have honored most of their
campaign promises. Once elected, however, everyone compromises, backtracks or
fudges to some extent.

Trump will be no exception, judging from his comments during the past week. He's
said he wouldn't necessarily build a wall along every inch of the Mexican
border; would focus deportation efforts not on all undocumented immigrants but
on those with criminal records; and try to retain some redeeming facets of
Obamacare.

For a variety of reasons -- including his supporters' love of him, his
opponents' hatred of his proposals and a general acknowledgment that Trump is
best taken seriously but not literally -- this president may prove more immune
than most to the political cost of broken promises.

John McGlennon, who teaches government at the College of William & Mary, says,
"Both sides are willing to give him more flexibility than a conventional
candidate would be allowed."

More, certainly, than the 41st president got. Bush failed to win re-election in
1992 after campaigning in 1988 on a promise -- "Read my lips: No new taxes!'' --
he later broke.

Possibly because few major presidential candidates have made such drastic
proposals, many Trump opponents are relieved he apparently won't try to do
everything he said he'd do. Many Trump supporters say they never really expected
him to do everything he said he'd do.

First, some Trump opponents:

"I prayed that he would have a change of heart, that he'd realize that some
things he said he'd do he cannot do," such as vaporize the Affordable Care Act,
says Angelina Iles, a retired school employee who lives in Pineville, La. and
voted for Hillary Clinton.

David Bugh of Lancaster, Ohio, a pastor and small business owner, says he was
afraid after Trump passed 270 electoral votes. Given signs of what he calls
Trump's "moderation," he says, "I'm a little less pessimistic now."

Even a die-hard Never-Trumper such as Democrat Rich Langan of Ashwaubenon, Wis.,
a retired police officer, says he's trying to keep an open mind: "I'll give him
six months."

As for the Trump supporters:

Despite some fiery campaign rhetoric, "once he's in office, he'll soften up on
pretty much everything," says Barry Fixler, who opened his own Trump
headquarters in Bardonia, N.Y.

That's fine with Fixler, a jeweler. "In his heart, Trump loves people. He won't
do anything to drastically affect people," such as non-criminal undocumented
immigrants. "He's not going to throw out children. He's just going after the
criminals and ISIS.''

Many Trump voters say their man's opponents were spooked by his campaign
promises because they didn't understand how he works. Gene Dunn is a longtime
Trump admirer who took his son out of school to attend Trump's presidential
campaign announcement at Trump Tower. Trump's campaign promises were "standard
The Art of the Deal practice," he says, referring to Trump's 1987 best seller.
"Asking for the whole enchilada, but settling for what's reasonable. And all
sides can claim victory."

A.D. Amar, an Indian immigrant and business professor who lives in Warren, N.J.,
agrees that many of Trump's promises were really opening gambits: "That is
Trump's style as a negotiator. He throws the extreme negative outcome at his
opponents. This brings them to the table, and then whatever they get after the
negotiation is better than what Trump originally threw at them."

Here's how President-elect Trump has been rewriting candidate Trump:

Some elements of the Affordable Care Act, which he'd promised to repeal and
replace, are worth keeping. He cited provisions requiring coverage of
pre-existing medical conditions and allowing children to remain on parents'
plans until they turn 26. "I like those very much," Trump told The Wall Street
Journal.

Some undocumented immigrants are "terrific people," and his priorities are 1)
securing the border and 2) deporting criminals. The number of undocumented
immigrants is about 11million; criminals in that group number anywhere from
800,000 to several million.

Some sections of the "big beautiful wall" he's vowed to build along the border
might actually look more like fencing.

If and when Americans try to pin candidate Trump's promises to President Trump,
they will have their work cut out for them, says John Baick, who teaches
American political history at Western New England University in Springfield,
Mass.

One problem is  volume -- the "many, many promises made on the campaign trail,"
Baick says. "There is almost certainly no candidate who has produced more
verbiage, in person and in digital form, than Donald Trump."

Another is the lack of specifics. Trump, Baick says, "can claim that he has kept
many simply by taking symbolic steps." It may be enough if Trump starts to build
the wall, just as John F. Kennedy gets credit for starting a man-on-the-moon
program not scheduled for completion until after what would have been his second
term.

Trump may already have kept his biggest, most emotional promise to supporters,
McGlennon says: "As long as they feel he'll bring an end to business as usual in
Washington, they'll worry about the details later on.''

But there will be a later on.

McGlennon says that although there's merit to the idea that Trump spoke to his
supporters in ways that should not be taken literally, "the question is how long
the public will be satisfied with that. At some point, people want specifics. Is
Trump disciplined enough to provide them?''

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             379 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Keeping track of Trump's promises

BYLINE: Heidi M. PrzybylaUSA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 863 words


Presidential candidates often make campaign promises they can't deliver once in
power.Usually they wait until they take office to publicly change their minds.
Within days of winning the election, President-elect Donald Trump has
backpedaled on some core domestic positions to a degree that may be
unprecedented, according to historians."I've never seen anything quite like
this: so quickly backtracking on the signature issues on which he ran," said
Allan Lichtman, the presidential historian at American University who forecast
Trump's victory over Hillary Clinton."Nothing comes to mind of a president-elect
beginning to issue a series of, if not retractions, modifications, so rapidly,"
said Bruce Buchanan, a University of Texas historian who's written several books
on the presidency.Trump's policy shifts offer signs as to how he may govern as
the most unpredictable candidate in recent history to arrive at 1600
Pennsylvania Ave. The real estate billionaire ran a campaign largely on
personality -- casting himself as the populist hero of a forgotten working
class, even breaking with party orthodoxy in pledging to reject Social Security
cuts that his party insists are necessary to preserve the program.  Trump will
lean heavily on the same establishment Republican leadership he disparaged to
craft his domestic agenda.

"I wouldn't be surprised to see lots of rewriting of Trump proposals with
congressional input," Buchanan said.During the campaign, many of Trump's
advisers were "not aware of how to frame legislation and what's possible and
what's not," Buchanan said. "We're still in the blush of the honeymoon stage and
will be for a while. But a lot of the stuff he talked about isn't going to
happen."

DOMESTIC

POLICIES

Protecting the safety net

Congressional Republicans led by House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., have long
wanted to rewrite social safety net programs. That would result in cuts to
programs such as Social Security and Medicare, which account for at least half
of the federal budget, that Trump's working-class voters disproportionately rely
on.  Although Trump vowed not to cut Medicare or Medicaid, according to his
transition website, he wants to "modernize Medicare," borrowing language
Republicans have long used.

It's difficult to know what the Trump administration will do. Unlike
presidential teams before them, Trump's people have held no news conferences
since the election to clarify their plans. Among items he campaigned on missing
from his website is his vow to allow Americans to import prescription drugs from
other countries where they're sold at lower prices.

Investigations

Trump vowed to appoint a special prosecutor "immediately, immediately,
immediately" to investigate Hillary Clinton, even saying during a debate that if
he was elected, Clinton would be "in jail." As a result, the Democratic nominee
was taunted by protesters wielding "lock her up" signs -- though she was cleared
by the FBI of any criminal charges related to her email server. In his first
television interview after the election, Trump seemed to reject the idea of a
special prosecutor and sounded like the Trump of five years ago, when he praised
the Clintons as a great family. "I don't want to hurt them, I don't want to hurt
them," Trump told CBS News.

Immigration

Trump has refused to answer questions about his proposed Muslim ban -- it is not
listed on his website under the immigration tab -- and it's unclear how his
deportation policy would differ from current law. In the CBS interview, Trump
said he wants to immediately deport 2 million to 3 million undocumented
immigrants who are "gang members, drug dealers" or have other criminal
convictions.

The Migration Policy Institute estimates there are roughly 11million immigrants
in the USA illegally and 820,000 of them have criminal records. Trump's policy
is in line with orders Obama gave when he first took office to prioritize
deportation of immigrants with criminal convictions, which led to a record
number of deportations.

Repealing Obamacare

On the stump, Trump made repealing and replacing the "disaster" of Obamacare a
key talking point, warning it will "destroy American health care forever." As
president-elect, Trump told The Wall Street Journal he was reconsidering his
stance after a meeting with Obama, who urged him to protect parts of the law.
Trump said he would like to keep the provisions forbidding discrimination based
on pre-existing conditions and allowing young Americans to remain on their
parents' health care plans. "Either Obamacare will be amended, or repealed and
replaced," he told the Journal.

Coal jobs

Trump promised  during his campaign to bring back coal jobs, calling himself the
"last shot for the miners" and vowing to undo  clean energy regulations. It was
a winning  argument for miners who cited Clinton's comments that she would put
the coal industry out of business. She later apologized.  Republicans say it's
not the government's role to bring back the jobs as companies invest in other
forms of energy. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said recently
that it's "hard to tell" whether the jobs will return because "it's a
private-sector activity."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Mark Makela, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             380 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

New Balance sprints from 'white people' shoes tag;
Pro-Trump comment poses PR dilemma for sneaker company

BYLINE: Mike Snider, @MikeSnider, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 506 words


Athletic shoe company New Balance continues to endure a public relations
backlash after a company executive's perceived pro-Donald Trump comments were
embraced by a white supremacist blogger who deemed their shoes "the official
shoes of white people."

In response, the U.S.-based private company is blanketing social media with
statements that it "does not tolerate bigotry or hate in any form."

The situation highlights the landmines that companies face in a post-election
marketplace with a divided constituency of consumers. With the nation's voting
population split down the center, a company taking a political stand, either
intentionally or inadvertently, risks alienating nearly half of its potential
customer base. And the speed in which kerfuffles spread over social media can
increase the damage caused by a public relations slip-up or misunderstanding.

"How do brands navigate a hyper-polarized political world?" said Matthew Quint,
director of the Columbia Business School's Center on Global Brand Leadership.
"It's going to be a very interesting and tricky thing."

New Balance's situation is reminiscent of Chick-fil-A after its president, Dan
Cathy, in 2012 said the company opposed same-sex marriage. "That stigma has
stuck with Chick-fil-A. You will still get heated responses about that," said
Marlene Morris Towns, a professor of marketing at Georgetown University's
McDonough School of Business.

Complicating the issue is New Balance's mention of Trump by name, Towns said,
which some consumers can take as a sign that "I'm OK with misogyny, sexism and
racism or whatever, because it helps my business."

New Balance found itself in the middle of controversy after Matthew LeBretton,
the company's vice president of public affairs, told The Wall Street Journal the
day after the presidential election that "The Obama administration turned a deaf
ear to us and, frankly, with President-elect Trump, we feel things are going to
move in the right direction."

The Boston-headquartered company says those comments were taken out of context
and were about U.S. trade policy and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade
agreement between the U.S. and 11 other countries in the Asia Pacific and
Americas. New Balance, which The NPD Group estimates owns about 4% of the global
athletic footwear market, long has opposed the TPP, while competitors such as
Nike with significant international production have supported the pact.

LeBretton's comments ignited a wave of online protests from customers who posted
pictures of their New Balance shoes in the trash or being set on fire, along
with pledges to boycott the brand. "Good to know this. #Boycott Any company who
supported Trump!" said one tweet.

The situation percolated to another level after white supremacist website The
Daily Stormer's publisher Andrew Anglin wrote. "We need to support that. I see
New Balances now becoming the official shoes of white people."

New Balance already had posted statements on social media in an attempt to
distance itself from the white supremacist site.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo New Balance

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             381 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Coal's decline may continue under Trump administration;
Cheap shale gas has become major force in energy markets

BYLINE: , ,

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 723 words


During his campaign for the White House, President-elect Donald Trump promised
to eliminate regulations that target coal-fired power plants, one of the primary
causes of carbon emissions responsible for climate change.

For Trump, a climate-change skeptic, getting rid of the Obama administration's
Clean Power Plan, which would curb carbon emissions from power plants by 32% by
2030, would give a boost to the declining U.S. coal industry and its decimated
workforce across Appalachia.

Even if the next president were to succeed, he would probably not reverse a
years-long movement away from coal in the U.S. electric power industry, the
biggest consumer of the black rock, according to the head of one of the nation's
leading electric utilities.

"If he were able to do that, I don't know really how much impact it would have
because we're moving ahead and rebalancing our portfolio," Nick Akins, the
president and CEO of American Electric Power, said recently.

"I think it's going to be very difficult for new coal-fired generation to get
developed," he said.

Obama-era policies requiring reductions in emissions of carbon, mercury and
other pollutants have contributed to coal's loss of market share in the power
sector.

Even more significant has been record U.S. production of cheap shale gas, thanks
to hydraulic fracturing and other technologies, plus the slow but steady
penetration of wind and solar energy into power markets.

"It's a seven-year construction cycle for a coal unit; 15 years for a nuclear
unit," Akins said in a phone call from AEP's Columbus, Ohio, headquarters. "You
can develop a natural gas plant in two to three years, with a lot less risk for
shareholders, and the price of natural gas as a fuel source is still
substantially low.

"And there are areas of the country that benefit from low-cost renewable fuels,
particularly wind, and solar continues to come down as well, particularly
utility-scale solar. Those are areas that will continue to develop."

For AEP, which has 5.4 million customers in 11 states, coal's share of the
company's generating capacity has fallen from 71% in 2005 to about 47% in 2017.
Over that time, gas capacity has risen from 20% to 27%, and renewable energy has
jumped from 3% to 13%.

The switch is happening even faster across the USA, where gas surpasses coal as
a fuel for power plants.

All told, the U.S. Energy Information Administration expects gas to provide an
average of 34% of the electricity generated in the USA in 2016, compared with
30% for coal.

Also figuring heavily in utility investment decisions are changing expectations
among customers, especially demands for "clean energy" among younger customers.

"There's no doubt that there's an element of environmental stewardship that
continues to be part of the fabric of our investment thesis," Akins said.

Trump's bid to reverse Obama environmental policies may provide a reprieve for
some older coal power plants, though gas prices, if they remain low, will
probably cut into those units' operating time, according to the utility chief.

At the same time, Trump's bullish support for gas production and pipeline
construction may exacerbate coal's competitive problems.

"We'll still have the capacity available, but we won't be using the units as
much, and you'll see more utilization of natural gas to back up intermittent
renewable energy," Akins said.

Trump's commitment to promote new infrastructure may benefit companies such as
AEP, whose 40,000-mile electric transmission network is the largest in the USA.

AEP spends more than $3 billion a year on transmission improvements, including
projects designed to bring new renewable and distributed energy to market.

"There's no question that jobs are being created on the infrastructure side of
things," he said.

As for communities where AEP has shuttered coal power plants, the company works
with economic-development officials in states such as Kentucky and West Virginia
to see whether the sites can be marketed for new manufacturing.

"If the Trump administration really wants to focus on that part of the country,
it really ought to think of them like the Go Zones in Louisiana after Hurricane
Katrina," Akins said, referring to a law passed by Congress in 2005 that
provided tax incentives for businesses locating in areas in three states
devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo George Frey, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             382 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump was terrible while campaining, who cares?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 401 words


FACEBOOK

After losing the presidential election, Hillary Clinton received a better
"grade" for how she conducted herself during the campaign than President-elect
Donald Trump, according to a Pew Research Center poll.

Trump lost the popular vote by almost 2 million. He's just another George W.
Bush phony who will never have the respect of the American people. Trump's 46%
approval rating is ridiculous. President Obama and Bill Clinton had more than
60% approval ratings after winning the popular vote -- and Obama still has a 54%
approval rating now.

Michael Alston

Who cares? Just get something done in Washington instead of worrying about whose
feelings get hurt. We have turned into a nation of whimpy idiots who rely on the
authorities to save them.

You gotta break some eggs if you want to make an omelette.

Ric Sheridan

Clinton is the personification of evil and dishonesty. Her total disregard for
the law should scare anyone. Clinton lost because people do not trust her and
rightly so.

Kenneth Lynch

I have to accept Trump's election, because due process took place. But what I
take exception to is his newfound, revisionist attitude and approach.

Trump was just a terrible person throughout his campaign -- and I don't condone
Clinton's rhetoric either. But to say the things that he said during the
campaign and now decide to act "presidential" seems disingenuous at best and
hypocritical at worst.

Michael Anthony Shea

You can not redo Obama's eight years of failures in office or Clinton's years of
failure in Washington. Liberals, deal with the Trump victory and try to figure
out how under Obama, Democrats lost the House and Senate. We lived through eight
crappy years of the far left, now liberals can handle Trump. Grow up.

Doug Steltenpohl

TWITTER

We asked our followers for their recommendations for President-elect Donald
Trump's appointments.

Appoint people who can do the job; do not reward loyalty to anyone. This is a
country, not a boardroom. Trump serves us, not himself.

@305Pirate

Rational people who want to protect our environment, our Social Security, our
civil rights, our diversity.

@Jadzia7667

I would recommend to the president-elect to consider someone other than a white
male septuagenarian.

@Philosophos13

Stay the course and keep bringing people on board who will do the job that needs
to be done, rather than following party orders!

@tab91787

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             383 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

Is it really over? A search for answers;
Clinton lead in popular vote raises electoral questions

BYLINE: Richard Wolf, @richardjwolf, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 675 words


The presidential election is over. Or is it?

Two weeks after Election Day, Donald Trump is assembling his Cabinet while votes
in many states are still being counted. Hillary Clinton's lead in the popular
vote continues to grow. Michigan's 16 electoral votes remain up for grabs.

And so the question: How confident can Americans be in the results announced in
the wee hours of Nov. 9, given the problems that continue to beset our election
system? Here are some answers:

Q: Who won the electoral vote?

A: As of Monday, Trump has 290 votes to Clinton's 232, with Michigan
outstanding. Even if Clinton wins there -- a possibility despite Trump's lead
since election night -- she still would trail, 290-248.

Among other states where the vote was close, only Florida could flip the
election. But Clinton trails there and in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin by too many
votes to trigger an automatic recount.

Q: Who won the popular vote?

A: Clinton's lead of about 1.7million votes continues to increase, largely from
an influx of absentee and provisional ballots being counted in California. She
has about 63.7 million votes to Trump's 62 million; her margin in California is
about 3.5 million.

Q: Where are votes still being counted?

A: Most states have yet to report official results, meaning they are counting
absentee or mail ballots or, more likely, deciding whether to count provisional
ballots. Those often are cast by voters whose names did not appear on
registration lists or who may have voted in the wrong place or lacked proper
identification.

Q: Why does it take so long?

A: Millions of ballots come in at the last second -- or, in states that allow
it, several days after the election with the proper postmarks.

It takes money, manpower and accurate voting machines to get every vote counted
correctly.

"We vastly underfund the way in which we run our elections," says Michael
McDonald, a University of Florida associate professor who maintains a website on
the electoral system. "The bottom line is that you want to get the count right."

Q: How close are the two candidates in key battleground states?

A: Three thousand votes are all that separate Clinton and Trump in New
Hampshire. The margin is about 12,000 in Michigan, 27,000 in Wisconsin, 68,000
in Pennsylvania and 113,000 in Florida -- close, but nothing compared with the
537 votes that separated George W. Bush and Al Gore in Florida 16 years ago.

Q: Can the votes be recounted?

A: Several states, including Pennsylvania and Florida, require the vote
difference between the two candidates to be less than one-half of 1 percentage
point. In Michigan, a recount is triggered automatically if the margin is less
than 2,000 votes. None of those states is close enough at the moment.

Q: Is it possible that provisional and absentee voting results vary
significantly from Election Day?

A: Yes, but it's unlikely. Despite changes in voting laws in some states that
civil rights groups claim unfairly restrict minorities, the poor and elderly,
provisional votes that are accepted usually don't alter the results.

"The chances of changing tens of thousands of votes? That's just not going to
happen," says Hans von Spakovsky, a former Federal Election Commission member at
the conservative Heritage Foundation.

Q: What's the deal in California?

A: It's the largest state, and it has some of the most permissive voting
procedures.

More than half the state's votes are cast by absentee ballot, since no excuses
are necessary to avoid going to a polling place on Election Day. Provisional
ballots are treated more leniently than in many other states, requiring time to
correct mistakes that otherwise would cause votes to be rejected.

Q: When will the results be official?

A: Eight states have certified their results; an additional four are due to do
so Tuesday. Nearly all will complete their counts by Dec. 13, in time for the
meeting Dec. 19 of the Electoral College -- the 538 individuals who, usually
without exception, vote according to the results in each state. In some states,
the final count may come even later.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo BRYAN R. SMITH, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             384 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

What to watch;
Dow readies assault on 19,000 milestone

BYLINE: Adam Shell, @adamshell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 233 words


Dow 19,000 has a nice ring to it. And the iconic blue chip gauge is edging ever
closer to that milestone.

After Monday's record-breaking day, when the Dow Jones industrial average,
large-company Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, tech-dominated Nasdaq composite
and the small-cap Russell 2000 all closed at record levels at the same time for
the first time since Dec. 31, 1999, the Dow is on the verge of making more
headlines and getting a mention on the evening news.

The Dow kicks off Tuesday's trading session less than 45 points, or 0.2%, away
from cracking the 19,000 barrier.

The assault on Dow 19,000 has taken nearly two years, or almost 700 days, since
it took out the 18,000 barrier on Dec. 23, 2014. It is on track for its slowest
climb from one 1,000-point level to the next since the nearly six years it took
the Dow to climb from 14,000 in July 2007 to 15,000 in May 2013. (That long
drought, of course, coincided with the Great Recession and the worst stock
market decline since the Great Depression.)

Dow 19,000 is the latest signal the rally sparked by Donald Trump's surprise
presidential election win is broadening as investors continue to bet on the
prospects for a more business-friendly administration.

Whether the bullish hype turns out to be the right trade remains to be seen, as
Trump has yet to get the keys to the White House or make one of his campaign
promises come true.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             385 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Book Buzz;
NEW ON THE LIST AND IN PUBLISHING

BYLINE: Jocelyn McClurg

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 229 words


Rowling rollin': J.K. Rowling's magic touch has come up a tad short on USA
TODAY's Best-Selling Books list. The author's  Fantastic Beasts and Where to
Find Them: The Original Screenplay lands at No. 3. The Fantastic Beasts movie, a
Harry Potter spinoff, raked in $75 million its opening weekend. Rowling's
screenplay about magizoologist Newt Scamander, her first, went on sale  Nov. 18,
the same day the movie was released, so USA TODAY's list tracks three days of
sales (Friday-Sunday). Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, the play script,
landed at No. 1  on Aug. 4 and spent six straight weeks in the top spot. It hit
No. 1 with just one day's worth of sales tabulated.

On the trail: In the wake of the presidential election, two new politically
themed books have emerged as winners. Readers cast their votes for Settle for
More by Megyn Kelly of Fox News and Our Revolution by Vermont Sen. Bernie
Sanders. Kelly's memoir lands at No. 5, while Sanders comes in at No. 12. Both
authors have made major media and bookstore appearances. Kelly became part of
the news cycle during what she calls her "Year of Trump." Sanders, who lost the
Democratic presidential nomination to Hillary Clinton, obviously still has lots
of fans who are feeling the Bern and buying his book, in which he recounts his
months on the campaign trail and lays out his vision for a "political
revolution."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo FilmMagic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             386 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Electors resist pressure to defect;
Republicans bombarded by thousands of pleas to switch their vote to Clinton

BYLINE: Joseph Gerth, Yvonne Wingett Sanchez and Joseph Baucum, USA TODAY
Network

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 741 words


To supporters of Hillary Clinton, the number looks intoxicating: 155 electors in
states where the popular vote went for Donald Trump -- some by slim margins --
who apparently aren't legally bound to vote for the GOP presidential nominee
when the Electoral College meets Dec. 19.

Solicit them like lobbyists schmooze members of Congress, right? Persuade just a
portion, and you've got the first woman president, winner of the popular vote,
certified by a constitutional authority. She's got 232 in the bag. She would
need 38 "faithless electors" to win this game.

That's the problem with this particular political fantasy. Though electors in
several states report that they're getting thousands of emails, letters and even
telephone calls to ask them to switch their votes, they're among the Republican
Party's most loyal members.

"I fully intend to vote for Donald Trump," said Jim Skaggs of Bowling Green,
Ky., one of that state's eight electors, who added that he really doesn't like
Trump. "It's not a law, I don't think. ... But I think it's a duty."

He's right. Kentucky is one of 28 states, according to the Congressional
Research Service and additional USA TODAY research, that don't mandate their
electors to vote for the winner of their state's popular vote. The Constitution
and federal law are silent on the matter.

More than 4.5 million supporters have signed a Change.org petition advocating
electors' change of heart, but the desire is little more than a pipe dream,
election experts said. Two Democratic electors in Colorado and Washington state,
where Clinton won the electoral votes and electors are obligated under state law
to vote for her, have launched their own movement that they've dubbed "Moral
Electors" to achieve the same result -- or more likely throw the decision to the
House of Representatives as happened in 1824.

"This is a long shot. It's a Hail Mary," P. Bret Chiafalo of Everett, Wash.,
told Politico. "However, I do see situations where -- when we've already had two
or three (Republican) electors state publicly they didn't want to vote for
Trump. How many of them have real issues with Donald Trump in private?"

Where Chiafalo sees a Hail Mary play, some Trump electors consider the drama
more as harassment.

"Hillary's got a great campaign going," said Sharon Geise, an elector from Mesa,
Ariz., who estimates 8,000 emails have flooded her inbox. "It's the same thing,
pretty much. Basically: Vote for Hillary Clinton. It's bizarre. I don't dare
answer my phone."

A dozen letters urging her to back anybody but Trump arrived at her home
Thursday. "She has to stop all of this," Geise said of Clinton. "This is
ridiculous."

It's not clear whether Clinton supports this movement. She conceded to Trump on
the day after the election, and President Obama, who endorsed his former
secretary of State, committed to a smooth transition of power.

Even delegations from states such as Florida that can inflict penalties for
voting by conscience instead of popular vote haven't escaped activists' barrage.

In Florida, a faithless elector would be charged with a misdemeanor, prohibited
from casting an Electoral College vote and replaced, presumably with an
alternate more faithful to the popular-vote results in the state, said Franita
Tolson, a voting rights law professor at Florida State University. That
elector's political future within the GOP would be toast.

Historically, fewer than two electors per presidential election have changed
their votes because they didn't want the candidate on whose slate they ran,
according to FairVote.org, a District of Columbia-based non-partisan, non-profit
group. The most recent was in 2004 and might have been a mistake.

"It sounds like sour grapes to me," the incoming president of Florida's Senate
and an elector, Joe Negron of Stuart, said about the movement to change
electors' stripes.

Elector Susan Moore of Pensacola, Fla., has been a Republican Party loyalist
since she started volunteering in Tennessee when she was 12. She has more than
800 emails, many of them part of the same form letter, in her inbox.

"I think these people mean well," she said. "But they're asking us to do
something that's really not going to work out the way they want."

Joseph Gerth reports for The (Louisville) Courier-Journal, Yvonne Wingett
Sanchez reports for The Arizona Republic and Joseph Baucum reports for the
Pensacola (Fla.) News Journal

Contributing: Isadora Rangel, The (Stuart, Fla.) News

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             387 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump: Let Clinton email issue go;
President-elect shifts from lock her up to leave her alone

BYLINE: Heidi M. Przybyla, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 797 words


During Donald Trump's successful White House campaign, his massive crowds
chanted, "Lock her up. Lock her up."

What he didn't say was that, as president, he would not have the authority to
appoint a special prosecutor to investigate Hillary Clinton, much less jail her,
as Trump threatened during a debate. That's the jurisdiction of the U.S. Justice
Department, which is supposed to work outside the influence of politics.

Now that he's won the election, the president-elect appears to be sending a
signal to Congress and perhaps even his incoming attorney general that it's no
longer politically beneficial to try to prosecute the former Democratic
presidential nominee.

Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway told MSNBC that the president-elect hopes
Congress will forgo further investigations of Clinton. "I think when the
president-elect, who's also the head of your party, tells you before he's even
inaugurated that he doesn't wish to pursue these charges, it sends a very strong
message, tone and content to the members" of Congress, Conway told MSNBC's
Morning Joe.

"He was brilliant in neutralizing the harsh negative attitudes towards himself
by making Hillary Clinton equally distasteful," said Larry Jacobs, a
presidential historian at the University of Minnesota. "Now he's shedding it
once in office because it would hurt him."

The belief among Trump's supporters that Clinton was a criminal who would end up
in jail was a powerful message in a campaign defined by harsh personal attacks
more than policy differences. Republican strategists said Trump was never
serious about putting his political opponent behind bars. "To Donald Trump, it
was more a chant to get her out of government," said Brad Blakeman, a former
senior staff member to President George W. Bush. Indeed, legal experts had
warned that, only under authoritarian regimes, can leaders unilaterally jail
political dissidents and opponents, and especially not under the United States'
carefully constructed democratic system of checks and balances and separation of
powers.

Trump may risk angering some of his most enthusiastic backers, many of whom
angrily taunted Clinton's motorcade with signs reading "Lock her up" in campaign
stops across the country. Judicial Watch, a group that's pursued many
investigations and lawsuits against the Clintons, responded with dismay to the
news. "If Mr. Trump's appointees continue the Obama administration's politicized
spiking of a criminal investigation of Hillary Clinton, it would be a betrayal
of his promise to the American people to 'drain the swamp' of out-of-control
corruption in Washington," Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton said in a
statement.

The investigation of Clinton's private email server was an outgrowth of a
special House committee to investigate the terror attacks in 2012 in Benghazi,
Libya. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy credited the inquiry with driving
down Clinton's poll ratings. The strategy became increasingly effective as
Republicans built up expectations that Clinton would be indicted by the FBI.
Director James Comey, a Republican, determined that "no reasonable prosecutor"
would press criminal charges based on the evidence. While Clinton enjoyed a
sizable lead in head-to-head polls, Republicans cried foul, and Trump ramped up
his complaints of a "rigged system."

"The investigation itself came out of a political atmosphere," said Julian
Zelizer, a presidential expert at Princeton University. "It was just trumped up
during the campaign itself. Obviously, some of his supporters might be angry
because they believed that chant. If he moves on to other issues, they will as
well."

During the campaign, Trump threatened Clinton repeatedly with further
investigation of her use of a private e-mail server as well as the fundraising
practices of the Clinton Foundation. During one of their debates, Trump told
her, "If I win, I am going to instruct my attorney general to get a special
prosecutor to look into your situation further."

After the election, Trump signaled he would not pursue  Clinton or her husband,
former president Bill Clinton.

"I don't want to hurt them," Trump said this month on CBS' 60 Minutes. "They're
good people. I don't want to hurt them."

Conway told MSNBC that  Clinton "still has to face the fact that a majority of
Americans don't find her to be honest or trustworthy," and "if Donald Trump can
help her heal, then perhaps that's a good thing to do."

Jacobs said calling off congressional investigators is "the right thing to do"
for Trump. "Donald Trump doesn't want to enter office with the lowest approval
rating of any president in history, and he's got to find a way to get out from
underneath the acrimony of the campaign and at least get a little honeymoon," he
said.

Contributing: David Jackson

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Chip Somodevilla, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             388 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Stock market yo-yo's toward Dow 20,000;
After soaring past 19,000, moonshot milestone may arrive sooner than forecast

BYLINE: Adam Shell, @adamshell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 762 words


Dow 19,000. Going once, going twice, gone! Do I hear Dow 20,000?

Seth Masters, chief investment officer at Bernstein Private Wealth Management
who boldly predicted Dow 20,000 by 2022  in 2012 when the Dow Jones industrial
average traded around 13,000 in early June, says the Dow can eclipse 20,000
earlier than he originally predicted.

"I don't know the precise date, but we will be ahead of schedule," Masters told
USA TODAY in an interview Monday, adding the iconic blue chip stock gauge could
hurdle the 20,000 milestone as early as next year. "2017? Of course it could
happen in 2017."

The Dow traded above 19,000 for the first time Tuesday and closed up 67 points
to close at a record of 19,023.87.

Traveling from Dow 19,000 to Dow 20,000 is not that long of a journey, if
measured in stock market miles, as each additional 1,000-point increment equates
to an increasingly smaller percentage change. A 1,000-point move to 20,000, for
example, equates to a gain of just 5.3%. In contrast, the Dow had to double in
value from its first close above 1,000 in November 1972 to its maiden voyage
above 2,000 in January 1987, according to data compiled by S&P Dow Jones
Indices. Similarly, the Dow's jump from 10,000 to 11,000 in spring 1999 marked a
more sizable 10% gain.

The latest Dow breakout has been dubbed the "Trump Rally." After Donald Trump's
surprise win in the Nov. 8 presidential election, Wall Street has been pricing
in stronger economic growth and higher corporate profits in the future, due in
large part to Trump's more business-friendly and "America First" economic
policies.

Investors are betting if the Trump administration, with the help of a
Republican-controlled Congress, follows through on its promises of lower taxes,
fewer regulations on businesses, negotiating better trade deals and spending
hundreds of billions of dollars to fix the nation's aging infrastructure, it
will jump-start growth -- and provide fresh life for the  bull market, which is
coming up on its eighth birthday in March.

"Trump's election has unleashed 'animal spirits' that (British economist) John
Maynard Keynes talked about," says Nick Sargen, senior investment strategist at
Fort Washington Investment Advisors.

"Investors are hoping his policies ... will boost growth and corporate profits."

That big, bullish bet has sparked a rush of investment dollars back into the
U.S.  market. The new case for stocks has powered the Dow to a 3.4% gain since
Election Day and enabled it to take out the 19,000 milestone, nearly two years
after it  crossed the 18,000 threshold Dec. 23, 2014.

Still, Sargen counters there are headwinds on the horizon.

"For the time being, investors are ignoring the spikes in bond yields (the
10-year Treasury note is above 2.3% for the first time in a year) and the dollar
(up 10 of the past 11 sessions), which should have a dampening effect on the
rally at some point," says Sargen, adding a market scare related to
Trump-inspired protectionism could also hurt the bullish vibe.

In 2012, when  Masters shocked the world with his provocative Dow 20,000 call,
investors -- still spooked by the financial devastation of the Great Recession
and worst stock market decline since the Great Depression -- were in a defensive
shell. They were shifting their money out of stocks into safer investments such
as cash and bonds. In contrast, Masters at the time was bullish on stocks due to
the bearish investor sentiment and his view that earnings and the economy would
grow at a decent clip. He also argued that stocks weren't expensive when record
low bond yields were taken into account.

"Investors were very, very pessimistic  then," Masters recalls. "The idea that
the Dow could get to 20,000 seemed far-fetched."

Today, investor sentiment has brightened. And with Corporate America continuing
to buy back large helpings of its own stock, Masters sees corporate earnings
growth coming in at a pace of 4.5% to 5%. "In that kind of environment, in the
next few years you will see mid- to single-digit returns for stocks, so within a
few years you get to Dow 20,000."

So if the Dow hits 20,000 soon,  before Masters' 2022 prediction, will the Dow
be a buy or a sell? It depends on the reason the Dow is breaking out, Masters
argues.

"If we get to Dow 20,000 because sentiment gets hugely optimistic and
price-to-earnings ratios (or the market's valuation level) rise a lot, I would
be worried," Masters says. "If we get there because corporate earnings are
grinding higher I would be happy and would be telling people to stay the course
and remain invested in the Dow."

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Getty Images/ iStockphoto iStockphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             389 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                CA CHASE EDITION

Trump's Mr. Popular in Russia;
Some feel he will be one of America's best presidents

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard, @khjelmgaard, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 562 words


Donald Trump's election has sparked shock, revulsion and protests around much of
the world. But in Russia, the president-elect is being embraced with widespread
approval.

In fact, many here think he'll be one of the best American presidents ever.

Just less than half of those surveyed after the U.S. election by VTSIOM, a
state-run research center, said that if given the opportunity, they would have
voted for the billionaire New York businessman.

Only 4% said they would have backed Democrat Hillary Clinton, who took a hard
line against Russia during her tenure as secretary of State.

The survey found that about a third of Russians think Trump will likely go on to
become one of the best presidents in U.S. history.

"Trump is a huge advantage for Russia," said Muscovite Gleb Samorukov. "It's
clear Trump's willing to figure out some of the problems we have between our two
countries."

Samorukov said he believes Russia is doing its best to resolve differences with
the U.S. over Russia's annexation of Crimea and its backing of separatists in
eastern Ukraine, as well as disagreements about how to deal with the civil war
in Syria and President Bashar Assad.

President Obama has had tense relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin
since Russia's intervention in neighboring Ukraine in 2014, a move that prompted
Western sanctions against Russia.

The two men also have clashed over Syria's war: Russia's military is supporting
Assad against rebel groups, while Obama is supporting some of those rebels and
wants the Syrian leader to step down because of brutal attacks on civilians.

In another flash point, U.S. intelligence agencies allege that the Russian
government tried to interfere in the U.S. election by hacking into the email
accounts of the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee, a charge
Putin denies.

By contrast, candidate Trump praised Putin's strong leadership style and
promised after his election to improve relations with a country that had been
the United State's longtime Cold War rival.

"It's definitely changed the atmosphere for the good," said Ian Artemey, an
economics student from St. Petersburg. "I like him."

Russians also like Putin -- a lot, if state-run media and polls can be believed.

His approval ratings have soared amid the increase in tensions with the United
States, reaching an all-time high of nearly 90% in October, VTSIOM found.

Mark Galeotti, an expert on Russia at the Institute of International Relations
in Prague, said Putin appears more comfortable with a Trump presidency, at least
for now.

"There is inevitably a degree of delight at seeing the obvious dismay (about
Trump's election) among U.S. allies, especially in Europe," Galeotti said.

"There are some prospects economic sanctions might be lifted or moderated, and
on this issue, where Washington leads, the Europeans will certainly follow."

Long term, though, Trump is not necessarily what Russia's government would have
wanted and could worry the Kremlin, Galeotti said.

"Putin has capitalized on his ability to break the rules and get in the West's
face, relying on our willingness to broker compromise. With Trump, there is much
less certainty this will be the case," he said.

Trump's "evident dislike of entangling alliances, his half-heartedness toward
NATO, may well worry Europe enough that it takes its security much more
seriously," Galeotti added.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Drew Angerer, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             390 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump's biz success is appealing;
Wealthy town of ex-CEOs believes it has found an ally in the new president

BYLINE: Joseph Cranney, Naples (Fla.) Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 940 words


In the state everyone said Donald Trump needed to win, this ultra-wealthy
coastal hideaway for some of the nation's business leaders came out strong for
the Republican candidate, producing Florida's highest county voter turnout with
the help of many of the GOP's most traditional and faithful members.

Trump's victory wasn't just about gaining the underemployed, angry, rural white
vote. In Naples, one of the wealthiest communities in the country with a median
household income of roughly $80,500, former corporate executives overwhelmingly
supported Trump and his calls for cutting government regulations and rebuilding
the country's infrastructure.

Francis Rooney, the Naples multimillionaire CEO of Manhattan Construction and
prolific GOP donor who was just elected to Congress, said he voted for Trump and
supported his calls to get rid of the Dodd-Frank act, which went into law after
the Great Recession. The law has been criticized for the regulatory burden it
has put on banks and other business.

John Sorey, the ex-CEO of the Spectrum Corp. in Tennessee, said he voted for
Trump in the hope that investments in the country's infrastructure will have a
"multiple effect" on job creation.

Phyllis "Flip" West, a Naples retiree whose family owned a West Virginia welding
company, said she voted for Trump because the country "needs to be run as a
business."

"The whole big thing is the economy," West, 78, said. "We need to bring it
back."

West is one of an outsized population of ex-CEOs and business supervisors in
Naples, a retirement town with a population of roughly 20,000 that prides itself
on its annual multimillion dollar wine festival fundraisers and high-end sports
car shows.

The area's rich donors and corporate executives, many of whom keep their private
jets at the city's municipal airport, turned out largely for former CEO Mitt
Romney in the 2012 election.

But setting aside concerns that traditionally conservative areas might abandon
this year's GOP nominee, Trump's background as a real estate developer and
company owner helped convince Naples business leaders that he can grow the
economy.

"He gets things done," said Sorey, 73, who is also the former mayor of Naples.
"The most similarity among Naples voters is the fact that they like success and
see success as a positive attribute."

Trump is also proposing a major tax cut for wealthy residents like the ones in
Naples, including a cut of 6.5% to the country's top 1% of earners, according to
an analysis by the Tax Policy Center.

Naples business leaders, including some who have donated millions to Republican
presidential candidates in the past, were split during the GOP Florida primary,
with some leaders supporting former Florida  governor Jeb Bush or Florida Sen.
Marco Rubio.

Rooney, who relocated his Oklahoma company's headquarters to Naples in 2002, has
close ties to the Bush family. His company built the Texas Rangers baseball
stadium in Arlington when George W. Bush was part owner of the team. Rooney was
a top fundraiser for Bush and later served as his ambassador to the Vatican.

Rooney said he voted for Jeb Bush in the primary. But once the Republican Party
chose Trump as its nominee, Rooney said, he was "all in." He said he supports
Trump's call to repeal or modify the Affordable Care Act, also known as
Obamacare.

John Allen, a real estate executive and major Naples donor whose waterfront home
is valued at more than $12million, said he voted for Rubio in the primary but
ultimately supported Trump because of his business experience.

"On the heels of a president that was totally unqualified to be president -- who
never built a job or ran a company, had a payroll or created benefits -- did I
like the fact that Trump had tremendous success, that he has a background and
did it in New York City and other difficult environments? Yes, I found that
attractive," Allen, 62, said.

"He understands investment and return and is willing to take risks," Allen said.
"He's an outspoken advocate of the free enterprise system."

The area's less enthusiastic Trump supporters ultimately voted for him largely
because of the flaws of Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, said Kathleen
Passidomo, a Naples lawyer and newly elected state senator.

"So many people I talked to -- not just Republicans, but Democrats and
independents -- were really distressed about Hillary Clinton," said Passidomo,
who voiced concerns about Trump after a video surfaced of him talking
disparagingly about women. "It wasn't just the emails. It was the elitism of the
Clinton dynasty and her expectation that she deserved the presidency because she
was a Clinton."

West, whose family owned a welding company, is a registered Republican, but said
she flipped parties in West Virginia to vote for a Democratic governor who
supported the steel and coal industry that bought supplies from welders.

She said she supported Trump since the beginning of the GOP primary because she
believes he can "bring trade back to our country." She calls trade the "tailcoat
of the economy."

Supporters see the possibility of Trump achieving on the national level the same
kind of progress Floridians view from Republican Gov. Rick Scott, said Mike
Lyster, chairman of the Collier County Republican Executive Committee. Scott's
2010 gubernatorial campaign, similar to Trump's presidential run, promoted Scott
as a businessman who had never held elected office.

Trump has said he's not beholden to his campaign donors, which could give him
the "best chance of any of the elected officials in Washington to make good on
his promises" to improve the economy, Passidomo said.

"That's pretty amazing," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Corey Perrine, Naples Daily News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             391 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Who left us vulnerable to fake news?;
Real journalists who lost the trust of conservatives and liberals alike

BYLINE: Steve Deace

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 720 words


Each January, tens of thousands of pro-lifers descend upon our nation's capital
to mark  the Roe v. Wade anniversary. That's the month in 1973 the Supreme Court
used a fake law to create a fake right to kill our own offspring, and a body
count that has now reached well over 50 million began.

Each January, this mass demonstration rarely gets more than perfunctory coverage
by major U.S. newspapers, cable news networks and broadcast news. However, last
weekend a few blocks away from the site of the march, the meeting of a couple
hundred racists trying to rebrand themselves as the "alt-right" received days of
coverage.

Type "March for Life" into Google News and 4.6 million results come up. That's a
pretty hefty number until you type in "alt right" and see it returns more than 6
million. How come a term most of us hadn't heard of, until the just-concluded
2016 presidential election, gets more attention than a national protest that is
older than Google itself?

Talk about your fake news.

But a different kind of fake news spread on social media is what a growing
chorus of journalists, liberals and tech leaders at least partially blame for
Donald Trump's election victory.

Satire partisanship

For most Americans, it's hardly a new phenomenon. It has been going on for quite
some time, actually: Dan Rather's fake gotcha story on George W. Bush during the
2004 election. ABC News' failure to disclose ties between George Stephanopoulos
and Hillary Clinton before his fake interview about the Clinton Foundation. The
more than 24 "journalists" who took their fake objectivity with them to work in
the Obama administration. When CNN, PBS NewsHour,  The Washington Post, Slate
and many others thought fake news was kinda cool because the fake news was
written by liberal comedians for cable satire shows.

There's a difference between the deliberate fakery that fueled Trump and
journalistic failures, but it hard for the public to distinguish when so much
hackery and partisanship slips through. And it is not just Trump backers who are
disillusioned. According to Gallup, since 1997 trust in the news media among
independents has fallen from 53% to 30%. Among Democrats, it has fallen from 64%
to 51%.

As a result, we've gone from adults telling their kids, "Don't trust what you
read on the Internet," to "Did you hear Ted Cruz's dad killed Kennedy?
@TrumpJesus posted it on Twitter."

I know firsthand

Yes, the Trump campaign shamelessly rode a wave of fake news sites to help it
corral a gullible public. I know firsthand because I spent much of the
Republican primary combating this plague as a nationally syndicated conservative
talk show host. It got so bad that for months, we chose to take listener phone
calls only sparingly because we'd spend more time talking about things that
didn't happen than things that did.

For example, former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski once shared a fake
story about folks being paid to protest Trump. Trump himself wondered aloud why
notorious tabloid the National Enquirer hasn't won a Pulitzer. One of its latest
headlines is "Cher's shoe obsession: the ugly early years."

But a gullible populace doesn't appear overnight. It has to be cultivated and
cultured by years of journalistic malpractice and malfeasance. There have to be
years of mystifying decisions such as the ones to treat a few hundred racists as
blockbuster news while relegating tens of thousands of pro-life protesters to
the briefs column. At that point, very few trust the reporting of objective
facts if they're reported by a source that has proved itself to be anything but
objective.

Not to mention that our friends on the left, who are most of the people working
in the mainstream news media, can't have it both ways. When you advocate
allowing people to redefine reality to the point that it is controversial and
"hateful" to expect people to use the proper bathroom, don't be surprised if
people want to decide for themselves which "news" is actually real, too. If I
can claim my own gender and my own pronouns, why can't I claim my own facts?

Don't be surprised when folks can't tell the difference between real and fake
news when too many of the people working in our newsrooms can't, either.

Steve Deace, who supported Ted Cruz for president, is a nationally syndicated
host on Salem Radio Network.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Zach Gibson, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             392 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Calls for a vote recount are just plain desperate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 440 words


LETTERS

It's bad enough that Hillary Clinton seems to have sent her supporters on a
mission to intimidate President-elect Donald Trump electors into changing their
votes for her, now Jill Stein (the Green Party's presidential candidate) has
launched a vote recount campaign in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania. This
was probably a direction from Clinton to topple Trump's election, which will
surely be supported by her followers.

It looks like Clinton refuses to accept the decision of Trump's electors and
voters, since it's reported she conceded the election only after receiving a
call from President Obama urging her to do so.

This is all the more evidence that President-elect Trump is saving America from
Obama's ruinous record and an ultra-dangerous election of Clinton.

Indeed, Jan. 20, 2017, can't come soon enough for America to reform, recover and
prosper.

Daniel Jeffs

Apple Valley, Calif.

FACEBOOK

Did Hillary Clinton forget she already conceded? Will she give a second
concession speech? Or will she not accept the results of a recount either?

Don Scotter

A change of one or two states, coupled with potentially "faithless" electors,
could make this very interesting. A 290 electoral vote count is no landslide.
I'm  just saying that nothing is officially over until Jan. 20. Does anyone else
feel like we are watching a scripted drama?

John Imhof

The purpose of the Wisconsin recount in particular is to verify the results in
all counties, not just the randomly selected 100 wards.

What does Donald Trump have to lose? Probably nothing. What does Wisconsin have
to gain if the recount flushes something out? An understanding of what we need
to do in future elections there.

Dave Yost

Had Trump not picked up the Electoral College as he did, he would have been the
first to challenge the vote count. If Trump doesn't get his way, he stomps and
cries "unfair"!

Rebecca Hargens

TWITTER

We asked our followers their thoughts on the petitions to recount presidential
votes.

Donald Trump warned us the election could be rigged so recounts are a
responsible response, not an attempt to change. Results are facts.

@Suprmanj

I don't think much of it. Trump won the Electoral College. He's going to be our
new president, people need to accept that.

@catloverplayer

Even if there's no fraud, let's show ourselves and the world we double-check for
accuracy. No harm in that.

@Blue6678

Ridiculous. Have some class, Hillary Clinton, and accept that you were beaten!

@48Bev

Without evidence of fraud or tampering, a recount is very dangerous to our
republic and sets a scary precedent for future elections.

@LWHaynes

For more, follow @USATOpinion or #tellusatoday.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             393 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump blasts Clinton over recount bid;
Voter concerns about Russian hacking in Wisconsin cited

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 582 words


Coming off a holiday weekend in South Florida, Donald Trump unleashed a Sunday
morning tweet storm on Hillary Clinton over her campaign's decision to join a
recount process on voting results in Wisconsin and perhaps other states.

"So much time and money will be spent -- same result! Sad" Trump said in one
Twitter post.

Trump, who spent Thanksgiving weekend at his Mar-A-Lago estate in Palm Beach,
Fla., expressed his recount displeasure before his planned return to New York
City early Sunday evening.

More interviews for jobs in the Trump administration are planned for the coming
week. Among the slots Trump is looking to fill: secretaries of State, Treasury,
and Defense.

The president-elect's comments about the recount capped a series of tweets in
which he quoted Clinton's criticism of a Trump debate comment that he might not
recognize the results on the election should he lose.

At one point, Trump noted, Clinton described refusal to accept the results of an
election as "a direct threat to our democracy."

The Clinton campaign announced Saturday it would participate in a Wisconsin
recount sought by Green Party candidate Jill Stein, and may join Stein-backed
efforts in Michigan and Pennsylvania. Officials cited voter concerns about
Russian hacking and other forms of alleged voting problems.

While Clinton officials said they have seen no evidence of vote tampering, and
do not expect the results in any state to change, they believe their campaign
needs to be represented during any recount process.

In a post on Medium, Clinton general counsel Marc Erik Elias wrote: "Because we
had not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or outside attempts to
alter the voting technology, we had not planned to exercise this option
ourselves, but now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to
participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to
all sides."

While Trump carried the states of Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin by a
total of only around 107,000 votes, Elias noted that "the number of votes
separating Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in the closest of these states --
Michigan -- well exceeds the largest margin ever overcome in a recount."

Clinton supporters raised concerns about possible Russian hacking of the
election, though the Democratic team and the Obama administration have said
there is no evidence of it.

Trump, meanwhile, charged the Clinton campaign with hypocrisy.

"Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the
victory speech and after the results were in," Trump said in one post. "Nothing
will change."

Trump made some appointments and worked on other transition issues during his
time at Mar-A-Lago, including what aides described as a 45 minute phone
conversation Saturday with President Obama.

"They've been talking regularly on any number of issues," Trump adviser
Kellyanne Conway said on NBC's Meet The Press.

While Trump enjoys his conversations with Obama and "they get along nicely,"
Conway also told NBC that "they disagree on many things. That's not going to
change."

During a series of Sunday show interviews, Conway said Trump is also working
with aides on how to avoid potential conflicts of interests between his actions
as president and the many business interests he and his family have across the
world.

"He has been talking to his lawyers, he's been talking to ethics compliance
folks," Conway told Meet The Press. "Everything will be done the way it needs to
be done."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             394 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            November 28, 2016 Monday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Media companies to lobby Trump;
Station owners seek loosening of rules for cross-ownership

BYLINE: Roger Yu, @ByRogerYu, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 470 words


Count local TV station owners among the industries emboldened by Donald Trump.

In changing of the guards at the White House, the local TV industry sees a ripe
opportunity in their ongoing quest to toss out the Federal Communication
Commission's rules on media cross-ownership that bar media companies from owning
newspapers and TV stations in the same market.

The National Association of Broadcasters, a trade group for TV station owners,
"is cautiously optimistic a Trump FCC will take a fresh look at reforming
outdated local broadcast ownership rules," said Dennis Wharton, NAB's executive
vice president of media relations. "These are I Love Lucy  era rules in a Modern
Family  world."

The rules, devised in the 1975, specifically prohibit media companies to own a
newspaper and a TV station in the same local market. Companies are also barred
from owning more than one top-4-in-ratings TV station in any market.

The FCC drafted the rules to prevent heavy concentration of local media market
shares held by one company, asserting that such dominant ownership can inhibit
diversity of opinions and raise prices for advertisers. Media companies have
fought for years to loosen or eliminate the rules, arguing that they're outdated
in the digital era and limit business diversification needed to enrich their
revenues.

The FCC, which is directed by five commissioners appointed by the U.S.
president, reviews the rules every four years to ensure they're still relevant.
After completing the review in August, the agency, in a partisan 3-2 vote, chose
to retain the rules for the next four years, but provided an exception for
"failed or failing newspapers" to receive investment from a TV business in their
market.

The prevailing assumption on K Street is that President-elect Donald Trump --
even though he has publicly stated his opposition to AT&T's proposed
$85.4billion acquisition of Time Warner -- will look to loosen industry
regulations.

With Republicans expected to take over the FCC's five-member panel, the NAB
plans to ask the agency to reconsider its latest quadrennial decision. Less than
a week after the presidential election, the News Media Alliance, which
represents print publishers, also filed an appeal of the FCC's decision.

In seeking to revisit the rules, media companies will argue that digital
technology, in particular, has completely remade industry dynamics. And relaxing
ownership restrictions could spark more acquisitions and other investment deals.

Ajit Pai, one of the FCC's current commissioners and a Republican who's
mentioned as a possible candidate to replace the outgoing FCC chairman Tom
Wheeler, told a gathering of local TV executives in a conference in Wichita last
month that "the FCC missed a golden opportunity to update our ownership rules to
reflect the modern media marketplace."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dustin Michelson, Emporia Gazette, via AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             395 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump threatens to scuttle Cuba diplomacy;
Petraeus interviewed as search continues to fill Cabinet posts

BYLINE: David Jackson, @djusatoday, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 562 words


While conducting an unusually public search for secretary of State,
President-elect Donald Trump again threatened Monday to terminate emerging
diplomatic relations with Cuba if it does not somehow reform.

"If Cuba is unwilling to make a better deal for the Cuban people, the
Cuban/American people and the U.S. as a whole, I will terminate deal," Trump
tweeted two days after the death of former Cuba leader Fidel Castro.

Interviews at Trump Tower on Monday included one with retired general and ex-CIA
director David Petraeus, a potential pick in the  battle for secretary of State.

On Tuesday, Trump is scheduled to meet with another State Department
possibility, Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. The president-elect also has a second interview lined up
for 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, whose possible appointment
as secretary of State has drawn criticism from Trump backers.

"It's going to be a busy week," Vice President-elect and transition chairman
Mike Pence told reporters in the lobby of Trump Tower en route to meetings. "Get
ready. Buckle up."

Petraeus told reporters that he and Trump spoke for about an hour, and the
president-elect "showed a great grasp of a variety of the challenges that are
out there, and some of the opportunities as well."

Calling it a "very good conversation," Petraeus said that "we'll see where it
goes from here."

One challenge is Cuba.

The Obama administration has engaged in a series of diplomatic moves with the
Cuban regime, from agreeing to commercial flights to the opening of embassy
offices in each nation's capital.

Trump, who made a similar claim regarding Cuba during the presidential campaign,
has not specified how he might roll back these initiatives.

The president-elect's latest moves came a day after he used Twitter to expound
conspiracy theories about alleged voter fraud, suggesting that is the reason he
lost to Democrat Hillary Clinton by more than 2 million votes in the latest
tallies.

After a series of tweets criticizing Clinton and aides for participating in a
vote recount in Wisconsin, Trump said in another post: "In addition to winning
the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the
millions of people who voted illegally."

He provided no evidence for that assertion, popular among conspiracy theorists.

Trump also claimed voter fraud in the states of Virginia, New Hampshire, and
California, again without evidence.

Tom Rath, a veteran Republican from New Hampshire (and a supporter of Ohio Gov.
John Kasich during the Republican primaries) responded to Trump on Twitter:
"This will probably cost me my spot in the Cabinet but there was no fraud,
serious or other, in this election in NH. There just wasn't."

And a researcher who said the Trump campaign is citing one of his reports said
it included nothing about voter fraud.

"We found millions of out-of-date registration records due to people moving or
dying, but found no evidence that voter fraud resulted," tweeted David Becker,
executive director of The Center for Election Innovation & Research.

Clinton officials and Democrats mocked Trump's complaints.

"We are getting attacked for participating in a recount that we didn't ask for
by the man who won election but thinks there was massive fraud," said a tweet
from Clinton campaign general counsel Marc Elias.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Alan Diaz, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             396 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Two truths about the election results

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 501 words


Three weeks after Election Day, amid a swirl of news reports about recounts and
voter fraud, two truths are worth remembering:

Recounts in three states that helped put Donald Trump over the top have no
chance of reversing the result.

There is no evidence of any significant voter fraud, despite assertions to the
contrary by the president-elect.

Let's start with the recounts. Green Party candidate Jill Stein wants them in
Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, all of which defied pre-election polls and
went Republican in the presidential race. It's impossible not to see the irony,
and the backside covering, here.

Stein argued during the campaign that Hillary Clinton -- who promised to expand
Social Security and make college virtually free -- was not liberal enough and
was too close to Wall Street. Now that voters have elected a billionaire
president, who is likely to name at least two other billionaires to his cabinet
and try to repeal Obamacare, Stein says something was amiss.

Yes, something was amiss: the delusional approach of liberals. By failing to
embrace the Democratic nominee, progressives helped elect someone opposed to
their most cherished beliefs.

While Stein is within her rights in asking for recounts, she stands zero chance
of success. Trump's margin of victory ranges from 10,704 in Michigan to more
than 70,000 in Pennsylvania. All three states would have to switch to change the
election's outcome.

Only three times since 2000 have preliminary results been changed after
statewide recounts. In all three cases, which involved non-presidential races,
the change was in the hundreds, not the thousands or tens of thousands, of
votes.

In expressing support for the recount, even the Clinton campaign acknowledged it
had found no "evidence of manipulation of results" and that even in the closest
of the states, Michigan, Trump's lead "exceeds the largest margin ever overcome
in a recount."

You'd think that Trump would embrace this conclusion and welcome recounts to lay
to rest any doubts about his victory. But his ego appears to require that he
capture the popular vote -- where he is currently more than 2 million votes
behind Clinton -- along with the Electoral College and the White House.

So in a tweet on Sunday, Trump proclaimed: "In addition to winning the Electoral
College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of
people who voted illegally."

Millions? Voted illegally? Where is this coming from? Nowhere. It's false.

This month's election was one of the most closely-watched ever. A huge
monitoring program by Pro Publica, a non-profit investigative outlet, which
included 400 partner newspapers (including USA TODAY), found "no evidence the
election was 'rigged' no matter what Stein or Trump say."

Yes, some problems exist with voter registration rolls. But there is zero proof
of consequential fraud at the polls. Trump seems determined to be a sore winner.
He might, in fact, be the first victor to question the integrity of the election
he won.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             397 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Why Clinton is backing recounts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 376 words


Excerpts from a statement posted on Medium by Clinton campaign lawyer Mark
Elias:

Over the last few days, officials in the Clinton campaign have received hundreds
of messages, emails, and calls urging us to do something, anything, to
investigate claims that the election results were hacked and altered in a way to
disadvantage Secretary Clinton.

The concerns have arisen, in particular, with respect to Michigan, Wisconsin and
Pennsylvania  --  three states that together proved decisive in this
presidential election and where the combined margin of victory for Donald Trump
was merely 107,000 votes.

We certainly understand the heartbreak felt by so many who worked so hard to
elect Hillary Clinton, and it is a fundamental principle of our democracy to
ensure that every vote is properly counted.

Moreover, this election cycle was unique in the degree of foreign interference
witnessed throughout the campaign: the U.S. government concluded that Russian
state actors were behind the hacks of the Democratic National Committee and the
personal email accounts of Hillary for America campaign officials.

For all these reasons, we have quietly taken a number of steps in the last two
weeks to rule in or out any possibility of outside interference in the vote
tally in these critical battleground states.

Because we had not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or outside
attempts to alter the voting technology, we had not planned to exercise this
(recount) option ourselves, but now that a recount has been initiated in
Wisconsin, we intend to participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a
manner that is fair to all sides. If Jill Stein follows through as she has
promised and pursues recounts in Pennsylvania and Michigan, we will take the
same approach in those states as well.

We do so fully aware that the number of votes separating Donald Trump and
Hillary Clinton in the closest of these states  --  Michigan  --  well exceeds
the largest margin ever overcome in a recount. But regardless of the potential
to change the outcome in any of the states, we feel it is important, on
principle, to ensure our campaign is legally represented in any court
proceedings and represented on the ground in order to monitor the recount
process itself.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             398 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                FA CHASE EDITION

Trump picks Obamacare critic Tom Price to head HHS;
Pence hints at a host of 'very important' announcements

BYLINE: David Jackson, and Steph Solis, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 566 words


In a sign of plans to roll back President Obama's health care law,
President-elect Donald Trump plans to nominate Georgia congressman and outspoken
Obama critic Tom Price to be secretary of Health and Human Services, officials
said.

Ex-House speaker Newt Gingrich, a frequent Trump adviser, tweeted that Price
will make a "great" HHS secretary, and "is the right leader to help Congress
replace Obamacare."

A transition official confirmed the planned nomination, speaking on condition of
anonymity until the announcement is made official, perhaps on Tuesday.

Price, who serves as chairman of the House budget committee, is an orthopedic
surgeon, policy wonk and a staunch opponent of Obamacare who could prove crucial
in Trump's efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act if confirmed.

Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who is leading Trump's transition team, told
reporters Monday night to expect "a number of very important announcements
tomorrow." He didn't elaborate.

While conducting an unusually public search for secretary of State, Trump again
threatened Monday to terminate emerging diplomatic relations with Cuba if it
does not somehow reform.

"If Cuba is unwilling to make a better deal for the Cuban people, the
Cuban/American people and the U.S. as a whole, I will terminate deal," Trump
tweeted two days after the death of former Cuba leader Fidel Castro.

Interviews at Trump Tower on Monday included one with retired general and ex-CIA
director David Petraeus, a potential pick in the  battle for secretary of State.

On Tuesday, Trump is scheduled to meet with another State Department
possibility, Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. The president-elect also has a second interview lined up
for 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, whose possible appointment
as secretary of State has drawn criticism from Trump backers.

"It's going to be a busy week," Pence told reporters in the lobby of Trump Tower
en route to meetings. "Get ready. Buckle up."

Petraeus told reporters that he and Trump spoke for about an hour, and the
president-elect "showed a great grasp of a variety of the challenges that are
out there, and some of the opportunities as well."

Calling it a "very good conversation," Petraeus said that "we'll see where it
goes from here."

One challenge is Cuba.

The Obama administration has engaged in a series of diplomatic moves with the
Cuban regime, from agreeing to commercial flights to the opening of embassy
offices in each nation's capital.

Trump, who made a similar claim regarding Cuba during the presidential campaign,
has not specified how he might roll back these initiatives.

The president-elect's latest moves came a day after he used Twitter to expound
conspiracy theories about alleged voter fraud, suggesting that is the reason he
lost to Democrat Hillary Clinton by more than 2 million votes in the latest
tallies.

After a series of tweets criticizing Clinton and aides for participating in a
vote recount in Wisconsin, Trump said in another post: "In addition to winning
the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the
millions of people who voted illegally."

He provided no evidence for that assertion, popular among conspiracy theorists.

Trump also claimed voter fraud in the states of Virginia, New Hampshire, and
California, again without evidence.

Solis reported from Washington

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Alan Diaz, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             399 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Wisconsin denies recount request;
Stein vows lawsuit, takes aim at Pa. and Mich. as well

BYLINE: Jason Stein, and Patrick Marley, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 516 words


Green Party candidate Jill Stein continued her quest Monday for a recount of the
presidential election but was thwarted by the Wisconsin Elections Commission,
which rejected her request to require a count by hand.

Stein quickly responded that she would sue and also filed a lawsuit in
Pennsylvania to force a recount there, and her supporters began filing recount
requests at the precinct level. Initial results showed Republican Donald Trump
ahead of Democrat Hillary Clinton by 70,638 votes.

The commission set a timetable Monday for a recount of the presidential
election.

Stein -- who received just a tiny piece of the vote -- also plans to ask for a
recount in Michigan on Wednesday, according to Mark Brewer, former chairman of
the Michigan Democratic Party and lawyer for Stein.

Michigan's Board of Canvassers certified its election results Monday afternoon,
showing Trump won the presidential race by a 10,704-vote margin over Clinton.

The certification made the election results official, but it also started the
48-hour clock for Stein to seek a recount.

Stein, who has raised more than $6.3 million online to pay for recounts in
Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan, she's not requesting the recounts because
she thinks they will change the outcome of the presidential race. Instead, she
said in a video on her Facebook page, that she picked the three states where the
vote was the closest to ensure the integrity of the election.

The Clinton campaign announced Saturday that it will participate in the
Wisconsin recount to ensure fairness.

Trump called the effort a "scam" aimed at filling the Green Party's "coffers."

In addition, Trump alleged in a tweet that there was "serious voter fraud" in
Virginia, New Hampshire and California and blamed the media for not reporting on
it. No evidence of fraud was given.

The states must complete their recounts by a Dec. 13 deadline set by the federal
government. The big deadline is Dec. 19 when all of the states' electors must
meet to cast their Electoral College votes. States that miss those deadlines
risk not having their electoral votes counted.

Unless Stein wins her lawsuit in Dane County Circuit Court, officials in each of
Wisconsin's 72 counties would decide on their own whether to do their recounts
by hand. That could mean some counties perform recounts by machine and some by
hand.

Citing the results of a 2011 statewide recount that changed only 300 votes,
Elections Commission chairman Mark Thomsen, a Democrat, said this presidential
recount is unlikely to change Trump's win in the state.

"It may not be 22,177," said Thomsen, referring to Trump's lead over Democrat
Hillary Clinton in the vote count. "But I don't doubt that the president-elect
is going to win that."

Thomsen dismissed Stein's claims of problems with the vote as unfounded and
misleading. But he directed his toughest criticism to Trump's unsupported
allegations that millions of people voted illegally nationwide, calling them "an
insult to the people that run our elections."

Contributing: Paul Egan and Kathleen Gray, Detroit Free Press, and Will
Cummings, USA TODAY.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             400 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

In big about-face, tech industry doing its best to get Trump's ear

BYLINE: Jon Swartz, @jswartz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1054 words


For the past year, the tech industry shunned Donald Trump, and he shamed it.
Now, the president-elect and the $2.9 trillion sector find themselves thrust
into a shotgun marriage.

"Much of the business is in a wait-and-see mode," says Meg Whitman, CEO of
Hewlett Packard Enterprise, one of the largest tech companies in the world and a
Hillary Clinton supporter. "We adapt and make the most of the situation."

Many in tech supported Clinton, and they expected her to win. With Trump as
president-elect, they are hastily revising plans.

One difficulty: Trump has no discernible tech plan nor has he openly courted
tech executives. For those in Silicon Valley and beyond, he is the great
unknown, and his potential Cabinet is creating fears of restrictions on skilled
immigrant workers, weakened cybersecurity, punishing tariffs on products made in
China and unrelenting pressure to bring  manufacturing jobs to the U.S.

"Most of the planning (by tech companies) had been done under the assumption
that Hillary would win," says Deven Parekh, managing director at Insight Venture
Partners. "There was a big transition team for her ready to go, which included
technology-related issues."

It has made for an uneasy climate, but tech executives and trade associations
say they've accepted the election results and want to work with Team Trump.

Gary Shapiro, CEO of the Consumer Technology Association, voted for Clinton
after supporting Republican candidates in the last four presidential elections.
He welcomes working with the Trump administration but doesn't know what to
expect.

"We reached out to Trump and Clinton, and we didn't get a response from him. Am
I concerned? Of course I'm concerned," says Shapiro, whose trade organization
represents more than 2,200 companies, including Amazon, Uber and Apple.

"The people he reached out to were not in tech, but in flyover territory,"
Shapiro says.

Still, there is overlap between Silicon Valley and Trump's transition team, with
its ties to real estate, venture funding and other businesses. A main connector?
Peter Thiel. The influential venture capitalist and Facebook board member
donated $1.25 million to Trump's campaign. He was a delegate for Trump and spoke
at the Republican National Convention.

Thiel doesn't have a formal role during the transition but has spent nearly two
weeks advising the Trump team.

The investor isn't the valley's only link to Trump, but he appears to be its
strongest one. Joe Lonsdale, founding partner at 8VC, a Silicon Valley-based
tech investment fund, has his own connections to the Trump camp as well as
strong ties to House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.).

A Trump spokesperson was unavailable for comment.

Driving tech executives to find a receptive ear in the Trump administration is a
platform that was generally unfriendly to the tech industry. Trump's populist
message of restrictive immigration, manufacturing in America, privacy and
hard-line stance on trade agreements is of paramount concern.

Conversely, his views on reduced taxation and regulation could benefit an
industry with which he is a stranger.

"Absent a tech plan, we need to look at his stances on immigration, taxation and
privacy and extrapolate how it applies to tech," says Lee Tien, senior staff
attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation. "That's a risky proposition."

Along his improbable journey, Trump has blasted Amazon for not paying enough
taxes and a surrogate of his skewered Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg for perceived
anti-Trump comments.

Apple, in particular, could be in the crosshairs of a Trump administration. Over
the past year, Trump has chastised Apple and other hardware makers to build more
products in the U.S. instead of China. As a candidate, he demanded a boycott of
Apple when it didn't cave to the FBI's request to hack the iPhone of one of the
San Bernardino, Calif., shooters.

Or, as has been the case with Trump the candidate vs. Trump the president-elect,
was it just posturing in a pre-emptive negotiating tactic?

Trump said Apple CEO Tim Cook and Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates called him
after his election but declined to say what they talked about, according to a
meeting he had with The New York Times last week.

The underlying contempt for elitism, as personified by West Coast-based
companies with high-intellect founders and socially conscious CEOs, was
articulated by White House chief strategist Steve Bannon in an interview with
The Hollywood Reporter.

"The globalists gutted the American working class and created a middle class in
Asia. The issue now is about Americans looking to not get (expletive) over. If
we deliver," Bannon said. "That's what the Democrats missed. They were talking
to these people with companies with a $9 billion market cap employing nine
people. It's not reality. They lost sight of what the world is about."

The thinly-veiled swipe at unicorns offers another layer of uncertainty in
Silicon Valley, tech pockets throughout the U.S. and the Beltway.

"He's spent a lot of time on Twitter but hasn't said much about tech during the
campaign," says Rep. Suzan DelBene, D-Wash., a former Microsoft executive. "We
need a conversation about tech and government's use of tech. It won't happen
without input from the tech community."

DelBene, who has worked closely with Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., another tech
alumnus, is hopeful the new administration does not derail progress on
bipartisan tech issues such as privacy and the Internet of Things.

The concern is palpable from an industry that has felt the wrath of Trump's
tweets and unpredictability..

ITI CEO Dean Garfield, whose organization represents more than 60 tech
companies, including Apple, Microsoft and Facebook, is optimistic about Trump's
vow to invest up to $1 trillion into infrastructure. It could be a boon for
Internet of Things devices such as sensors for roadways that enable driverless
cars to interact and communicate.

A much-rumored bipartisan infrastructure plan that could bring jobs to the Rust
Belt might involve tech companies, Garfield and Shapiro say.

Last year, Speaker Ryan supported an infrastructure plan by Sen. Charles Schumer
(D-N.Y.) in which hundreds of billions of dollars would be raised through a
one-time "repatriation" of profits from big companies' overseas earnings in
exchange for lower tax rates.

Contributing: Jessica Guynn

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo JEWEL SAMAD, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             401 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Chastain enters the political fray;
Ambition suits her well as a power player in 'Miss Sloane'

BYLINE: Andrea Mandell, @andreamandell, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 501 words


After a contentious election, Miss Sloane arrives rife with lessons on cloudy
American politics.

In the new political thriller (in select theaters in Los Angeles and New York,
expands nationwide Dec. 9), Jessica Chastain takes the reins as the ferociously
intelligent (fictional) Republican lobbyist Elizabeth Sloane, who ditches a
high-profile job to push a bill restricting firearm sales through Congress.

"It's not interested in lecturing anyone," says the actress, curling up on a
couch at the Four Seasons. She says Miss Sloane, which reveals the
sausage-making on (and off) Capitol Hill, could just as easily have used an
issue such as climate change or immigration to make its point.

"It just uses that to show an inner world of the American political system and
the fundraising -- what it takes to get a bill passed and how corrupt the system
can be when it's led by money," she says.

Chastain, 39, spent pre-production Googling top female lobbyists and walked away
from a trip to Washington with a decidedly different take on Sloane, a character
she presumed would wear little makeup and rotate the same wardrobe day in and
out.

"It was almost naïve of me to think that, because there's something about the
way Elizabeth Sloane dresses and about some of the women that I met in D.C.
where they intimidate before they even enter the room," says the actress, whose
character's war paint is dark nail polish and crimson lipstick.

Critics are praising her performance in the film, which has a 72% positive
rating on the review site Rotten Tomatoes. "Equally icy and savvy, Sloane has no
patience for hippies, naïve Millennials or the old boys' club, whose glass
ceiling she's pretty much pulverizing with a jackhammer any chance she gets,"
wrote USA TODAY critic Brian Truitt.

The  criticism lobbed at Hillary Clinton in the presidential election is top of
mind for the actress. During the debates, "the criticism against Hillary was
that she was overprepared. I never heard in my entire life that a man was
overprepared for anything. I am overprepared in my life," she says. "What's
wrong with being ambitious, being overprepared, being one step ahead?"

Offscreen, Chastain seems ready to recalibrate her fame. The private star has
even started sharing a  slice of her personal life via Instagram, selectively
posting occasional shots with her longtime boyfriend, fashion executive Gian
Luca Passi de Preposulo. "Gian Luca and I have been together for such a long
time, we're in it for the long haul," she says.

She's also switching gears after working relentlessly, having just wrapped the
Sitting Bull drama Woman Walks Ahead and just started the Aaron Sorkin-directed
Molly's Game in Toronto.

"I'm at an interesting point in my life and in my career. A few years ago, I
started to examine where I was in the world and what I was contributing to
society," says Chastain, adding that she's ready to direct and share the
spotlight.

"It becomes like you're eating cake every day. You just want to share the cake!"


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Dan MacMedan, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             402 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Tech now turns to Trump pal Thiel;
Many in Silicon Valley want to hitch a ride on his coattails

BYLINE: Jessica Guynn, @jguynn, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 912 words


Peter Thiel's phone is ringing a lot more these days from people in Silicon
Valley looking for a line into the Trump administration.

During the presidential campaign, the billionaire investor who served as a
delegate for Donald Trump and spoke at the Republican National Convention was a
lone emissary from the tech world, widely shunned by the  industry that bet
heavily on Hillary Clinton. His $1.25 million donation to support the election
of Trump prompted angry calls for Thiel to be dropped from the Facebook board
and from Y Combinator, a prominent start-up incubator where he is a part-time
adviser.

Now Silicon Valley is looking to hitch a ride into Trump Tower on his coattails.

Thiel has not taken a formal role during the transition but has spent nearly two
weeks advising the Trump team. He's expected to play a key role in representing
the interests of the tech industry on regulatory and policy matters in
Washington, along with a small group of conservatives from his circle, such as
Palantir Technologies co-founder and venture capitalist Joe Lonsdale, who has
ties to House Speaker Paul Ryan. Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law and trusted
adviser, also has deep connections to the  industry.

Thiel has said he is not vying for a full-time position in the Trump
administration. "I think my future is going to continue to be in the tech
industry. That's what I'm good at. That's what I enjoy doing," Thiel said during
an October speech at the National Press Club in Washington.

That's welcome news to investor Saar Gur, who says there's a lot of anxiety in
Silicon Valley over what the new administration might do and a growing push to
"be helpful." Trump's remarks on tech, his opposition to net neutrality and hard
stance on immigration have frightened tech executives, but they also see a new
opportunity to push a tech-friendly agenda.

Gur's venture capital firm, Charles River Ventures, took a very public stand
against Trump before the election, creating a fellowship program for immigrant
entrepreneurs to protest Trump's anti-immigration policies. Gur says he has
taken part in a variety of brainstorming conference calls in Silicon Valley that
have yet to yield "a productive game plan."

"Peter is the best person to mobilize all this energy into something
productive," Gur said.

That's a new role for Thiel, who for years has been Silicon Valley's resident
contrarian. Thiel declined an interview request through a representative.

The PayPal co-founder's electronic payments company flourished among the
wreckage of the dot-com crash. His early bet on Facebook -- he was the first
outside investor -- netted him a fortune that Forbes pegs at $2.7 billion. But
his controversial ideas on everything from living at sea to escape the clutches
of government regulation to paying aspiring entrepreneurs to drop out of college
have frequently put him on the fringes of the Silicon Valley mainstream.

Nothing made him more of an outlier than his bet on Trump. Even Geoff Lewis, one
of Thiel's partners at venture capital firm Founders Fund, publicly criticized
Trump after the election in a Medium post. "If we take Trump seriously, it may
not be safe for me to write a post like this a year from now," Lewis wrote.

In July, dozens of tech executives including Slack CEO Stewart Butterfield and
venture capitalist Vinod Khosla signed an open letter on Medium, warning a Trump
presidency would be a "disaster for innovation" that could threaten the
country's thriving tech economy.

Thiel struck back against Silicon Valley "elites" that he said were ignoring the
economic plight of many Americans. "What Donald Trump represents isn't crazy,
and it's not going away," he said during the National Press Club speech.

Gur says Trump's victory was a wake-up call to Silicon Valley, whose technology
is creating great wealth for some while eliminating jobs for many.

"I think there is some potential for Silicon Valley to be more involved and to
understand these issues and understand the middle-America displacement issues
and what we can do about it," he said. "Peter has a real chance to engage the
community and get people involved."

Many in Silicon Valley are hoping Thiel's influence with the Trump
administration will bode well for them. He is a major backer of artificial
intelligence and big data companies -- he co-founded Palantir Technologies,
which recently won a case against the Department of Defense over being sidelined
from competing for government contracts -- and he has taken major stakes in the
booming sharing economy with home-rental company Airbnb and ride-hailing company
Lyft. In speeches, Thiel has advocated for greater government investments in
science and technology.

"We can expect Peter to look out for his own interests the same way we can
expect Trump to," Gur said.

A big winner in that regard is Facebook, which stood by its board member Thiel
through two recent controversies. Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive of Facebook,
refused to ask Thiel to step down, even as women and people of color accused
Thiel of embracing racism and intolerance with his support of Trump.

Zuckerberg told employees in an internal Facebook memo that while he did not
endorse Thiel's views, cutting ties with him would set a troubling precedent.

"We care deeply about diversity," Zuckerberg wrote. "That's easy to say when it
means standing up for ideas you agree with. It's a lot harder when it means
standing up for the rights of people with different viewpoints."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Drew Angerer, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             403 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Gingrich: Trump tweet misfired;
Calls voter fraud claim big mistake; sneers at Romney

BYLINE: Susan Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 686 words


Former House speaker Newt Gingrich calls Donald Trump a potentially
transformative president. But he shouldn't have sent out that tweet alleging
election fraud.

In an interview Tuesday with Capital Download, Gingrich, a free-wheeling Trump
adviser who is a vice chairman of his transition team, described the
president-elect as a leader who is poised to disrupt the regular order in a way
no commander in chief has done since Andrew Jackson in the 19th century.

But he also said Trump's biggest misstep in the three weeks since he won the
White House was to post Sunday on Twitter a complaint about widespread voter
fraud -- in an election he won. "In addition to winning the Electoral College in
a landslide," Trump wrote, "I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of
people who voted illegally."

"The president of the United States can't randomly tweet without having somebody
check it out," Gingrich told USA TODAY's weekly video newsmaker series. "It
makes you wonder about whatever else he's doing. It undermines much more than a
single tweet."

Does he see any evidence of millions of illegal votes?

"No," Gingrich says.

The former House speaker, who led a political disruption of his own when
Republicans won control of the House of Representatives in 1994, says the best
thing Trump has done so far is to name campaign chairman Steve Bannon and
Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus to his top White House
staff. "You have a very hard-line conservative warrior as your chief strategist,
and you have a really sophisticated manager of the establishment as your chief
of staff," he says.

That said, Gingrich is caustic toward another potential Trump appointment, of
Mitt Romney, the GOP's 2012 presidential nominee. Trump and Romney were slated
to meet Tuesday for a second time, reportedly to discuss the role of secretary
of State for the GOP's 2012 nominee, who was perhaps Trump's fiercest Republican
critic during the campaign.

"I think it's outrageous," Gingrich says. "Romney said vile and vicious things.
Romney opposed him all the way up to the election. In my judgment, Romney will
be a very high risk ... because I think Romney has zero interest in the Trump
revolution and every interest in re-establishing his own credentials."

Although he views former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani as a better choice,
Gingrich says House Speaker Paul Ryan "is very strongly in favor of Romney" and
that Priebus is "pretty strongly" in favor of him. Trump campaign manager
Kellyanne Conway, however, has warned of a grass-roots revolt if Romney is named
to the Cabinet's top job.

When he met with Trump last week, Gingrich says, the president-elect "commented,
'This is really a bigger job than I thought.' Which is good. He should think
that." As president, Gingrich went on, "you have war and peace, you have
enormous powers ... and it all comes down to the Oval Office and it all comes
down to you."

He argues that Trump, who hasn't held a news conference since July, should feel
no obligation to hold any as president, suggesting instead he solicit questions
from the public to answer. "The news media so totally disgraced itself in this
election, if I were Trump I would just say no," Gingrich says. "And if the White
House Correspondents Association doesn't like it, I'd say, 'Fine, disband.'"

Gingrich says the political world hasn't yet come to grips with the sort of
fundamental change the election of "the most insurgent president in American
history" could bring. He describes Trump as "one-third Andrew Jackson in
disruption, one-third Theodore Roosevelt in sheer energy, and one-third P.T.
Barnum in selling all the time."

But he says Trump might need to occasionally curb his instincts.

"He should tweet, but he ought to have an editorial board in between the first
draft and sending it," he suggests -- not an idea Trump seems likely to accept.
"But he shouldn't give it up, and he shouldn't give up being Donald Trump. He
got elected being this unique, charismatic, entrepreneurial guy who breaks lots
of rules. ... If he starts getting to be normal, he'll cease being Donald J.
Trump."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Sean Dougherty, USA TODAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             404 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump flip-flops, and that's not a bad thing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 524 words


During his campaign for the White House, Donald Trump made a series of
unattainable promises and took a series of extreme positions.

Now, as president elect, he's having to reconcile his stances with the situation
he finds himself in, also known as the real world. And that has meant some
significant course corrections, to put things politely, or flip-flops, to use a
less generous term. By one count, Trump has made at least 15 about-faces in the
three weeks since the election.

Last week, for instance, he acknowledged he would not seek appointment of a
special prosecutor to pursue a criminal case against his former rival, Hillary
Clinton, after vowing to do so in the second presidential debate. He also
expressed an openness to revising his positions on torture and the Paris
agreement on climate change.

These came on top of a number of earlier changes. Soon after the election, Trump
said he wanted to keep some portions of the Affordable Care Act, after vowing to
repeal it in full. He also admitted that deporting all 11 million undocumented
immigrants would be impractical and that some of his wall along the U.S.-Mexico
border might actually be a fence. He even had kind words for President Obama
after vilifying the incumbent for years.

Normally, we'd criticize a politician for all these flip-flops. And, with the
erratic Trump, there's always a possibility he'll flip right back to his
previous positions. But, on the whole, his moves are a  welcome acknowledgment
that the actual responsibilities of being president are a lot different from
being a candidate.

Calls to jail Clinton for her use of a private server while secretary of State
might have energized a Republican base, but an actual prosecution would generate
a firestorm of controversy for politicizing the legal system.

Similarly,  repeal of  Obamacare, without a careful plan to replace it, would
cast some 20 million people into limbo and do little for the GOP's popularity.

While Trump is at it, we'd like to see him tone down some of his other reckless
campaign pledges, such as his promises to tear up the Iran nuclear pact and
various trade deals.

But the president-elect is likely to soon find that these course corrections
themselves will have consequences. Many hard-line conservatives will start to
see him as too moderate. And even voters drawn to his maverick qualities, who
might not have taken him literally, will start to see him as just another
conventional politician who tells people what he thinks they want to hear.

Even with vague platforms that are hard to pin down, elected officials often
fall short of their promises. The website Politifact, for instance, finds that
Obama has only delivered on 45% of the original campaign pledges he made back in
2008. He broke his promise 23% of the time and agreed to a compromise that
produced partial results 26% of the time. (The remainder were either blocked or
are still playing out.)

Trump's campaign was engineered to win, not to govern after a victory. Now the
question is whether he can adjust to reality without breeding even more of the
cynicism that helped propel him into office in the first place.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Pablo Martinez Monsivais, AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             405 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Treasury pick is known as risk taker;
Ex-Wall Street banker has record of hits and misses

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, @kmccoynyc, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 983 words


From buying a failed bank during the U.S. financial crisis to producing major
movies and serving as national finance chairman for Donald Trump's presidential
campaign, Steven Mnuchin has a record of winning risky bets.

Now the former Wall Street banker is poised for what could be his biggest
challenge yet: Trump's nominee for  Treasury secretary.

Trump was  likely  to officially name Mnuchin (mi-NOO-chin), 53, as his choice
for the nation's top financial policy job as soon as Wednesday, a source close
to Trump's transition team told USA TODAY on Tuesday. The person spoke on
condition of anonymity because officials were not authorized to speak publicly
about selections.

The news that Mnuchin is Trump's pick came as reports swirled that Trump would
nominate billionaire Wilbur Ross, also considered a risk taker, to serve as
Commerce secretary. Ross, 79, made a career  of buying ailing companies in
sometimes troubled sectors on the cheap, restructuring them and then selling
them for billions of dollars. Ross, too, could be announced as early as
Wednesday, the source close to the transition team said.

Trump has praised Mnuchin, who with the Republican National Committee helped
raise tens of millions of dollars for the billionaire businessman's campaign.
However, they weren't always the best of friends. Mnuchin did not respond to USA
TODAY interview requests.

In a 2008 lawsuit, Trump targeted one of Mnuchin's companies, alleging Deutsche
Bank and others improperly balked at extending multimillion-dollar construction
loans on the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago. The case ultimately
was settled.

Mnuchin, a twice-married father of three, is a Yale graduate who followed his
father to renowned U.S. investment bank Goldman Sachs. He  spent 17 years there,
amassing a fortune and becoming an executive vice president of the New York
City-based company before his 2003 departure.

His next stop was ESL International, the hedge fund founded by Edward Lampert,
one of Mnuchin's Yale roommates and another Goldman alumnus who now is the CEO
and chairman of Sears Holdings. Lampert tapped him for a board seat on Sears
Holdings-owned retail chain Kmart in 2003.  Mnuchin left  to become chief
executive of SFM Capital Managment,  backed by financier George Soros.

Mnuchin's SFM tenure was similarly brief. In 2004, he co-founded private hedge
fund Dune Capital Management with Daniel Neidich, another former Goldman
executive. The fund invested in equities and real estate -- including some Trump
projects.

The fund invested in the U.S. movie industry. Starting in 2006, Mnuchin reached
a three-year deal in which Dune Entertainment agreed to invest $500 million in
20th Century Fox movies, according to  news media reports.

The transaction launched a deeper Mnuchin dive into entertainment investments
and co-producing that  included the Hollywood blockbusters Avatar and the X-Men
franchise, American Sniper, Gravity and The Lego Movie.

In 2013, Mnuchin, filmmaker Brett Ratner and Australian businessman James Packer
joined in an entity called RatPac-Dune Entertainment that agreed to $300 million
in co-financing for as many as 75 films by Warner Bros. Pictures, according to
the movie company and media reports.

The following year, Mnuchin partnered with Ryan Kavanaugh and an investment
group to buy debt and an equity stake in Kavanaugh's Relativity Media.

Five years before taking the Relativity post, he led an investor group that
bought California-based IndyMac Bank, which collapsed  during the financial
crisis.

IndyMac became OneWest Bank, with Mnuchin as chairman. The deal drew criticism
because it was finalized before FDIC Chair Sheila Bair instituted a change that
would require private equity buyers like the Mnuchin-led group to maintain a 10%
leverage ratio at newly resurrected banks and hold the investments for at least
three years.

Criticism and lawsuits

New criticism -- and lawsuits -- came after Relativity Media sought federal
bankruptcy court protection in July 2015. By then, Mnuchin had left the movie
company's board. And he was weeks away from selling OneWest Bank to CIT Group at
a price that produced a hefty profit for him and fellow investors -- $3.4billion
in cash and stock, more than doubling their investment.

One of Relativity Media's creditors, RKA Film Financing, took a cynical view of
Mnuchin's dual involvement with the movie company and the bank -- which was also
owed millions by Relativity.

In a 2016 New York Supreme Court lawsuit, RKA said Relativity's collapse
"amounted to a classic Ponzi scheme," and labeled its CEO Kavanaugh "a con man."

Mnuchin had held "a unique position," the lawsuit alleged, "affording him
knowledge of both Relativity's precarious financial position and the ability to
ensure certain creditors -- namely OneWest Bank -- were able to siphon away
funds that had been commingled" with RKA's investments.

The lawsuit also charged that OneWest swept approximately $50 million from
Relativity's bank accounts before the collapse.

A Mnuchin court filing called his inclusion in RKA's lawsuit "not just baseless,
but sanctionable."

He moved to throw out the case, as did Kavanaugh. Manhattan Supreme Court
Justice Charles Ramos dismissed the lawsuit in  October.

Though Mnuchin is best known publicly for his business dealings, he and his
family also became known as some of the thousands of investors caught up in the
aftermath of Bernard Madoff's notorious Ponzi scheme.

More than $3 million that Mnuchin and his brother inherited from their deceased
mother's estate represented fictitious profits from Madoff's estimated
$20billion scam, court-appointed trustee Irving Picard alleged in a 2010
bankruptcy court filing.

But a court decision said the family's withdrawals, and similar Madoff payouts
to other investors, had occurred more than two years before the scheme
collapsed.

Contributing: Ray Locker and Paul Davidson

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             406 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

3 weeks, 3 lessons about Trump's emerging presidency

BYLINE: Susan Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1314 words


Donald Trump's tweetstorm charging, without evidence, that the election included
"millions" of illegal voters is just the latest reminder of how distinctive his
emerging presidency promises to be.

Three weeks after he surprised even his supporters by winning the White House,
the president-elect has begun to provide important clues about how he'll govern.
Through words, actions and appointments -- by what he's done so far, and what he
has delayed doing -- the nation's 45th president has cut a course that is a mix
of the predictable and the unprecedented.

Just like his campaign.

There's no template for Trump in office because Trump has never held office
before, the first president in American history to have neither military command
nor governmental experience. He moves into the Oval Office having had little
backing from the political establishment that typically is tapped to form a new
government. And he doesn't feel bound to follow his predecessors' practices,
even down to his plans to divide his time between Washington and his hometown of
New York.

That makes the search for clues of what's ahead even more intense than usual.
Here are three lessons we've learned already:

1. The first Twitter president

How will Trump communicate with Americans? Let's look at what he's done since
he was declared the president-elect through  Tuesday morning.

News conferences: zero.

Tweets and retweets: 77 and counting.

Trump hasn't had a news conference since the election. Indeed, he hasn't held a
news conference since July, when he moved from being one of the most accessible
presidential candidates in memory to one of the least. At that point, he began
to rely mostly on speaking to a handful of preferred news outlets and, notably,
social media.

Trump has more than 16 million followers on his @realDonaldTrump Twitter account
and more than 15 million on his verified Facebook page. What's more, the @POTUS
Twitter account (the acronym for president of the United States) that he'll
inherit from President Obama has more than 12 million followers.

That gives Trump a personal circulation on social media bigger than any American
newspaper or TV evening news broadcast. It's a way for him to communicate with
his supporters and spark stories in news outlets around the world without being
subjected to the follow-up questions reporters presumably would pose.

Since the election, he has posted messages along traditional presidential lines,
from wishing the Marine Corps a happy 241st birthday ("Thank you for your
service!!") to sending Thanksgiving wishes to the nation. But he also has
blasted "the failing @nytimes," castigated the cast of Broadway's Hamilton for
reading a message from stage to Vice President-elect Mike Pence, and suggested
Saturday Night Live owed him "equal time" in response to its satiric portrayals
of him.

Over the weekend, he bashed moves by Green Party nominee Jill Stein to seek
recounts in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, states Trump narrowly carried.
He said without substantiation that fraud had given rival Hillary Clinton a lead
in the popular vote of more than 2 million. "In addition to winning the
Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the
millions of people who voted illegally," he wrote.

Monday night, he retweeted five posts denouncing a CNN report that questioned
his evidence for that claim.

2. Loyalty. And its limits.

Loyalty matters to Trump, but there seem to be limits.

Two top campaign aides quickly landed ranking White House jobs, Reince Priebus
as chief of staff and Steve Bannon as senior counselor. Alabama Sen. Jeff
Sessions, the first senator to endorse Trump, was named attorney general.
Retired Army lieutenant general Michael Flynn, a close adviser during the
campaign, will be national security adviser.

But New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who enthusiastically endorsed Trump but
remains embroiled in the Bridgegate scandal on his home turf, is on the outs,
bumped from his role as head of the transition. Former New York City mayor Rudy
Giuliani, who continued to publicly defend Trump even in the immediate wake of
the vulgar Access Hollywood video, hasn't won the job he wants, secretary of
State, at least not yet.

Which brings us to forgiveness, and its limits.

A rival candidate for  the nation's top diplomatic post, and to be fourth in
line for the presidency, is Mitt Romney. During the campaign, the GOP's 2012
presidential nominee was Trump's most scathing critic from the ranks of senior
Republicans. In a speech in March, Romney called Trump "a phony, a fraud,"
"very, very not smart" and a failed businessman who advocated "ridiculous and
dangerous" ideas.

Still, Romney was  scheduled to meet with Trump for a second time Tuesday to
talk about the State Department job, an idea that heartens establishment
Republicans but enrages some of those who had supported Trump at the time Romney
was denouncing him. "People feel betrayed to think that Gov. Romney, who went
out of his way to question the character and the intellect and the integrity of
Donald Trump, now our president-elect, would be given the most significant
Cabinet post of all, secretary of State," Kellyanne Conway, Trump's former
campaign manager, said Sunday on NBC's Meet the Press.

The battle between Romney and Giuliani could clear the way for some other
prospect, such as Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker of Tennessee.

Trump  appointed South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley as United Nations ambassador
and Betsy DeVos as Education secretary. Both endorsed others during the
Republican primaries, and Haley was particularly critical of Trump. She labeled
him "everything a governor doesn't want in a president."

Unlike Romney, though, she did say she was voting for him in the general
election.

3. Brotherhood of billionaires

Rich folks often fare well in the bid for presidential appointments. Major
campaign contributors routinely are nominated to serve as ambassadors to idyllic
locales -- think Paris, not Kabul -- and to head agencies such as the Commerce
Department. In 1953, Dwight Eisenhower's Cabinet, heavy with corporate
executives, was dubbed "nine millionaires and a plumber." (Trivia alert: Who was
the plumber? Labor Secretary Martin Durkin, a former president of the plumbers
and pipefitters union. He  lasted only eight months in the job.)

But the bank accounts of Trump's Cabinet appointees seem likely to overwhelm any
previous administration. DeVos' family is heir to the huge Amway fortune. Trump
was expected to announce Wilbur Ross, the billionaire businessman known as the
"king of bankruptcy," to head Commerce. Steve Mnuchin, formerly of Goldman
Sachs, reportedly had been picked for Treasury secretary over another
billionaire, Jonathan Gray of the Blackstone private equity firm, reported to
have been a finalist.

By the way, if they take the government jobs, they will be subject to a federal
law that says executive-branch employees can't participate in government matters
in which they or their immediate families have a financial interest. That could
force them to divest some assets or put them in a blind trust.

That ethics law doesn't apply to the president and his extensive business
assets.

Trump also seems partial to generals. Besides naming Flynn, Trump has tweeted
his regard for retired Marine Corps general James ("Mad Dog") Mattis as a
prospective secretary of Defense. Mattis' appointment would require a
congressional waiver from the requirement that the Pentagon chief be out of
uniform for at least seven years. "Very impressive," Trump tweeted. "A true
General's General!"

And he met for about an hour Monday at Trump Tower with retired general David
Petraeus, who had to resign as CIA director for mishandling classified
information. He's another possible secretary of State. "Just met with General
Petraeus," Trump tweeted Monday afternoon. "Was very impressed!"

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             407 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump faces 4 more years of IRS audits

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy, @kmccoynyc, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 817 words


President-elect Donald Trump could face a decision that may affect whether his
tax returns will continue to be audited throughout his four-year term of office.

IRS regulations call for annual audits of tax returns filed by U.S. presidents
and vice presidents. But those rules, in place roughly 40 years, theoretically
could be changed by the tax agency -- whose current leader is under fire from
Capitol Hill.

The rules are included in the Internal Revenue Service Manual, which guides
actions by the nation's tax agency. It states that tax returns filed by the
president and vice president "are subject to mandatory examinations" and should
not get less-rigorous screening.

The protocol dates to the Watergate era and President Richard Nixon. He refused
to release his 1971 and 1972 tax returns, said they had been audited and
initially opposed any re-check.

Under mounting public pressure, Nixon subsequently invited an examination by the
congressional Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation. The panel's review
concluded that Nixon owed the federal government more than $476,000 in unpaid
taxes and accrued interest.

"The inclusion was made under the direction of career, non-partisan IRS
compliance personnel," Matthew Leas, the IRS chief national spokesman, said of
the audit regulation. "Since then, this provision has remained in place during
both Republican and Democratic administrations, as well as under IRS
commissioners appointed by both parties."

However, the protocol does not have the force of federal law and could be
changed -- potentially through the appointment of a new IRS commissioner.

Trump has not publicly discussed future leadership for the IRS, which is part of
the Department of the Treasury. According to numerous media reports, he has
considered several candidates for Treasury secretary, including Steven Mnuchin,
the national finance chairman of his winning White House campaign, JPMorgan
Chase CEO Jamie Dimon and Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas.

However, Trump was asked throughout the presidential campaign about his
continued refusal to release his own tax returns. Citing ongoing IRS audits for
several years, he said he would make his returns public when the examinations
concluded.

"Look, I've been under audit for almost 15 years," the GOP nominee said during
the first presidential campaign debate with Democrat Hillary Clinton in
September. "And in a way, I should be complaining. I'm not even complaining. I
don't mind it. It's almost become a way of life. I get audited by the IRS. But
other people don't."

Current IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, serving a five-year term set to end in
November 2017, has been under pressure from congressional Republicans angered by
what they contend was the tax agency's politically motivated delays of
applications for non-profit status submitted by conservative Tea Party
organizations. They say Koskinen misled Congress and obstructed committees that
investigated the issue, allegations he has denied.

Koskinen has also been criticized over the IRS' embarrassing 2015 cyber theft of
personal data for more than 700,000 taxpayers.

House Republicans started the process of initiating impeachment proceedings
against Koskinen with a Judiciary Committee hearing in September. But no votes
were held during the session. If he leaves through impeachment or resignation
after Trump takes office, Trump would nominate a successor, subject to Senate
confirmation.

IRS commissioners haven't always stepped down for a new White House
administration. Shirley Peterson, appointed in 1992 by President George H.W.
Bush, officially left as of January 1993, as Bill Clinton took office. But
Charles Rossotti, appointed by Clinton in 1997, stayed on for the opening two
years of President George W. Bush's first term following enactment of the law
that established five-year terms for IRS commissioners.

In a move to guard against any interference with the IRS, a 1998 federal law
makes it illegal for executive branch officials to ask the tax agency to
initiate or terminate an audit or investigations, Leas said. Convicted violators
are subject to a maximum $5,000 fine and five-year prison term.

Several tax law experts recently told Politico the statute wouldn't necessarily
stop the appointment of a nominee who might seek easier or tougher treatment of
certain audits.

However, Robert McKenzie, a tax expert at the Arnstein & Lehr law firm's Chicago
office, theorized that "a conscientious IRS employee would come forward and
report it if someone tried to influence him or her on an audit."

If the IRS' presidential audit regulation remains unchanged, Trump would receive
assurance that his tax returns would be treated with even stricter-than-usual
IRS security.

"The bottom line is he'd continue to be audited," Bryan Skarlatos, a tax law
expert at Kostelanetz & Fink law firm in New York, said of Trump. "And there
would be enhanced security."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             408 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Legend opens a window to his world;
'Darkness' hits home, but it also looks 'to find light'

BYLINE: Patrick Ryan, USA TODAY

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 478 words


It has been a year since John Legend wrote most of his forthcoming fifth album,
Darkness and Light. But the Grammy-winning singer/songwriter (and impassioned
Hillary Clinton supporter) says its themes have struck a new chord with him in
the weeks after the presidential election.

"It feels more relevant than it would have otherwise, because the album talks
about an uncertain world that can be dark and troublesome at times, and trying
to find light through that," says Legend, 37. "I guess the world got a little
darker, in my mind, after the election."

Darkness (out Friday) is also his most personal record, he adds -- and that's
coming from the man who spun a tender ballad for his wife, model Chrissy Teigen,
into a No. 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart (All of Me, off 2013
album Love in the Future).

Working with Alabama Shakes producer Blake Mills -- and inspired by Stevie
Wonder, Curtis Mayfield and Marvin Gaye -- "I wanted it to be an honest
reflection of who I am as a person, and what I'm thinking about when it comes to
my personal life and what's going on in the world," Legend says.

The Miguel collaboration Overload muses on Legend and Teigen's relationship in
the spotlight and how they deal with online critics. (The lyric "let that blue
bird sing" shrugs off Twitter trolls.) The deceptively sexy Penthouse Floor,
featuring Chance the Rapper, is the album's most socially conscious track, as
the duo takes stock of class and fame over an elastic funk groove.

"The song is talking about that idea of ascension and going to rarefied air, but
also not forgetting what the conditions are in the community that you've come
from," Legend says. "Chance's verse puts an interesting twist on it, because it
(asks), 'Are you even sure you want to be here?' You still feel like an
outsider; you're not treated the same way as the people who are born into
(wealth)."

Then there's Right By You, a heart-tugging rumination on his 7-month-old
daughter, Luna, who also appears in the music video for single Love Me Now.
Written while Teigen was pregnant, the song is "mostly questions: wondering what
our daughter's going to be like, how we'll be as parents, what kind of world
she'll grow up in and how she'll influence that world," Legend says. "It's not
(written) out of anxiety; it's more curiosity and hope."

Outside  music, Legend is a producer on WGN America's slavery drama Underground
and has a small role in Damien Chazelle's musical Oscar contender La La Land
(out Dec. 9). He says  fatherhood has made him more mindful of his schedule and
what projects he takes on, because "you just want to be there as much as you
can."

More personally, being a parent is "a beautiful thing," he says.  "There's
something special about that feeling, knowing that you two as a couple have
created something that will always be a reflection of your love and union."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo Kevin Winter, Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             409 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Three Democratic delusions;
Trends in the popular vote signal trouble for Hillary Clinton's party.

BYLINE: Michael Medved

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 773 words


As Democrats try to regroup after their recent presidential defeat, they tend to
delude themselves on three crucial points.

First, they seek comfort in Hillary Clinton's popular vote margin of more than
two million, marking the sixth election of the last seven in which a Democrat
won more raw votes than his or her Republican rival. But this meaningless
"winning streak" masks a far more serious losing streak: In the last 50 years,
over the course of 13 presidential elections, Barack Obama is the only
Democratic nominee to reach a solid popular vote majority of 51% or more -- and
he did it twice.

Going beyond Lyndon Johnson's landslide against Barry Goldwater in 1964, you'd
need to reach all the way back to Franklin D. Roosevelt to find another
Democratic nominee who connected with an unmistakable majority of his fellow
citizens. In the intervening 72 years since FDR's last race in 1944, Republicans
won decisive, majority victories seven times.

This overview not only undermines Democrats' claims to majority party status,
but argues against the notion that they can blame November's loss on an
especially unpopular candidate. In fact, Hillary Clinton's percentage of the
popular vote (48%) was typical of other recent Democratic candidates like John
Kerry in 2004 (48.3%), Al Gore in 2000 (48.4%) and even her husband, Bill
Clinton, in his successful 1996 re-election bid (49.2%). Hillary actually won a
much larger proportion of the electorate than Bill did in his first presidential
win, where he commanded only 43% against George H. W. Bush and Ross Perot.

In other words, most recent Democrats seem to have a ceiling when it comes to a
percentage of the popular vote. Barack Obama alone broke through that barrier
when he shattered an even more important boundary and inspired unique excitement
as the first non-white major party nominee in U.S. history.

No more Obamas

The second Democratic delusion involves the ability to field another Obama to
generate similar enthusiasm that would assure victory in 2020 and thereafter.
This groundless faith ignores the weak nature of the depleted Democratic bench:
Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden will both be close to 80, while Elizabeth Warren
(71 if she runs in 2020) is a leftist ideologue with limited appeal to the
party's moderate wing.

Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey or former governor Deval Patrick of Massachusetts
might hope to replicate Obama's success in mobilizing massive black turnout, but
a second potential black president stands scant chance of provoking the same
energy as the historic, first time effort of the young Illinois senator who
electrified the landscape in 2008.

Trump is nothing special

The third Democratic mistake in explaining their 2016 collapse could prove the
most fatal to the party's prospects: Ascribing that defeat to President-elect
Trump's unique reality-show appeal and unconventional, nuke-the-establishment
campaign, rather than acknowledging the party's long-term alienation from the
American mainstream.

The vision of Trump as a distinctive, one-off phenomenon ignores the  fact that
conventional, establishment Republicans actually out-performed him in race after
race across the country. In the two most crucial swing states, Florida and Ohio,
Sens. Marco Rubio and Rob Portman both doubled Trump's margin of victory with
their electorates.

Results nearly everywhere showed a Republican wave, not just a magical Donald
Trump appeal. Republicans won at least 21 Senate seats to the Democrats' 12,
cemented control of at least 33 governorships to the Democrats' 15, and captured
at least 240 House sets to 194 for the opposition. These are crushing numbers,
and the GOP has now won House control four elections in a row -- prevailing in
the House of Representatives in 10 of the last 12 election cycles, regardless of
the fate of their presidential nominees.

The Donkey Party, in other words, faces a deeper dilemma than a single
lackluster candidate. Members may try to reassure themselves with polls showing
more Americans identifying as Democrats than as Republicans, but they should
remember that self-described "independents" tend to vote GOP in election after
election, while the recent contest casts serious doubt on reliability of
"scientific" polling.

In the polls that count most -- tallies of actual votes on election day --
Republicans have been winning with unacknowledged consistency. Democrats can
continue to ignore that pattern only at their extreme peril.

Michael Medved, author of The American Miracle: Divine Providence and the Rise
of the Republic, is a syndicated talk radio host and member of the USA TODAY
Board of Contributors.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo JEWEL SAMAD, AFP/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             410 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Trump kicks off campaign-style thank-you tour in Indiana, Ohio;
He touts Carrier deal alongside Pence in Indianapolis

BYLINE: David Jackson, @djusatoday, USA TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 593 words


Presidential candidate Donald Trump loved the raucous political rallies that
marked his campaign -- loved them so much he's doing them again as
president-elect.

After a pit stop in Indianapolis to tout a new jobs agreement with the Carrier
heating and air conditioning company, Trump headed to Cincinnati later Thursday
to open a "Thank You Tour" of swing states that put him over the top in the
Electoral College.

"I am grateful for all of your support," Trump tweeted in promoting the Ohio
event. "THANK YOU!"

In what looks like an unprecedented post-election victory lap for a
president-elect, the Trump team is working on events in other big states he
carried last month, including North Carolina, Iowa, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and
Florida.

Trump and aides called the tour a chance for him to thank the voters who put him
in office, though some analysts questioned whether they are a waste of time that
could otherwise be devoted to the  task of putting together a presidential
administration.

David Cohen, a political science professor at the University of Akron who
specializes in While House staffing, said he finds it "baffling" he would spend
so much time campaigning.

"There's so much to do when you've been elected president," Cohen said. "There
are so many jobs to fill."

Making his first public appearance since the Nov. 8 election, Trump and Vice
President-elect Mike Pence -- also the governor of Indiana -- stopped Thursday
at a Carrier plant in Indianapolis.

After planning to lay off some 1,400 workers and shift some operations to
Mexico, Carrier has  agreed to keep a plant open and retain around 1,000
employees. Details remain hazy, including whether some Carrier employees will
still lose jobs and the nature of the tax breaks the company is getting to stay
in Indiana.

"Companies are not going to leave the United States anymore without
consequences," Trump said after touring the Carrier plant, echoing comments he
made on the campaign trail.

The Cincinnati stop calls for a victory rally that mirror the ones Trump held
during the campaign. In Ohio and state after state, the Republican nominee
denounced the political establishment in general and Democratic rival Hillary
Clinton in particular, while his supporters chanted things like "lock her up!"
and shouted epithets at members of the press.

Previous presidents-elect also have done campaign-style events, but they tended
to be smaller in scope and took place closer to the Inauguration Day of Jan. 20.

In 1993, President-elect Bill Clinton conducted a campaign-style bus tour that
took him from Thomas Jefferson's home at Monticello in Virginia to the Lincoln
Memorial in Washington. Clinton also did some campaigning shortly after the 1992
election, stumping in Georgia during a run-off for a U.S. Senate seat.

Just before his inauguration in 2009, President-elect Barack Obama took a
whistle-stop train ride from New York City to Washington, including a stop in
Wilmington, Del., to pick up Vice President-elect Joe Biden.

Trump has frequently cited his love of well-attended political rallies, and some
analysts described his thank you tour as the inevitable continuation of a
campaign also fueled by social media and 24/7 media.

Martha Joynt Kumar, director of the bipartisan White House Transition Project,
said Trump has good reason for wanting to be with his people.

After days of being "cloistered" in Trump Tower, interviewing job applicants and
making appointments, she said, "he understandably has a need to go out and get
back to what brought him there -- what won him presidency."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             411 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            December 2, 2016 Friday
                                 FIRST EDITION

Companies prove cautious about Trump;
Themes emerging, but most are taking wait-and-see attitude

BYLINE: Matt Krantz, @mattkrantz, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 770 words


After eyeing Donald Trump with caution leading up to the presidential election,
investors quickly hoped for the best after his win. Now companies are starting
to speak up -- cautiously -- about what they see.

Trump has been discussed at recent earnings conference calls or at presentations
with investors at 29 companies in the Standard & Poor's 500, including Dow
Chemical, Medtronic and Deere, according to a USA TODAY analysis of data from
S&P Global Market Intelligence.

Wall Street might have boldly embraced Trump's more bullish platforms such as
lowering corporate taxes, but most companies talking about the incoming
president remain optimistic but also more tentative as specifics are yet to be
seen.

"Far be it for me to prognosticate ... on the elections," said Howard
Ungerleider, chief financial officer at Dow Chemical during a company
presentation Nov.29. "But I mean, if you think about a Republican House, Senate
and Republican-elect presidency as well ... I think the stock market has spoken
at least in a view of lower taxes, potential for repatriation of cash overseas
and potential growth."

While Trump's inauguration is still weeks away, company managements are looking
at how new policies could affect their operations going forward. A few themes
emerging so far include the need to be:

Flexible in planning for the future. Given that investors are still in the dark
about what Trump's specific proposals will be, some companies are looking at
several what ifs. "Internally, we're evaluating different scenarios ... we're
looking at what that impact may or may not be. But we're looking at all kinds of
scenarios, because at the end of the day, we want to be prepared for whatever
does become reality," Tony Huegel, director of investor relations at Deere, told
investors Nov. 23.

Observant of the impact on U.S. economy. Several companies are focused on what
the moves could mean for their own investments in America. The "U.S. economy is
the bright spot in the world right now and continues to be. I mean, we're
investing in the U.S. with our U.S. Gulf Coast assets," Ungerleider says.
Vincent Roche, CEO of electronic chip maker Analog Devices, stated the company
is in a "wait and see" mode until specifics are known, "but maybe on the
margins, it'll be good, at least for the American business environment." And
Robert Shanks, CFO at Ford, said in a special call to investors Nov. 17,
"They're (Trump administration) focused on bringing manufacturing jobs back to
the U.S. They're focused on building a stronger, more competitive
infrastructure, which I think is -- that's great for the country as well."

Positioned to profit regardless of what happens. It's widely believed
infrastructure spending will rise under Trump. That's expected to be a boon for
construction planning companies such as Jacobs Engineering. Jacobs' CEO Steven
Demetriou said Nov. 22 the company already was bullish about construction,
especially transportation projects in Texas, Florida and California, even before
the election and had already invested there.

"We were bullish on our capabilities to grow in transportation regardless of the
election outcome. And so we're pleased to see a lot of the positive hype around
what's going on with the Trump expectations," he says.

Aware policy changes in motion don't necessarily stop. Omar Ishrak, CEO of
medical device maker Medtronic, was careful to not speculate about the future
but was asked Nov. 22 if a repeal of the Affordable Care Act would hurt
business. Ishrak reiterated moves in health care toward better outcomes and
lower costs were already underway "and it doesn't really matter which
administration or in which country you're in." The same goes for new rules on
asset managers pushed by the Department of Justice, which Trump has spoken out
against. "I'm not sure if a lot changes. So these are trends, as I said, that
have been in place for years now, a lot of the things that we've been looking
at," says Loren Michael Starr, chief financial officer at investment firm
Invesco. "I kind of think that once the train's out, it's just a little hard to
stop the train."

Most of the companies indicated they will find opportunity, no matter who is in
the White House. "We're getting into our 52nd year now as a company. So we've
gone through many regime changes across the world and many, many ... American
presidents. So I think let's just wait and see," Roche says.

Says Ungerleider: "We've been around for 119 years. We've been through many
world wars and many elections and many economic cycles, and so we're fully
prepared to go forward the next four years as well."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2016 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


                             412 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                  New Orleans City Business (New Orleans, LA)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

North Shore ad agency played major role in Trump campaign

BYLINE: Lance Traweek, Managing Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 520  words


A Mandeville-based advertising agency played a key role in the election of
president-elect Donald Trump, producing dozens of ads for his unconventional
campaign.

Innovative Advertising LLC first got involved in the campaign through its
managing partner Jay Connaughton, who previously worked with Kellyanne Conway,
Trump's campaign manager.

Connaughton has been involved in campaigns since he was 14 years old, and the
company has been running political ads nationwide for 17 years, he said.
Campaigns have included U.S. Senate races, gubernatorial and congressional
races.

In December of last year, Connaughton and Conway were in Baton Rouge conducting
market research around education reform. At that time, she asked if he was
interested in doing work with a presidential campaign. They would later solidify
the arrangement at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland.

Two weeks later, Connaughton was in New York at Trump Tower pitching advertising
ideas to Trump's top advisers, which included his children and son-in-law.

After getting through five of his 30 slides of the presentation, he was hired
and hit the ground running on the campaign the next day. After being hired right
after Labor Day, Connaughton would not come home to Mandeville for another four
weeks.

He spent most of the time on the campaign trail making TV ads and interviewing
those attending Trump rallies.

"Winning a presidential race in our business is like winning the Super Bowl,"
Connaughton said. "To be one of the hands on the steering wheel is a big deal. "

He and his team produced roughly 30 national ads, including one called
"Listening," and another titled "United. "

Not only did Connaughton create ads but he also provided ad strategy and
messaging insight to the campaign. In August, he voiced the importance to Conway
for Trump to visit South Louisiana after the devastating floods.

"We went back and forth about it for about 24 hours and finally I got a text
message at about 4 p.m.," he said. "She said, 'We're coming. Can you put
together the visit?'" Conway asked Connaughton.

Trump's private plane touched down in Baton Rouge the next morning. Trump
visited the ravaged area and Innovative Advertising was present to document the
trip. The company also followed Trump's visit to Flint, Michigan, which has made
national headlines for its clean drinking water crisis.

Moving forward, Connaughton and his team at Innovative Advertising, which also
has an office in Nashville, will continue to work closely with legislative
issues of importance to a Trump presidency.

"Trump talks about draining the swamp. It's not going to be easy to do. We are
going to need the American people to stand up and stand next to him as he goes
through with these battles," he said. "There are a lot of discussions and plans
being put in place about how we mobilize voters to call their elected officials
and let them know what they think. "

To sign up for free CityBusiness Daily Updates, click here.

http://www.neworleanscitybusiness.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more
from this resource.

Copyright © 2016 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             413 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                      Long Island Business News (New York)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Renaissance Tech co-CEO becomes big Breitbart, Trump funder

BYLINE: Claude Solnik

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 614  words


Robert Mercer, co-CEO of Renaissance Technologies, the hedge fund founded by Jim
Simons, has quietly become a major funder of Breitbart News and Donald Trump's
rise, an often unknown but powerful force in politics, according to numerous
reports.

Jim Simons, the former head of Stony Brook University's mathematics department,
is best known as the founder of Renaissance Technologies and among the
wealthiest Long Islanders.

He has won kudos as a philanthropist who made massive donations to Stony Brook
University, remaining a kind of angel at the university where he once worked.

Meanwhile, Robert Mercer, who became co-CEO of Renaissance once Simons retired,
has been pouring millions of dollars into an effort to remake the Republican
party. And the election of Donald Trump may be his greatest, if only his latest,
success.

Mercer has provided money behind many Tea Party candidates, a political action
committee on behalf of Donald Trump and Breitbart News.

Bloomberg News recently reported that in the latest sign of the Mercers' rise in
politics, Rebekah Mercer, Robert Mercer's daughter, was named to President-Elect
Donald Trump's transition team.

The move comes after Mercer funded and Rebekah Mercer oversaw a pro-Trump
political action committee that poured millions of dollars in ads.

"His fortune has financed think tanks and insurgent candidates, super PACs and
media watchdogs, lobbying groups and grass-roots organizations," Nicholas
Confessore wrote in The New York Times while Donald Trump was running for
president. "Many of them are now connected, one way or another, to Mr. Trump's
presidential bid. "

Confessore described Mercer as "a mathematician and competitive poker player who
spent his early career at I.B.M., joined Renaissance in the 1990s and rose to
become the co-chief executive, earning hundreds of millions of dollars. "

Mercer, who started as a computer programmer, has expressed himself largely by
funding, but the family occasionally has issued statements.

"America is finally fed up and disgusted with its political elite," the Mercers
said in an Oct. 8 statement as they shifted their support to Donald Trump.
"Trump is channeling this disgust and those among the political elite who quake
before the boom-box of media blather. "

Mercer started out funding Republican candidates who rose from within the party
rather than as a kind of resistance to the establishment.

He funded Mitt Romney's presidential run 2012, before pouring $13.5 million into
Ted Cruz's primary run.

After Cruz bowed out, Mercer founded and funded pro-Trump political action
committee "Make America No. 1" which Kellyanne Conway helped lead, before she
took a key role as Trump's campaign manager.

Mercer also funded the book "Clinton Cash" that looked into the Clintons'
conflicts of interest, before Rebekah Mercer became  co-executive producer of
the hour-long documentary "Clinton Cash. "

The Mercers have campaigned not simply for candidates, but vigorously against
Hillary Clinton who they described as someone who "would repeal both the First
and Second Amendments of the Bill of Rights, a nominee who would remake the
Supreme Court in her own image. "

In addition to supporting candidates, Robert Mercer reportedly invested $10
million in Breitbart News, when the firm was struggling.

The Mercers also have invested in Cambridge Analytica, a data analytics company
that seeks to target voters based on personality profiles.

The Trump campaign hired Cambridge Analytica after the Mercers began supporting
their campaign, according to Bloomberg.

http://www.libn.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

Copyright © 2016 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             414 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Kamenetz: Baltimore County police will not participate in deportation of
students

BYLINE: Bryan P. Sears

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 718  words


Baltimore County police will not participate in any efforts to identify
immigrants who are college students living in the country illegally, according
to Democratic County Executive Kevin Kamenetz.

Kamenetz, in a letter to college and university leaders and presidents and
members of the state's congressional and U.S. Senate delegation, also called on
Gov. Larry Hogan to make a similar commitment. The letter follows the election
of Republican President-elect Donald Trump, who during the campaign made pledges
to deport millions of immigrants he said were living in the country illegally.

"I am urging members of Maryland's congressional delegation and our State
leaders to oppose any effort by incoming President Trump to rescind the DACA
program," Kamenetz wrote in his letter.  "I have also advised Chief (Jim)
Johnson that the Baltimore County Police Department should not participate in
any effort to identify otherwise law-abiding students from our college campuses
that would  subject them to deportation by federal authorities. This letter is
also copied to Governor (Larry) Hogan seeking his support in this effort as
well. "

Spokesmen for Hogan did not return calls seeking comment.

Kamenetz, who is in his last term as county executive, is considered a likely
challenger to Hogan, a first-term Republican, in the 2018 election.

Leaders of institutions within the University System of Maryland, including the
University of Maryland, College Park, Baltimore and Baltimore County, and Towson
University as well as Johns Hopkins University have called on the incoming Trump
administration to continue and expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals
program, under which more than 700,000 young people who were brought to the U.S.
illegally as children have registered with the federal government in exchange
for temporary relief from the possibility of deportation and a two-year
renewable work permit.

Among the more than 335 university officials who signed the petition were Robert
Caret, chancellor of the University System of Maryland.

University leaders across the country also have said they would take steps to
protect undocumented students from deportation under a Trump administration.

Trump said during the campaign he would halt the DACA program, but his comments
on immigration since the election have focused largely on deporting immigrants
who have criminal records.

"These students were children when they arrived in this country," Kamenetz said
in a statement. "They were raised here and have no identification with their
native country. They should be allowed to continue with their education and
pursue a path to citizenship, without police harassment. "

The text of the Kamenetz's letter:

Dear Dr. Bowen, Dr. Caret, Dr. Hrabowski, Dr. Kurtinitis, Dr. Manning, and Dr.
Schatzel,

As the County Executive of a county that is home to five colleges and
universities, I strongly support your efforts to protect undocumented students
from deportation in the wake of the recent presidential election.

It is imperative that our nation's leaders protect the Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program instituted by President Obama in 2012,
allowing students to pursue their education without fear.

I am urging members of Maryland's congressional delegation and our State leaders
to oppose any effort by incoming President Trump to rescind the DACA program.
I have also advised Chief Johnson that the Baltimore County Police Department
should not participate in any effort to identify otherwise law-abiding students
from our college campuses that would  subject them to deportation by federal
authorities. This letter is also copied to Governor Hogan seeking his support in
this effort as well.

Thank you for taking all necessary steps to make your students feel safe and
secure.

Very truly yours,

Baltimore County Executive

C:        Honorable Lawrence J. Hogan, Jr.

Honorable Barbara Mikulski

Honorable Ben Cardin

Honorable Andy Harris

Honorable Dutch Ruppersberger

Honorable John Sarbanes

Honorable Donna Edwards

Honorable Steny Hoyer

Honorable John Delaney

Honorable Elijah Cummings

Honorable Chris Van Hollen

Honorable Mike Miller

Honorable Mike Busch

http://www.mddailyrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

Copyright © 2016 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: General news

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Dolan Media Newswires
                              All Rights Reserved


                             415 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Democrats call GOP action 'cynical'

BYLINE: Tamar Hallerman; Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 644 words



HIGHLIGHT: Move to roll back ban on earmarks draws criticism.


WASHINGTON -- Some Democrats on Capitol Hill called their Republican colleagues'
near-approval of a plan to roll back a 5-year-old ban on special project
earmarks a "cynical move" right after the presidential election.

While many said they supported the idea, some did not hesitate to scold
Republicans for being insincere barely a week after Donald Trump was elected on
a pledge to root out Washington cronyism.

"To me, it's just a cynical display of politics as usual," said U.S. Rep. Hank
Johnson, D-Lithonia.

Earmarks are "an issue that needs to be discussed," he said, "but for the
Republicans to try to pass it under the cover of a lame-duck session shows just
how cynical they were in using it as a campaign issue."

U.S. Sen. Claire McCaskill of Missouri, a former state auditor and one of the
Democrats' most prominent earmark foes, said the behind-the-scenes action "is
exactly what Americans are mad about."

The reaction came less than 24 hours after Speaker Paul Ryan pumped the brakes
on a proposal that would have brought back earmarks after GOP lawmakers appeared
on the verge of approving it during a closed-door meeting.

The Wisconsin Republican, who has supported the ban, promised to have a public
vetting of the issue in the new year.

"We're going to be spending the first quarter of 2017 figuring out just how we
can make sure we can restore the power, the purse, to the legislative branch to
hold the unelected branch of government accountable," Ryan said Thursday.

Supporters of lifting the ban said that with the right transparency measures in
place it would underscore the GOP's pledge to move power back to Congress from
an "overreaching" executive branch, without costing additional money.

"Part of draining the swamp up here is getting back to the constitutional role
of government," said U.S. Rep. Doug Collins, R-Gainesville. "Part of draining
the swamp is making sure that bureaucrats and unelected officials are not
running the show like they are under the Obama administration."

An earmark is money in a federal funding bill that lawmakers have chosen to set
aside for a specific project. Under the current ban, members of Congress can no
longer dictate which individual endeavors the government should fund. They
instead can only appropriate pots of money for more general purposes, leaving it
to federal agencies to determine which projects should get the funding.

Fiscal conservatives are rallying against the effort to roll back the ban,
framing it as a rebuke of the principles that delivered Trump to the White
House.

The earmark ban went into effect in 2011, shortly after Republicans retook
control of the House on the tea party wave. Then-Speaker John Boehner had
campaigned on the issue, capitalizing off pent-up frustration following years of
scandals involving such federal spending and epitomized by the infamous $400
million "bridge to nowhere" in Alaska.

These days, many lawmakers have complained that the ban has made the world of
government spending more opaque and inefficient. Bridges and dams still need to
get built and scientific research conducted at universities, many say, and who
knows the needs of a district better than its member of Congress?

Many Democrats on Thursday indicated they were supportive of bringing the
practice back.

"I don't see why we give it all to the administration to make those decisions,"
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said.

Atlanta Democratic U.S. Rep. John Lewis said before the practice was barred in
2011, he was able to more easily secure federal funding for MARTA and highway
improvement projects.

"I think different places suffered because we do not have the ability to have a
line item to say 'this must be used for the improvement of metro Atlanta
transportation system,' " he said.

But Lewis said Congress also needs to discuss safeguards to prevent unfettered
pork barrel spending.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             416 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                  Main Edition

COBB COUNTY VOTE;
Clinton's Cobb win surprises GOP

BYLINE: Greg Bluestein; Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1205 words



HIGHLIGHT: Republican stronghold flips; party leaders vow change won't last.


Near the end of a post-election gathering in the heart of Marietta, Georgia tea
party leader J.D. Van Brink asked whether the three dozen people assembled to
talk about Donald Trump's stunning victory missed the other big upset: Cobb
County turned blue.

"No way," two voices belted in unison. "It must be voter fraud," another
quipped. As the din quieted, one activist voiced the concern that jittery Cobb
Republicans -- and jubilant county Democrats -- in this GOP stronghold have been
asking themselves since last week's stunning election.

"Is this the result of changing demographics? Or is this just an anomaly?"

Trump won a 5-point victory over Democrat Hillary Clinton in Georgia last week
by running up huge margins in rural and exurban Georgia. But he lost every core
metro Atlanta county to Clinton, giving Democrats a silver lining in an
otherwise rough night.

The rising minority populations in Gwinnett and Henry counties made them ripe
targets for a Democratic takeover. But even the most optimistic Democrat didn't
expect Cobb County, long the crimson-red lifeblood of the Georgia Republican
Party, to flip this cycle.

Cobb hadn't voted for a Democrat in a presidential race since Georgia's own
Jimmy Carter swept the county in 1976 -- and even he was defeated in Cobb four
years later. It was the launching pad for the political careers of Newt
Gingrich, Sam Olens and Johnny Isakson.And it's long been one of the most
reliable sources in Georgia for GOP cash, votes and volunteers.

"I didn't see it coming at all," said Kennesaw Councilwoman Yvette Daniel, who
considers herself the only Democrat on the Cobb city's nonpartisan council. "But
what this shows is people in Cobb County are tired of being left behind."

Jerry Kotyuk, a Marietta tea party activist, put it a different way: "The
demographics are changing. We are getting a lot more diverse. But nobody
expected this."

A Cobb collapse? In a parallel universe, Clinton's campaign would be celebrating
Cobb as a blueprint for her victory. She hoped to defeat Trump by relying on an
emerging coalition of younger and diverse voters, coupled with suburban
college-educated conservatives skeptical of Trump.

That's exactly the mix that helped her flip the county, where she outpolled
Trump by about 6,800 votes -- enough for a 2-point win. Republican Mitt Romney
won the same county by 12 points in 2012.

Cobb GOP Chairwoman Rose Wing and other local party leaders cast it as a
one-off, driven by Trump's high unfavorable ratings, crude comments about women
and a history of tepid support in the county, where his anti-establishment
campaign didn't play as well in a bastion of the state's GOP establishment.

After all, Florida U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio won Cobb in Georgia's March GOP
presidential primary, and Trump's campaign seemed to acknowledge its problems in
the county when it dispatched Ivanka Trump to a pair of Cobb events weeks before
the vote.

"As our Republican leaders implement common-sense, conservative solutions to get
our nation back on track, we look forward to running on that record in four
years," said Cobb GOP Vice Chairman Justin Tomczak, who pointed to down-ticket
wins in the county.

Indeed, Isakson earned nearly 53 percent of the vote in Cobb in his race against
Democrat Jim Barksdale. Cobb Republicans swept every countywide office, running
unopposed in most contests. And each of the GOP legislators held his or her
ground. But their margins of victory point to longer-term problems.

Republican state Sen. Hunter Hill held on to his seat despite getting shellacked
in the Cobb part of his district. State Rep. Rich Golick's 19-point win over a
Democrat two years ago melted to a 6-point win over the same opponent this year.
And state Rep.Sam Teasley's margin of victory shrank from 25 points to 14 in the
past two years.

"We need to be reaching out not only to the people who traditionally agree with
us, but also those not inclined to support Republicans," said Teasley of
Marietta. "I don't think Republicans have to compromise what they believe in to
show we are concerned with the issues that they are concerned about."

The shifting demographics are more cause for concern for Cobb Republicans. In
2000, nearly three in four of Cobb's residents were white. That number shrank to
64 percent in 2015. More than one-quarter of the county's residents are black,
and about 13 percent of the population is Hispanic.

A Democratic Cobb would change the political landscape in Georgia.The county is
the fourth-most-populous in Georgia and one of the most affluent. If Republicans
lose their grasp of Cobb, it could hobble the party in statewide elections in
2018 and the next presidential vote in 2020.

"If we lose Cobb, it becomes much harder for Republicans to win statewide," said
Jason Shepherd, a longtime GOP operative who worked for Gingrich. "You look down
the road two years from now, and for the first time in years, Republicans are on
the defensive in places like Cobb. And it's going to be harder in midterm
elections to keep up the momentum."

Shepherd ran for county Republican chairman in 2015 and is considering another
bid. He said last week's results exposed the local GOP chapter's "bunker
mentality" that's averse to newcomers and too willing to rest on its laurels.

Friendly fire Confidence was on display at a Cobb GOP breakfast three days
before the election, where activists talked matter-of-factly about mobilizing
for the vote. Residents stocked up on signs for Isakson and U.S. Rep. Barry
Loudermilk, who handily won a second term, but there was little mention of
Trump.

"Republicans can agree to disagree," Wing told the few dozen attendees,
referring to skepticism of the GOP nominee. "As Ronald Reagan says, 80 percent
of my friend doesn't make you my enemy."

The hand-wringing began hours after the election. Sheriff Neil Warren, whose
margin of victory also narrowed from 2012, said he was "very sad and
disappointed" that Trump lost Cobb. Others cast the blame on Wing and activists
who supported Texas U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz in Georgia's presidential primary.

Democrats, meanwhile, hope to ensure the victory is not fleeting. Coakley
Pendergrass, a 72-year-old former New York police officer, devotes an increasing
chunk of his time trying to recruit candidates for low-level offices, from city
council races to state legislative contests.

"I truly believe that Cobb County is on the verge of flipping down the ticket,
and we're working on it now. It's about putting people in the right place,"
Pendergrass said. "Look at it as a sports analogy: You're playing tennis and you
take what your opponent gives you. This is what they gave us this cycle."

Republicans promise to come roaring back.Tomczak said the party is looking for
new ways to expand in the era of Trump.And Van Brink, the tea party leader, said
he's confident the pendulum will swing the GOP's way again by doubling down on
its conservative principles.

"I have more in common with a black female entrepreneur than a white male
socialist," said Van Brink, who is white. "We don't believe that demographics is
destiny. And if we can translate our conservative values and principles to
public policies, we'll be fine."

Staffwriter Meris Lutz contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             417 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

Millennials, now's the time to take a stand

BYLINE: Mary-Pat Hector; Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28A

LENGTH: 547 words


While watching the results of the presidential election with my fellow Spelman
College students, there were many tears. Many of us voted, but a faction told us
they didn't vote out of protest, saying they were fed up with both parties and
the establishment in general. As a civil rights activist, I searched for words
to inspire them after it was clear that Donald Trump won the electoral vote, but
I was also battling my own rage that anyone wouldn't exercise their right to
vote.

For the past few months, as the national youth director of the National Action
Network, I've been urging young people in Atlanta and across the country to
vote, regardless of party favorites or preferred candidate. It wasn't easy. Many
millennials, particularly African Americans, feel disconnected to government and
distrustful of those in power. The issues these voters cared about most --
reforming law enforcement practices, creating affordable education and improving
race relations -- were missing from national debates and media coverage.

This disengagement is not new. Young people have pushed away from the political
process for decades. In 2012, roughly half of all eligible people ages 18-29
voted, about the same as 2008. Boosting that number means translating political
engagement on social media into action on the streets and at the polls.

Since the last election, there have been many social media activists but not
enough people on the streets, such as at peaceful demonstrations or even in
meetings with elected officials. Strong campaigns surfaced on social media, such
as #BlackWomenVote and #RockTheVote, but retweeting isn't the same as voting. We
need to take our participation to a higher level.

We must organize and stand behind civil rights organizations more than ever
before. We have to reach across party lines to make sure we have a seat at the
table. We are all Americans and need to figure out how to come together.

We need to look at how the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. rallied people. We can't
be divisive. That's why civil rights organizations matter. There are goals and
an agenda -- not anger and hate. Over the next four years, NAN will continue to
fight for an end to police violence, a strong economy and high-quality schools.
Just a day after the election, I held a series of calls with young people to
mobilize them around civil rights issues. On Inauguration Day, we plan to hand
the new president a list of the changes we need to see most.

A lot of young people said they were upset because Bernie Sanders lost the
Democratic primary, but many of them didn't even vote in the primary. Research
shows that the overall Democratic turnout was 14 percent, less than in 2008. If
millennials had taken his campaign and the race more seriously, then Hillary
Clinton might not have been the nominee.

It's time to get serious about our future. More than 69 million millennials are
eligible to vote, about the same number as Baby Boomers. Let's be proactive and
not wait for another tragedy before we rally for change. There is a time to sit
and a time to stand. It's time to stand.

Mary-Pat Hector is a freshman at Spelman College and the national youth director
for civil rights group National Action Network. This was the first time she was
eligible to vote for president.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             418 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

Big skepticism about Trump's motives lingers

BYLINE: Lee Raudonis; Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28A

LENGTH: 595 words


On the day after the election, while many worldwide were still in shock and
disbelief, pundits did their best to portray the aftermath as being similar to
all previous modern American presidential elections. Politicians and
personalities praised the peaceful transfer of power that would inevitably take
place, and they commended President-elect Donald Trump's call for unity as if
it, along with the concession speech by Hillary Clinton and unifying comments by
President Barack Obama, were all that was necessary to put the divisions and
bitterness of the long campaign behind us.

Later that night, thousands of disillusioned citizens took to the streets
throughout America to proclaim that they did not consider Donald Trump to be
their president. They let it be known that this election was not like previous
elections and that a few speeches about unity cannot miraculously accomplish
that end.

It is one thing to expect Americans to accept the fairness of the electoral
process. In spite of Trump's repeated claims that the entire election system was
"rigged," I suspect that the vast majority of Americans do recognize its
legitimacy. It is another thing entirely to expect that all Americans will
simply accept Trump's words that he wants to be "president for all the people."

We are now in the Trump era, so let's "tell it like it is." Donald Trump ran the
nastiest, dirtiest, meanest, least factually honest campaign for president in
the history of our country. He appealed to the basest instincts of people,
encouraged violence and regularly demeaned entire groups of citizens. Is it any
wonder that Latinos, Muslims and many other citizens find his calls for unity
unbelievable, and in fact laughable?

Trump's entire campaign was built on the "Big Lie" theory that you can tell lies
frequently and convincingly enough to make people think they are true. Tell
people often enough that "Crooked" Hillary Clinton is guilty of violating the
law, and soon they are shouting "lock her up" and even hanging her in effigy --
in spite of the fact that no charges have ever been filed against her. Tell
people regularly that the electoral system is rigged, and they come to accept
that as fact, although incidences of widespread election irregularities have
been almost nonexistent for decades.

The Toronto Star's Washington Bureau chief followed Trump's campaign for several
weeks fact-checking thousands of his statements. He found hundreds of
falsehoods. Not a few; not a few dozen, but more than 400 -- an average of 20
per day. Do you understand why people doubt Trump's sincerity when he says
almost anything?

Yes, Donald Trump legitimately won the race to become our 45th president, but he
did it in a way that cannot be forgotten simply because he read a statement
calling for unity. Real life has no delete button, so his previous statements
mocking a disabled reporter, calling for his supporters to "knock the hell" out
of a protester, and encouraging chants of "lock her up" aimed at Secretary
Clinton cannot be forgotten as if never said.

It will take a lot more than a brief unity speech to assuage people's fears
about a Trump presidency. He will still be "The Donald," a psychologically
damaged human being who has shown throughout his entire life that he will do and
say anything to make himself richer and more famous.

Donald Trump won the presidency, but he has a long way to go to earn the trust
of all Americans. A few hopeful words cannot delete all of the previous hurtful
ones.

Lee Raudonis is a former executive director of the Georgia Republican Party.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             419 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                  Main Edition

IN BRIEF

BYLINE: Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 504 words


The maker of a popular hummus is voluntarily recalling some of its products over
listeria concerns.

Sabra Dipping Co. is recalling certain hummus items made before Nov. 8,
according to its website.

Listeria was identified at its manufacturing facility but not in tested finished
product, the company said. Listeria can cause serious and sometimes fatal
infections in young children, frail or elderly people, and others with weakened
immune systems.

Consumers with any product with a "Best Before" date up through Jan. 23, 2017,
are urged to discard it, Sabra said. For more information, call Sabra at
866-265-6761 or go to http://www.sabrahummusrecall.com/. A full list of recalled
items is on the company'swebsiteorontheFDA's website, www.fda.gov.

GERMANY

Merkel will seek 4th term as chancellor

Angela Merkel, who has steered Germany through several global crises as its
first female leader, said Sunday she will seek a fourth term as chancellor in
elections next year, when she could find herself up against the anti-immigrant
populist tide that has swept both Europe and the U.S. "I literally thought about
this decision endlessly ... but I am ready to run for office again," Merkel told
reporters after meeting with high-ranking members of her center-right party. "I
want to serve Germany." Repeatedly named "The World's Most Powerful Woman" by
Forbes magazine, the 62-year-old Merkel has been cast by some as the last
powerful defender of liberal values in the West following Donald Trump's
election as the next U.S. president.

ISRAEL

Netanyahu under renewed scrutiny

Dogged for decades by scandals ranging from how family trips were funded to
enormous ice cream bills, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel is again
under scrutiny, this time over a billion-dollar deal with Germany for the
acquisition of three new submarines. Political opponents are calling for an
inquiry into what they view as the murky circumstances surrounding the framework
agreement reached with Germany over the last year, apparently at Netanyahu's
urging, to buy the vessels. Netanyahu, one of Israel's longest serving prime
ministers who is serving a fourth term in office, faces allegations of a
possible conflict of interest within his inner circle in making the deal. The
issue came to light when Israel's Channel 10 News reported last week that
Netanyahu's personal lawyer also represents the Israeli agent of the German
shipyard that builds the submarines, ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems. Both Netanyahu
and the lawyer, David Shimron, have denied any impropriety.

PERU

Summit closes with call for free trade

Leaders of 21 Asia-Pacific nations ended their annual summit Sunday with a call
to resist protectionism amid signs of increased free-trade skepticism,
highlighted by the victory of Donald Trump in the U.S. presidential election.
The Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum closed with a joint pledge to work
toward a sweeping new free trade agreement that would include all 21 members as
a path "sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             420 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

Q&A on the News

BYLINE: Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 277 words


Q: There have been several articles about the cost of Obamacare premiums going
up. I have also read that nearly 75 percent of people pay less than $100 a month
in premiums. Is this true? --Margaret Thomson, Marietta

A: About 77 percent of people enrolled in the Health Insurance Marketplace can
find a plan for less than $100 a month in premiums, after 2017 tax credits,
according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

"Thanks to financial assistance, most marketplace consumers this year will find
plan options with premiums between $50 and $100 per month," HHS secretary Sylvia
M. Burwell said in a release last month.

In the 38 states, including Georgia, using the federal exchange on
Healthcare.gov, the cost of premiums for midlevel plans will rise 25 percent on
average in 2017. The premiums rose 7.2 percent last year, CNN.com reported.

Prices vary across states. Arizona's benchmark average premium will rise 116
percent while Indiana's will fall 3 percent, CNN.com reported.

The open enrollment period started Nov. 1. Q: Why have we not been seeing John
Roberts covering the news for Fox? What has happened to him? -- Yolanda T.
Rossi, Roswell

A: Roberts, Fox News' senior national correspondent, covered the Republican
angle of the presidential race, including traveling with the Trump campaign,
until the election on Nov. 8.

Roberts didn't see his wife -- CNN's Kyra Phillips -- for six weeks and his
5-year-old twins for a month, he said in an interview with Adweek.

Andy Johnston with Fast Copy News Service wrote this column; Will Robinson
contributed. Do you have a question? We'll try to get the answer. Call
404-222-2002 or email q&a@ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             421 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

It's official: Trump won Georgia in record turnout

BYLINE: Kristina Torres; Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 265 words



HIGHLIGHT: Republican took 51% of votes while Clinton got 46%.


Georgia certified its presidential election results Tuesday, cementing
President-elect Donald Trump's Peach State win.

With more than 4.1 million votes cast, the state broke records with its turnout,
which surpassed 76 percent among the state's 5.4 million active registered
voters, Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp said.

Counting all voters on the state's rolls who were eligible to cast a ballot this
fall, some 6.6 million residents, the turnout rate was 63 percent.

Kemp credited voter enthusiasm that started with the state's March 1
presidential primary, dubbed the SEC primary as Kemp helped organize an effort
by Southern states to give the region more of a voice in the presidential
election process. He also touted the increasing number of ways voters could
access the state's voter registration and information systems, which included
online voter registration and a pilot program this year allowing residents to
register via text.

"I am thrilled to see Georgians' enthusiasm this cycle," Kemp said in a
statement. "Voters turned out in record numbers for the SEC primary, and that
trend has continued all year long."

According to the now-official results, Trump won with 51 percent of votes cast.
Democratic hopeful Hillary Clinton got 46 percent, and Libertarian presidential
nominee Gary Johnson got 3 percent.

With certification of the election results now final, any candidate for state
office who wants to request a recount has two business days to notify Kemp's
office of that request.

(Box)

'I am thrilled to see Georgians' enthusiasm this cycle.'

Brian Kemp

Ga. secretary of state

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             422 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

READERS WRITE

BYLINE: Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 296 words


Electoral College serves U.S.well

I beg to differ with columnist Jay Bookman's view that our nation's founders had
no idea of the potential consequences the Electoral College could and would play
in electing our president ( "Sifting Through the Post-Election Debris,"Opinion,
Nov. 14).

They knew precisely its impact, as it was designed to protect the votes of
citizens of less-populated states. Looking at the final electoral map, it's
obvious that a handful of populous states can easily overwhelm the vast majority
of this country. Our nation's founders served us well.

WAYNE KERR,

STOCKBRIDGE

Comey cost Clinton the election

What a classy, highly intelligent lady is Hillary Clinton. She is completely on
target as to what caused her defeat -- FBI Director James Comey's two letters in
the last few days of the presidential campaign when her momentum was climbing
and Donald Trump's was deteriorating.

This move by James Comey, which changed the course and outcome of this election,
is reflective of a style of old white men, in both the FBI and the Republican
Party's leadership, to keep a woman from becoming America's first
Commander-in-Chief.

This election changes the course of the nation's trajectory and this world's
trajectory. The direction that Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton were taking our
nation, and world, was based upon a spiritual foundation. I see nothing but
self-interest for America and for himself in Donald Trump's vision, if he even
has a vision, for humankind beyond self-interest and division, not communion,
between all the people on this planet.

ELIZABETH HARTLEY

FILLIAT, ALPHARETTA

(Box)

The AJC is dedicated to continually bringing you the best in opinion columns and
guest articles on issues that matter to you. Find the latest at
www.myajc.com/s/opinion/

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             423 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

Costly recount effort is hopeless

BYLINE: George Mathis News to Me; Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 475 words


Counting money never made anyone rich.

Recounting votes never made anyone president.

Yet, Green Party candidate Jill Stein, who has no chance of winning anything, is
raising millions for recounts in Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Michigan and possibly
other states.

Is it a waste of time and money?

Any election this important deserves some sort of routine audit, but it seems
mathematically impossible to overturn the results no matter how much money is
thrown at it.

Recounts are as much a part of the political landscape as ugly yard signs, but
usually they are conducted after close elections.

Was this one close?

Marc Elias, general counsel for the Hillary Clinton campaign, said, "The number
of votes separating Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in the closest of these
states--Michigan--well exceeds the largest margin ever overcome in a recount."

He's right.

The biggest vote swing in any presidential election recount occurred in Florida
in the 2000 race for president. Thanks to infamous "hanging chads" Democrat Al
Gore was awarded another 1,247 votes, but still lost the critical state by 537
votes to Republican George W. Bush.

The average statewide recount, according to data from FairVote, a nonpartisan
group that researches elections, yields a mere 282 votes.

In Georgia, election officials say they can't recall a statewide recount
overturning an election. In 2014, Republican candidate for Georgia schools
superintendent Mike Buck asked for a recount after losing in the primary to
Richard Woods by only 713 votes. After a recount he lost by 700 votes.

Ironically, Trump might be the one asking for a recount if Stein had sat this
election out. It's likely the vast majority of the 50,000 votes
shegotinMichiganwouldhavegone to Clinton and overcome Trump's slim lead of
10,000. In Wisconsin, Clinton lost by 27,000 votes and Stein received 31,000
votes.

The results in all three states would have to be overturned for Clinton to
become president.That's not going to happen. Trump won Pennsylvania by 70,000
votes and the recount deadline has passed.

Stein suggests hackers affected the election. "When evidence emerged the system
was being hacked all over the place, my conviction only strengthened that this
was something we have to do," she said in the Guardian.

Yet, a traditional recount wouldn't discover hacking efforts.

Stein says she's raised at least $6.5 million for recounts, which is $3 million
more than donors contributed to her campaign.

Why are people contributing so much cash to an effort that seems less likely to
pay off than a Power-ball ticket?

Politicians, even those that get just 1 percent of the vote, love staying in the
spotlight as much as they love counting your money.

(Box)

READ MORE

AJC staffer George Mathis has been finding interesting nuggets of news since
1999. His'News to Me'column can be found at newstome.blog. ajc.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             424 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

Q&A on the News

BYLINE: Andy Johnston; For the AJC, Staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 288 words


Q: Could you provide the final popular vote totals for the presidential
election, including for the minor candidates? Also, could you provide the final
Electoral College count? I haven't seen either in recent days. - Donald
Pattillo, Marietta

A: Hillary Clinton had 64.8 million votes (48.2 percent) to Donald Trump's 62.5
million votes (46.4 percent) through Nov. 27, according to the Cook Political
Report.

The report is a "nonparti- san newsletter that analyzes elections and
campaigns," it states on its website (cookpolitical.com).

Other candidates had received 7.3 million votes (5.4 percent).

Gary Johnson (Libertar- ian) had 4.4 million votes, Jill Stein (Green) had 1.4
million and Evan McMullin (Indepen- dent) had about 569,000, according to Dave
Leip'sAtlas of U.S. Presidential Elections (uselectionatlas.org).

Trump officially was declared the winner in Web-

on Monday to give him 306 electoral votes to Clinton's 232, The Associated Press
reported.

Stein is demanding recounts in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania.

Q: Why was it not a violation of the federal anti-nepotism law when John Kennedy
nominated his brother Robert for attorney general? --Ben Bowen, Atlanta

A: The law was passed in 1967, six years after President John F. Kennedy
appointed his brother Robert to the post of attorney general.

President Lyndon B. Johnson, it's been reported, pushed for the statute, which
was part of the Postal Revenue and Federal Salary Act of 1967, because he
disliked Robert Kennedy. It became known as the "Bobby Kennedy Law," Time wrote.

Andy Johnston with Fast Copy News Service wrote this column. Do you have a
question? We'll try to get the answer. Call 404-222-2002 or email q&a@ajc.com
(include name, phone and city).

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             425 of 1405 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                  Main Edition

The scramble to fill Price's seat begins

BYLINE: Greg Bluestein; Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1223 words



HIGHLIGHT: Prominent attorney, wealthy newcomers, legislators consider bid.


President-elect Donald Trump's decision to tap U.S.Rep.Tom Price as his health
and human services secretary has triggered a scramble to represent his solidly
conservative suburban Atlanta district.

At least six state legislators, a former statewide officeholder, a former state
senator, a prominent immigration attorney, an influential Trump backer and
several wealthy political newcomers are considering a bid to replace the
six-term Roswell Republican.

Some analysts are predicting the race to represent the 6th District, an affluent
swath of the Atlanta suburbs that stretches from north DeKalb and Fulton
counties to east Cobb County, to be one of the most crowded and expensive
special election contests in Georgia history.

"Special elections are the most unpredictable events. You don't know who the
electorate is, and it's extremely difficult to get people to show up," said
Brian Robinson, a Republican strategist and former aide to Gov. Nathan Deal.
"And there's no front-runner. In a field this big, you have no front-runner
until someone writes a giant check."

The district's demographics also pose a challenge for the dozen or so potential
Republican candidates eyeing the race.

Although Price won his six terms with relative ease, many of the Republicans in
the establishment-friendly north Atlanta suburbs spurned Trump. U.S. Sen. Marco
Rubio of Florida won the district in the GOP presidential primary in March, and
Trump eked out a razor-thin victory there in November despite carrying the state
by 5 percentage points.

"It's an economically conservative, socially libertarian district on the main,"
said Sandy Springs Mayor Rusty Paul, a former head of the Georgia GOP. "It's
conservative, but it's more of a centrist conservatism. They want fewer
regulations and fiscal responsibility. But they want the least, the lost and the
left behind not to be least and lost and the left behind."

Republicans are favored to hold the seat, but Democrats vow to field a promising
recruit. Several high-pro-file Democrats live in the district, including state
Rep. Scott Holcomb, a U.S. Army veteran and attorney, and state Rep. Taylor
Bennett, a onetime Georgia Tech quarterback who narrowly lost a re-election bid
this month.

When Holcomb was asked why he thinks his party might have a shot at the open
seat, he responded with one word: "Trump."

"It's a tough race, but the right candidate could raise all the money
necessary," he elaborated. "The district is not looking for a rubber stamp for
Trump."

The earliest the election could be held is in February, as Price is not likely
to resign until he's confirmed by the U.S. Senate. His confirmation vote is
expected in late January, and state law requires the governor to call for a
special election at least 30 days after the vacancy opens. If nobody wins a
majority of that vote-- which is nearly a certainty in a crowded race--then a
runoff would be held between the top two finishers.

The jockeying for Price's seat will color a legislative session already expected
to be roiled by battles over "religious liberty" legislation, Second Amendment
rights, immigration crackdowns and sweeping health care changes. Sitting
lawmakers would have to resign to qualify, but they'd use their platform to push
red-meat legislation and rail against their opponents.

State Sen. Brandon Beach, one of three GOP senators interested in the seat, said
it's hard not to consider a run for a seat that typically opens once every
decade or so.

"This just happened last night, but I'd be foolish not to look at the
opportunity," said Beach, an Alpharetta Republican who heads the North Fulton
Chamber of Commerce. "But I'm only interested right now in serving Georgians and
making sure we have policy that's pro-business, less regulations and less
taxes."

A quartet of women are also among the potential contenders for the seat. One of
them could make history as the first Republican congresswoman from Georgia.

Former Secretary of State Karen Handel and state Rep. Betty Price, Tom Price's
wife, have tremendous name recognition in the district. And state Rep. Jan Jones
is the highest-ranking woman in Georgia GOP politics as the No. 2 in the House
chamber. Former Johns Creek Councilwoman Kelly Stewart is also scouting the
race.

"Steve and I are humbled by the outpouring of encouragement and we are seriously
considering how to best serve the constituents of Georgia's 6th District,"
Handel said in a statement.

Several political newcomers could jump in. Charles Kuck, a prominent
immigrationattorney, saidhewasconsideringabid.SoisBruceLeVell, a Dunwoody
jeweler who headedTrump'sdiversitycoalition.He said he would claim Trump's
"drain the swamp" mantra and run as a swashbuckling reformer should he get in
the race.

And former state Sen. Dan Moody has told several rivals and other political
figures that he's willing to dig deep into his own pockets to run for the open
seat.

Just as important is the right message and tone for a district uneasy with Trump
that seems unlikely to elect a hard-right conservative. Paul, the Sandy Springs
mayor, said he's hoping voters choose a young conservative with a penchant for
working across party lines and building consensus.

"You've got to demonstrate you know how to work inside a legislative body to
accomplish things, to build coalitions to get things done," Paul said. "Lone
wolves need not apply."

(Box)

ABOUT TOM PRICE Age:62

Born: Lansing, Michigan Home: Roswell

Career: Worked for nearly 20 years as an orthopedic surgeon

Political career: Served four terms in the Georgia Senate, elected to Congress
in 2004 Family: Wife, state Rep. Betty Price, R-Roswell, and a son

THE 6TH

CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT

Here's a demographic breakdown of U.S.Rep. Tom Price's district, which stretches
from north DeKalb and Fulton counties to east Cobb County:

70 percent white 13 percent black 11 percent Asian 6 percent Other Median
household income: $83,844 15 percent of households make $200,000 or more 59.5
percent ofresidents have a bachelor's degree orhigher

Source: U.S.Census Bureau

A LOOK AT THE REPUBLICAN CONTENDERS WHO COULD JUMP IN THE RACE

State Sen.John Albers:

Elected in 2010,the Roswell telecom executive and volunteer firefighter is a
skeptic of MARTA's expansion and a reliable conservative vote in the Senate.

State Sen.Brandon Beach:

The head of the North Fulton Chamber of Commerce, Beach is an outspoken
supporter of gambling initiatives to raise money for the HOPE scholarship and a
pro-transit advocate who fought offa bitter primary challenge from the right
against a rival who attacked him for his MARTA support.

Former Georgia Secretary of State Karen Handel:

She's a power broker in north Fulton County, and her campaigns for governor and
the U.S.Senate revolved around building support in Atlanta's northern suburbs.
She's also close to Price's circle, which could pay dividends if other Price
loyalists stay out of the race.

State Sen.Judson Hill:

Almost all of Hill's Senate territory--which stretches from Cobb County to Sandy
Springs--is in Price's district.And Hill, who seems all but guaranteed to run,
would try to unite Cobb voters behind him. Cade Joiner: A onetime College
Republican leader who is a small business owner, Joiner would likely run as an
outsider.

State Rep.Jan Jones:

The Milton lawmaker is the highest-ranking woman in Georgia GOP politics as th

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2016 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


                             426 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

New Balance sprints from 'white people' shoes tag;
Pro-Trump comment poses PR dilemma for sneaker company

BYLINE: Mike Snider

SECTION: ; Pg. Z5

LENGTH: 519 words


sembled New Balance at the shoes company being 's as-plant in Lawrence, Mass.

Athletic shoe company New Balance continues to endure a public relations
backlash after a company executive's perceived pro-Donald Trump comments were
embraced by a white supremacist blogger who deemed their shoes "the official
shoes of white people."

In response, the U.S.-based private company is blanketing social media with
statements that it "does not tolerate bigotry or hate in any form."

The situation highlights the landmines that companies face in a post-election
marketplace with a divided constituency of consumers. With the nation's voting
population split down the center, a company taking a political stand, either
intentionally or inadvertently, risks alienating nearly half of its potential
customer base. And the speed in which kerfuffles spread over social media can
increase the damage caused by a public relations slip-up or misunderstanding.

"How do brands navigate a hyper-polarized political world?" said Matthew Quint,
director of the Columbia Business School's Center on Global Brand Leadership.
"It's going to be a very interesting and tricky thing."

New Balance's situation is reminiscent of Chick-fil-A after its president, Dan
Cathy, in 2012 said the company opposed same-sex marriage. "That stigma has
stuck with Chick-fil-A. You will still get heated responses about that," said
Marlene Morris Towns, a professor of marketing at Georgetown University's
McDonough School of Business.

Complicating the issue is New Balance's mention of Trump by name, Towns said,
which some consumers can take as a sign that "I'm OK with misogyny, sexism and
racism or whatever, because it helps my business."

New Balance found itself in the middle of controversy after Matthew LeBretton,
the company's vice president of public affairs, told The Wall Street Journal the
day after the presidential election that "The Obama administration turned a deaf
ear to us and, frankly, with President-elect Trump, we feel things are going to
move in the right direction."

The Boston-headquartered company says those comments were taken out of context
and were about U.S. trade policy and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade
agreement between the U.S. and 11 other countries in the Asia Pacific and
Americas. New Balance, which The NPD Group estimates owns about 4% of the global
athletic footwear market, long has opposed the TPP, while competitors such as
Nike with significant international production have supported the pact.

LeBretton's comments ignited a wave of online protests from customers who posted
pictures of their New Balance shoes in the trash or being set on fire, along
with pledges to boycott the brand. "Good to know this. #Boycott Any company who
supported Trump!" said one tweet.

The situation percolated to another level after white supremacist website The
Daily Stormer's publisher Andrew Anglin wrote. "We need to support that. I see
New Balances now becoming the official shoes of white people."

New Balance already had posted statements on social media in an attempt to
distance itself from the white supremacist site.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             427 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

PROMISES PROMISES PROMISES;
Although Trump is backing off on some of his campaign pledges, it may not matter
to his supporters - or foes

BYLINE: Rick Hampson

SECTION: ; Pg. Z1

LENGTH: 897 words


President-elect Donald Trump is backing off some of his more dramatic campaign
promises, but - and don't breathe a word of this to George H.W. Bush - neither
his supporters nor his opponents seem very upset.

Studies show that most presidential candidates have honored most of their
campaign promises. Once elected, however, everyone compromises, backtracks or
fudges to some extent.

Trump will be no exception, judging from his comments during the past week. He's
said he wouldn't necessarily build a wall along every inch of the Mexican
border; would focus deportation efforts not on all undocumented immigrants but
on those with criminal records; and try to retain some redeeming facets of
Obamacare.

For a variety of reasons - including his supporters' love of him, his opponents'
hatred of his proposals and a general acknowledgment that Trump is best taken
seriously but not literally - this president may prove more immune than most to
the political cost of broken promises.

John McGlennon, who teaches government at the College of William & Mary, says,
"Both sides are willing to give him more flexibility than a conventional
candidate would be allowed."

More, certainly, than the 41st president got. Bush failed to win re-election in
1992 after campaigning in 1988 on a promise - "Read my lips: No new taxes!'' -
he later broke.

Possibly because few major presidential candidates have made such drastic
proposals, many Trump opponents are relieved he apparently won't try to do
everything he said he'd do. Many Trump supporters say they never really expected
him to do everything he said he'd do.

"I prayed that he would have a change of heart, that he'd realize that some
things he said he'd do he cannot do," such as vaporize the Affordable Care Act,
says Angelina Iles, a retired school employee who lives in Pineville, La. and
voted for Hillary Clinton.

David Bugh of Lancaster, Ohio, a pastor and small business owner, says he was
afraid after Trump passed 270 electoral votes on election night. Given signs of
what he calls Trump's "moderation," he says, "I'm a little less pessimistic
now."

Even a die-hard Never-Trumper such as Democrat Rich Langan of Ashwaubenon, Wis.,
a retired police officer, says he's trying to keep an open mind: "I'll give him
six months."

Despite some fiery campaign rhetoric, "once he's in office, he'll soften up on
pretty much everything," says Barry Fixler, who opened his own Trump
headquarters last year in Bardonia, N.Y.

That's fine with Fixler, a jeweler. "In his heart, Trump loves people. He won't
do anything to drastically affect people," such as non-criminal undocumented
immigrants. "He's not going to throw out children. He's just going after the
criminals and ISIS.''

Many Trump voters say their man's opponents were spooked by his campaign
promises because they didn't understand how he works.

Gene Dunn is a longtime Trump admirer who took his son out of school to attend
Trump's presidential campaign announcement at Trump Tower. Trump's campaign
promises were "standard The Art of the Deal practice,'' he says, referring to
Trump's 1987 best seller. "Asking for the whole enchilada, but settling for
what's reasonable. And all sides can claim victory.''

A.D. Amar, an Indian immigrant and business professor who lives in Warren, N.J.,
agrees that many of Trump's campaign promises were really opening gambits: "That
is Trump's style as a negotiator. He throws the extreme negative outcome at his
opponents. This brings them to the table, and then whatever they get after the
negotiation is better than what Trump originally threw at them."

Here's how President-elect Trump has been rewriting candidate Trump:

uSome elements of the Affordable Care Act, which he'd promised to repeal and
replace, are worth keeping. He cited provisions requiring coverage of
preexisting medical conditions and allowing children to remain on parents' plans
until they turn 26. "I like those very much," Trump told The Wall Street
Journal.

uSome undocumented immigrants are "terrific people," and his priorities are 1)
securing the border and 2) deporting criminals. The number of undocumented
immigrants is about 11 million; criminals in that group number anywhere from
800,000 to several million.

uSome sections of the "big beautiful wall" he's vowed to build along the border
might actually look more like fencing.

If and when Americans try to pin candidate Trump's promises to President Trump,
they will have their work cut out for them, says John Baick, who teaches
American political history at Western New England University in Springfield,
Mass.

One problem is sheer volume - the "many, many promises made on the campaign
trail," Baick says. "There is almost certainly no candidate who has produced
more verbiage, in person and in digital form, than Donald Trump."

Another is the lack of specifics. Trump, Baick says, "can claim that he has kept
many simply by taking symbolic steps." It may be enough if Trump starts to build
the wall, just as John F. Kennedy gets credit for starting a man-on-the-moon
program.

Trump may already have kept his biggest, most emotional promise to supporters,
McGlennon says: "As long as they feel he'll bring an end to business as usual in
Washington, they'll worry about the details later on.''

But there will be a later on.

"At some point, people want specifics," McGlennon says. "Is Trump disciplined
enough to provide them?''

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             428 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Astronaut, college coach among thousands of ballot write-ins in Ohio;
20,000 uncertified write-in votes cast, analysis shows.;
ELECTION 2016

BYLINE: ByJulie CarrSmyth

SECTION: ; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 492 words


Ohio State head coach Urban Meyer won some write-in votes to succeed President
Barack Obama. The two are shown during the Buckeyes' visit to the White House.

Former Democratic U.S. Sen. John Glenn of Ohio was among uncertified candidates
that Ohio voters wrote in as their U.S. presidential picks during the general
election as alternatives to candidates, including Hillary Clinton.

COLUMBUS - An astronaut, a college football coach and possibly a reality
television "bad girl" are among the non-contenders that certain exasperated
Ohioans voted to send to the White House in last week's election.

John Glenn and Ohio State coach Urban Meyer are among uncertified candidates
written in as alternatives to Republican Donald Trump, Democrat Hillary Clinton
and the other options. Another write-in was "Megan James," perhaps referring to
Mehgan James of reality TV's "Bad Girls Club" and "Basketball Wives LA."

Ohio Republicans to the highest levels reported going with ineligible write-in
candidates.

Instead of supporting Trump, Gov. John Kasich scratched in the name of Sen. John
McCain, the party's 2008 presidential nominee. U.S. Sen. Rob Portman registered
his lack of support for Trump by writing in his running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike
Pence.

Statistics suggest the trend was rampant.

An Associated Press analysis found more than 20,000 uncertified write-in votes
were cast in the eight of Ohio's 10 largest counties for which data is
available. That well exceeds the roughly 16,000 combined votes cast statewide
for 18 certified presidential write-ins, as reflected in final unofficial
results.

A scant 37 total write-in votes for president were cast in Ohio in 2012,
according to the Secretary of State's website.

Voters' ineligible presidential picks are difficult to determine. Most counties
contacted by the AP said they don't keep lists, because the uncertified write-in
votes don't count and aren't required to be tallied or reported to the state.

Lorain County elections clerk Dave Stambol said there's also another reason: "We
always get the people who write in their own name so they can see themselves in
the newspaper. So we just don't go there."

A sampling of names was provided by Franklin County in central Ohio. It included
Glenn, who's a Democratic former senator, as well as Meyer, James, Cleveland
Indians manager Terry Francona and a host of past presidential contenders.

Among them were Kasich and fellow 2016 aspirants Ben Carson, Ted Cruz, Marco
Rubio, Mike Huckabee, Rick Santorum and Bernie Sanders. The GOP's 2012 nominee,
Mitt Romney, U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan and Congresswoman Joyce Beatty were
also among those reported, formally and anecdotally.

A social media rumor that votes were cast for Harambe, the gorilla killed by the
Cincinnati Zoo to protect a child that had entered his enclosure, aren't
confirmable. The BoardofElectionsinhishome county of Hamilton declined to
provide any information on its uncertified write-ins.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             429 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 18, 2016 Friday

Retired general Flynn offered security position;
Trump meets with Japanese leader, talks with S.C., Fla.

BYLINE: By Ken Thomas and Catherine Lucey

SECTION: ; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 870 words


Retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn gives the thumbs-up as he arrives at Trump Tower
on Thursday.

NEWYORK- President-elect Donald Trump began building out his national security
team Thursday, offering retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn the job of national
security adviser. The move came as Trump made his most direct foray into foreign
policy since the election, meeting with Japan's prime minister.

Flynn, who served as the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, has
advised Trump on national security issues for months. As national security
adviser, he would work in the White House and have frequent access to the
president.

The official wouldn't say whether Flynn had accepted the job. The official was
not authorized to discuss the offer publicly and insisted on anonymity.

Trump held his first face-to-face meeting with a world leader since winning the
presidential election, huddling privately with Japan's Shinzo Abe.

While Trump made no comments following the private meeting, Abe said the
president-elect was "a leader in whom I can have great confidence."

Earlier Thursday, Trump consulted with former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger
and sat down with South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, a potential contender to lead
the State Department.

In Washington, Vice President-elect Mike Pence huddled with Republican leaders
in Congress. He then met with House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Sen. Chuck
Schumer, the newly elected leader of the Senate Democrats, seeking to convey
respect as Democrats prepare for Republican rule of both chambers and the White
House for the first time in a decade.

"We look forward to finding ways that we can find common ground and move the
country forward," Pence said outside Schumer's Senate office.

In a separate gesture of reconciliation with establishment Republicans, Trump
planned to meet with 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who
lambasted Trump as a "con man" and a "fraud" in a stinging speech last March.
Trump responded by repeatedly referring to Romney as a "loser."

The two began mending fences after Trump's victory when Romney called with
congratulations. They are to meet this weekend, a transition official said,
speaking on condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to discuss
Trump's schedule publicly. Campaign manager Kellyanne Conway said they were
still "working on" the meeting.

Trump's actions Thursday aimed to show leaders both in the U.S. and overseas
that he could soften his rhetoric, offer pragmatism in the White House and
reaffirm longstanding American alliances. Since his stunning victory over
Hillary Clinton last week, Trump has spoken with Russian President Vladimir
Putin, British Prime Minister Theresa May and nearly three dozen other world
leaders by telephone. But Abe's visit to Trump's midtown Manhattan high-rise was
his first in-person meeting with a foreign leader since the end of the campaign.

Ron Dermer, Israel's ambassador to the United States, also visited the
skyscraper and called Trump "a true friend of Israel." He specifically cited as
another "friend" Trump campaign CEO Steve Bannon, whose selection as a top White
House adviser has created a backlash among Democrats. Bannon's news website has
peddled conspiracy theories, white nationalism and anti-Semitism.

"We look forward to working with the Trump administration, with all the members
of the Trump administration, including Steve Ban-non, in making the U.S.-Israel
alliance stronger than ever," Dermer said.

Trump, a reality television star, business mogul and political newcomer, also
rolled out new teams that will interact with the State Department, Pentagon,
Justice Department and other national security agencies. The move is part of the
government transition before Trump's Jan. 20 inauguration.

One potential Cabinet member, Eva Moskowitz, said had taken herself out of the
running to become education secretary. Moskowitz, a Democrat and advocate for
charter schools, met with Trump this week, stoking speculation that she might
inject a bit of bipartisanship in the new administration.

Moskowitz, who voted for Clinton, suggested there were "positive signs" that
Trump might govern differently than he campaigned, but she wrote in a letter to
parents that many of her students, who are overwhelmingly black and Latino,
would feel that "they are the target of the hatred that drove Trump's campaign."

Conway said she expected initial announcements of Cabinet choices to come
"before or right after Thanksgiving," telling reporters Trump was "loving" the
transition. Trump's transition team finally finished key paperwork clearing the
way for the White House to start sharing information. Coordination had been on
hold until Trump's team submitted documents including a list of transition team
members who will coordinate with specific federal agencies, plus certification
that they meet a code of conduct barring conflicts of interest.

Trump's calendar has been packed with sit-downs.

During his meeting with Kissinger, who led the State Department under Presidents
Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford, the two discussed relations with China, Russia,
Iran and the European Union. Other meetings have included Haley, the daughter of
Indian-born parents,

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             430 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday

Tim Ryan finds 'no joy' in Pelosi challenge;
Democrats look to future of House leadership post.;
WASHINGTON BUREAU

BYLINE: ByJackTorry

SECTION: ; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 497 words


U.S. Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Niles, is considering challenging House Minority Leader
Nancy Pelosi.

WASHINGTON - Declaring he takes "no joy" in challenging House Democratic Leader
Nancy Pelosi of California, Rep. Tim Ryan said without new leadership
congressional Democrats will "miss the opportunity of a generation" in making
major gains in the 2018 elections.

Ryan, 43, whose Northeast Ohio district is home to blue-collar working people
who voted for Republican President-elect Donald Trump, said in a telephone
interview he can connect with those voters in ways that a San Francisco
progressive such as Pelosi cannot.

"When you see working class people - blue-collar people - going and voting for
Trump, that's a failure of the Democratic Party because they felt like we didn't
care about them," Ryan said. "That just makes my stomach sick."

"It's time for us to get off rear ends and start leading," Ryan said. "That's
why we need new leadership. This is not rocket science. But you have to have the
guts to do what is right."

Pointing out that parties in power often perform poorly in the first off-year
elections, Ryan said "if we aren't well-positioned with good candidates in
districts all across the United States," in 2018, "then we are going to miss the
opportunity of a generation."

Although Ryan faces difficult odds in his bid to depose Pelosi, 76, as minority
leader, his challenge is a sign that HouseDemocratsareincreasingly restless with
Pelosi, a former House speaker and skilled fundraiser. Democrats have not
controlled the House since the end of 2010.

Jim Manley, a former adviser to Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said
"after the last couple of weeks who knows" if Ryan can defeat Pelosi, but he
added "it is an uphill battle trending toward highly unlikely."

R y a n , w h o s e d i s - trict includes Niles and Youngstownandreachesinto
Stark County with Alliance and Lexington Township, said Pelosi has not replied
to a long text message and phone message he left for her this week.

"If you keep losing, it's time to make a change," Ryan said. "We've got to have
the courage to do it. I'm sorry we have to have this conversation. I take no joy
in this. I consider Nancy Pelosi a friend and a mentor."

Ryan expressed disappointment that Democratic presidential nominee Hillary
Clinton did not develop a message that could resonate with working class people
in Ohio and throughout the Midwest.

By contrast, former President Bill Clinton in Columbus in late October said his
"heart breaks for a lot of people" voting for Trump "who are just so angry and
hurt because they think all their tomorrows are going to be like today, they
can't change them and we don't give a rip about them. But we do."

Ryan said "these working-class people who struggle every single day to make ends
meet and keep food on their table think our party is not for them. Our party was
always the party of the average American, the working class American. It bothers
me so much that here we are."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             431 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday

Silver lining: At least Trump hasn't appointed Palin - yet;
FROM THE LEFT

BYLINE: Gail Collins

SECTION: ; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 466 words


One of Donald Trump's big advantages now is that he has so many awful
associates. No matter what appointees he foists on us, there's always another
pal who'd have been worse. If he names some federal land-grabbing oilman as
secretary of the interior, people are going to sigh with relief and say, "At
least it isn't Sarah Palin."

And Reince Priebus - until a few days ago Priebus was just the head of the
Republican National Committee, a seriously unexciting guy with a
hard-to-pronounce name. Then he got picked to be White House chief of staff at
the same time Steve Bannon, the loathsome alt-right cheerleader, was named chief
strategy adviser. Everyone fell madly in love with Priebus, who was ... way less
bad.

The whole world is watching the Trump transition - nine weeks and 3,998
appointments to go! If you want to look on the bright side, remember that
however horrific you feel about what's happening in Washington, Chris Christie
feels worse.

Farewell, Chris Christie, farewell. We've said goodbye to his political career
so many times - Bridge-gate, the ever-plummeting New Jersey credit rating, the
time he chased a heckler down the boardwalk waving an ice cream cone. The doomed
presidential race. The humiliating stint standing behind Trump at news
conferences, looking as if he'd been hit on the head with a mallet.

Tweets aside, we have heard from Donald Trump only once this week - not counting
the time he went to eat at the 21 Club in Manhattan and promised one of the
other well-heeled diners a tax break. He was more expansive in a "60 Minutes"
interview, clarifying his promise to "drain the swamp" if he was elected. Many
people thought he was talking about lobbyists. But apparently it was just a
passing reference to easing the regulations on inland wetlands.

Meanwhile, somebody is promoting Ted Cruz's name for attorney general. Could it
be ... Ted Cruz? This is one potential nomination that would have no trouble
getting confirmed, since the idea of getting Cruz out of the Senate would
probably corral a massive vote.

The only person we know for sure is not going to be in the Trump Cabinet is Ben
Carson, who was briefly rumored as a possible head of the Department of Health
and Human Services. But Armstrong Williams, Carson's business manager, told The
Hill that the politician-neurosurgeon had ruled that out. "Dr. Carson feels he
has no government experience, he's never run a federal agency," Armstrong
explained.

The world stops briefly, and mulls that this man did feel equipped to run for
president. Then the world moves on.

Among the other potential candidates for secretary of state are John Bolton, the
former United Nations ambassador who is famous for hating the United Nations.
Bolton actually makes Giuliani seem ... less awful. And there's always Sarah
Palin.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             432 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Trump-Romney chat 'far-reaching';
President-elect, key GOP critic aim to bury hatchet; no hint yet of job offer

BYLINE: Ledyard King

SECTION: ; Pg. Z2

LENGTH: 460 words


Pence President welcome -elect Mitt Donald Romney Trump as and he arrives Vice
President for a day -elect of meet Mike - ings at the clubhouse of the Trump
National Golf Club.

Mitt Romney, who for months told the American public Donald Trump was unfit for
the White House, spent more than an hour Saturday talking to the president-elect
on global affairs.

The meeting began around 1 p.m. at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J.,
with Trump and Vice President-elect Mike Pence greeting the 2012 GOP
presidential nominee at the clubhouse door. It ended around 2:20 p.m. with Trump
seeing him off, and Romney making a brief statement to reporters.

It was "a far-reaching conversation with regards to the various theaters in the
world where there are interests of the United States of real significance,"
Romney said. "We discussed those areas and exchanged our views on those topics.
(It was) a very thorough and in-depth discussion in the time we had, and I
appreciated the chance to speak with the president-elect and look forward to the
coming administration."

As Romney approached reporters, Trump cupped his hands around his mouth and said
"it went great," according to a pool report.

There was no confirmation or suggestion of a job offer despite reports of
Romney's interest in the secretary of State post. Analysts say it's doubtful
Trump would offer a job in his administration or that Romney would accept it
given the verbal jabs they exchanged on the trail.

Former Arkansas governor and Trump confidant Mike Huckabee said it "doesn't make
any sense" to give someone who was such a vocal critic a top Cabinet post.

"To give a guy a job who basically said all his supporters were following a con
man, I just think that would be an insult to the voters," Huckabee told Fox News
on Saturday.

During the campaign, Romney called Trump a "phony ... a fraud... (and) a con
man," among other pointed criticisms. Trump responded that Romney was
"irrelevant (and) a choke artist."

Romney was the first of several high-profile visitors meeting with Trump and
Pence this weekend. Former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani and New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie were expected to meet with Trump on Sunday.

Also on the schedule: former Washington, D.C., Schools chancellor Michelle Rhee,
school voucher advocate Betsy DeVos, retired U.S. Marine Corps general James
Mattis, Chicago Cubs owner and GOP fundraiser Todd Ricketts, Center for
Neighborhood Enterprises President Bob Woodson, Republican National Committee
finance chair and businessman Lew Eisenberg (Commerce), surgeon and businessman
Patrick Soon-Shiong, conservative writer John Gray, immigration hard-liner Kris
Kobach, venture capitalist Wilbur Ross, BET founder Robert Johnson and global
investor David McCormick.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             433 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Facebook details its plans to crack down on fake news;
Zuckerberg doubts it influenced election

BYLINE: Ashley May

SECTION: ; Pg. Z1

LENGTH: 298 words


Zuckerberg

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg shared his plan of attack against phony news
stories on the social media platform, following up an announcement about work
"to flag fake news and hoaxes" after a vicious presidential election.

In a new post, Zuckerberg said Facebook previously relied on users to determine
which stories were accurate, and said the company still believes in "erring on
the side of letting people share what they want whenev-While the CEO made it
clear Facebook will continue to "rely on our community and trusted third
parties," he knows "people want accurate information." So, the company plans to
make some changes.

Zuckerberg didn't share a timeline for implementation or promise the projects
would correct the problem. "Some of these ideas will work well, and some will
not," he wrote. But, he did say Facebook is "committed to getting this right."

Some have said fake news stories influenced voters to back Republican Donald
Trump, but Zuckerberg said it was "extremely unlikely" that phony stories on the
social network affected the outcome.

Nearly half of Americans get their news from Facebook, according to the Pew
Research Center. Just two in 10 U.S. adults get news from print newspapers.

As its dominance has grown, Facebook has resisted claims it's a de facto news
publisher, exercising editorial judgment with the power to sway billions of
minds.

But President Obama cited Facebook's influence at a pre-election Michigan rally
for Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.

"And people, if they just repeat attacks enough, and outright lies over and over
again, as long as it's on Facebook and people can see it, as long as it's on
social media, people start believing it. And it creates this dust cloud of
nonsense," he said.

Contributing: Kevin McCoy

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             434 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Pope decries 'virus' of polarization over race, faith;
He cautions against those who 'raise walls, label people.'

BYLINE: By Frances D'Emilio

SECTION: ; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 570 words


New Cardinal Blase Cupich, Archbishop of Chicago, receives the red
three-cornered biretta hat at the Vatican Saturday. Pope Francis lamented how
immigrants, refugees, and those of different races or faiths are increasingly
seen as enemies.

VATICANCITY -PopeFrancis warned against what he called a "virus of polarization"
and hostility in the world targeting people of different nationalities, races or
beliefs as he led a ceremony Saturday giving the Roman Catholic Church 17 new
cardinals from six continents.

The consistory ceremony in St. Peter's Basilica formally inducted the churchmen
into the cardinals' ranks.

Francis used his homily to also caution the new "princes of the church," as
cardinals are sometimes called, to guard against animosity creeping into the
church as well, saying "we are not immune from this."

The pope spoke of "our pitiful hearts that tend to judge, divide, oppose and
condemn" and cautioned somberly against those who "raise walls, build barriers
and label people."

Earlier this year, when asked about the plan by DonaldTrump,thenaRepublican U.S.
presidential candidate and now president-elect, to build a wall to keep Mexicans
and others from illegally entering the U.S., the pope replied that anyone
advocating building walls isn't a Christian.

In Saturday's homily, Francis commented on how "we see, for example, how quickly
those among us with the status of the stranger, an immigrant, or a refugee,
become a threat, take on the status of an enemy. An enemy because they come from
a distant country, or have different customs. An enemy because of the color of
their skin, their language, or social class."

He added: "The virus of polarization and animosity permeates our way of
thinking, feeling and acting."

Francis also lamented the tendency to "demonize" one's opponents, "so as to have
a 'sacred' justification for dismissing them."

Cardinals serve as papal advisers and elect popes' successors. Popes look to
cardinals who share their approach to the church's mission in the world.

Indianapolis Archbishop Joseph Tobin was among the newly made cardinals. Tobin
defied the governor of Indiana, Vice President-elect Mike Pence, by welcoming
Syrian refugees.

Chicago Archbishop Blase Cupich, after being made a cardinal at Saturday's
ceremony, said the church has a special role in trying to bring people together
across the political spectrum. He noted that on Sunday, Masses are celebrated in
26 languages in his diocese.

"People feel disenfranchised" from sharing in the common good, Cupich said.

Another American in the latest crop of cardinals is Irish-born Archbishop Kevin
Farrell, who led the Dallas diocese before Francis appointed him to head the
Vatican office dealing with family issues. At a post-ceremony reception, Farrell
acknowledged that polarization is felt within the church, too.

"We've become gods on both sides - gods on the left, and gods on the right, and
neither one of these are correct," Farrell said.

The clash of mentalities between the conservative camps and the so-called
progressives chosen by Francis has played out publicly in recent days. Four
prominent, disgruntled cardinals, including a U.S. prelate, Raymond Burke, who
is one of Francis' most vocal critics, in a letter to the pope aired their
doubts about his more compassionate approach to the contentious issue involving
divorced Catholics. They fear his approach could sow confusion among the
faithful.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             435 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday

Result spurs debate over Electoral College;
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: ByJackTorry

SECTION: ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1130 words


Rutherford B. Hayes lost the popular vote to Samuel J. Tilden , but it was Hayes
who became president.

Benjamin Harrison had 65 more electoral votes than Grover Cleveland but .8
percent fewer votes.

George W. Bush and Al Gore were engaged in a weeks-long legal tussle after their
close election fight.

Donald J. Trump beat Hillary Clinton in the Electoral College but lost the
popular vote.

Tia Thomas can't get past the fact that the candidate who received the most
votes in the Nov. 8 election won't be president of the United States.

"It's an illusion of a democracy," said Thomas, a 32-year-old saleswoman from
Dayton who voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton over Republican Donald Trump. "We
don't have a say."

When all the votes are counted, Clinton may receive as many as 2 million more
votes nationally than Trump. Yet for the second time in the last five elections,
the candidate who won the popular vote was denied the presidency.

In U.S. history it has happened four times, and each time a Democrat was on the
losing end in the Electoral College.

While the outcome of this election won't change, the divisive presidential
campaign has reignited an intense dispute over the future of the Electoral
College, a process established by the founding fathers in 1789 that turns
national elections into more than 50 mini-contests.

To critics, the Electoral College is a quaint relic that has gone the way of the
musket, wooden sailing ships and voting restricted to white males.

The 2000 and 2016 elections make the point, they say. In 2000, Democrat Al Gore
won 543,816 more votes nationally than Republican George W. Bush, yet Bush
prevailed with 271 electoral votes after the U.S. Supreme Court settled a
dispute over ballots in Florida.

On Nov. 8, Trump had an even bigger Electoral College victory, pulling in 290
electoral votes.

"When we think of democracy, we think the person who won the most votes should
win and that's true for every other election" except president, said Alex
Keyssar, a professor of history and social policy at the Kennedy School of
Government at Harvard University.

"It doesn't take a great exercise of imagination to think if it were reversed,
Donald Trump would have launched the mother of all lawsuits," said Keyssar,
author of the soon-to-be-released book "Why Do We Still Have the Electoral
College?"

Some argue too that the apportionment of electors disproportionately benefits
small states - which tend to be red states - because each state, no matter how
small, is guaranteed three electors, one for each senator and representative.

But others, like Mike Dawson, creator of the website Ohioelectionresults.com,
say if the rules were changed, big states would "disproportionately decide who
is president.''

Abolishing the Electoral College would be "an invitation for chaos," argues Ohio
Secretary of State Jon Husted, a Republican. Without the Electoral College,
candidates would devote most of their time to the largest states, such as
California, New York, Texas, Florida, and Ohio, while ignoring smaller states
such as Iowa and New Hampshire.

They point out if the national popular vote was close, such as John F. Kennedy's
112,827-vote margin over Richard Nixon in 1960, it would prompt a protracted
national recount that could last weeks before a winner was declared.

A n d t h ey i n s i s t t h at without an Electoral College, there might be
five or more presidential candidates instead of the two nominated by the
Republicans and Democrats. In such a multi-candidate field, the winner could
emerge with as little as one-third of the popular vote.

"Do you want California, which may not check an ID and allow anyone to vote ...
then have a more strict standard in Indiana where people check against those
kinds of things?" Husted said. "We have the longest-functioning democracy in the
world, and it has served us well."

'It was a fair election'

The framers settled on the Electoral College as a compromise between allowing
Congress to pick the president or letting the voters decide. They opted for the
states to pick electors - either through a popular vote or by the legislatures.
The electors would then select the president.

The framers believed the Electoral College would lead to more nationally known
and qualified people to become president. Originally, only a handful of states
had voters select the electors, although by the 1830s most states held popular
elections to choose electors. Today, electors are essentially bound to support
the candidate who won their state.

Under the rules - long accepted by both parties - Trump emerged as the
legitimate winner. "It was a fair election," said Peter Ellis, 75, who lives in
Beavercreek and voted for Trump. "It's fair according to the rules. The rules
are set up for those reasons."

But critics say because Clinton won the popular vote by a healthy margin, it is
difficult to conclude Trump earned a clear mandate from the American voters. If
anything, more Americans voted for the status quo candidate than for Trump, who
was promising sweeping changes in Washington.

"The only thing I say is our vote should count," said Jackie Swenson, 56, a
beauty supply store manager in South Charleston who voted for Clinton. "Every
vote should count regardless."

Those same critics say jettisoning the Electoral College would inject more
enthusiasm among voters across the country. Only a handful of states, including
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Virginia, Florida, and North Carolina, are
considered competitive and candidates spend most of their time in those states.

By contrast, a Democratic candidate can reliably count on winning California and
New York while Republicans know they have major advantages in winning Texas and
the deep South. As a result, there is no reason for any candidate to campaign in
California.

"If you had a national popular vote, both parties would have a strong incentive
to maximize their turnout," Jack Rakove, a Pulitzer Prize winning professor of
history and political science at Stanford University. "Everybody knows public
opinion has been against the Electoral College for some time and this will
reinforce that opinion."

Aboli shing the Electoral College, however, is extremely unlikely. It would
require Congress to approve a constitutional amendment that would have to be
sent to the states for their approval.

Demographics change

Some argue that the country's rapidly changing demographics may lead to more
states being competitive, such as Texas.

"The Electoral College should move closer to the popular vote in time if we
continue to be a more diverse country," said Rep. Mike Cur-tin, D-Marble Cliff,
co-author of the Ohio Politics Almanac. "That is more desirable than trying to
change the U.S. Constitution."

Jim Siegel of the Columbus

Dispatch contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             436 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Coal's decline may continue even under Trump;
Shale gas makes it difficult to reverse black rock trend;
ENERGY

BYLINE: Loveless Bill

SECTION: ; Pg. Z5

LENGTH: 624 words


Experts Coal miners say market load equipment forces often on trailers make it
at difficult the Sufco to quickly Coal Mine develop , 30 miles new coal east
plants of Salina . , Utah.

During his campaign for the White House, President-elect Donald Trump promised
to eliminate regulations that target coal-fired power plants, one of the primary
causes of carbon emissions responsible for climate change.

For Trump, a climate-change skeptic, getting rid of the Obama administration's
Clean Power Plan, which would curb carbon emissions from power plants by 32% by
2030, would give a boost to the declining U.S. coal industry and its decimated
workforce across Appalachia.

Even if the next president were to succeed, he would probably not reverse a
years-long movement away from coal in the U.S. electric power industry, the
biggest consumer of the black rock, according to the head of one of the nation's
leading electric utilities.

"If he were able to do that, I don't know really how much impact it would have
because we're moving ahead and rebalancing our portfolio," Nick Akins, the
president and CEO of American Electric Power, said recently.

"I think it's going to be very difficult for new coal-fired generation to get
developed," he said.

Obama-era policies requiring reductions in emissions of carbon, mercury and
other pollutants have contributed to coal's loss of market share in the power
sector.

Even more significant has been record U.S. production of cheap shale gas, thanks
to hydraulic fracturing and other technologies, plus the slow but steady
penetration of wind and solar energy into power markets.

"It's a seven-year construction cycle for a coal unit; 15 years for a nuclear
unit," Akins said in a phone call from AEP's Columbus, Ohio, headquarters. "You
can develop a natural gas plant in two to three years, with a lot less risk for
shareholders, and the price of natural gas as a fuel source is still
substantially low.

"And there are areas of the country that benefit from low-cost renewable fuels,
particularly wind, and solar continues to come down as well, particularly
utility-scale solar. Those are areas that will continue to develop."

For AEP, which has 5.4 million customers in 11 states, coal's share of the
company's generating capacity has fallen from 71% in 2005 to about 47% in 2017.
Over that time, gas capacity has risen from 20% to 27%, and renewable energy has
jumped from 3% to 13%.

The switch is happening even faster across the USA, where gas surpasses coal as
a fuel for power plants.

All told, the U.S. Energy Information Administration expects gas to provide an
average of 34% of the electricity generated in the USA in 2016, compared with
30% for coal.

Also figuring heavily in utility investment decisions are changing expectations
among customers, especially demands for "clean energy" among younger customers.

"There's no doubt that there's an element of environmental stewardship that
continues to be part of the fabric of our investment thesis," Akins said.

Trump's bid to reverse Obama environmental policies may provide a reprieve for
some older coal power plants, though gas prices, if they remain low, will
probably cut into those units' operating time, according to the utility chief.

Trump's commitment to promote new infrastructure may benefit companies such as
AEP, whose 40,000-mile electric transmission network is the largest in the USA.

AEP spends more than $3 billion a year on transmission improvements, including
projects designed to bring new renewable and distributed energy to market.

As for communities where AEP has shuttered coal power plants, the company works
with economic-development officials in states such as Kentucky to see whether
the sites can be marketed for new manufacturing.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             437 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Taxes on the minds of Brown, Portman;
One wants better trade agenda; the other, fewer rates.;
CAPITOL CORRIDORS

BYLINE: ByJana Heigl

SECTION: ; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 303 words


Portman

Brown

WASHINGTON - Sen. Sher-rod Brown warned last week that "Ohio workers will feel
betrayed" if President-elect Donald Trump and congressional Republicans next
year opt for a major tax cut or ease regulations on Wall Street investment banks

adopted in the wake of t h e 2 00 8 financial

collapse.

In an opinion piece in The New York Times, Brown, D-Ohio, wrote: "Ohio workers
know they toil harder and are paid less than their parents, and have less power
to control the hours they work and their share of the wealth they create for
their employer. This diverse force feels betrayed by trade and tax policies that
create immense affluence at the top and take wealth from workers.

"Workers will expect the president to keep his promise of a trade agenda that
puts their jobs above corporate profits."

In defeating Democratic presidential nominee Hillary ClintoninOhio,Trumpscored
major gains in areas dominated by blue-collar workers.

Even though Ohio's unemployment rate has tumbled from 11 percent in 2009 to 4.9
percent last month, large areas of Ohio have lost manufacturing jobs during the
past four decades because of intense international competition and rapid
developments in automation by manufacturing companies.

Portman pushes

for tax reform

In the wake of Trump's election, Sen. Rob Port-man, R-Ohio, again raised his
favorite issue of overhauling the federal income tax code to make it simpler,
with fewer income tax rates.

In an interview last week on CNBC, Portman said: "On tax reform there's a chance
we can make this bipartisan. There's a sense that too many jobs are going
overseas, investmentsgoing overseas.

"The

c o d e i s clearly broken - the highest corporate tax rate in the world. And
it's affecting workers. I think that's where you can see a lot of consensus
between Republicans and Democrats."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             438 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Obama, Putin talk briefly at Asia-Pacific meeting;
It might be the final encounter between the two leaders.;
PERU ECONOMIC SUMMIT

BYLINE: ByToluse Olorunnipa, MargaretTalevand IlyaArkhipov

SECTION: ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 330 words


Leaders of many nations gather at Sunday's trade summit in Lima, Peru, for
members of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation. At the meeting, President Barack
Obama urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to respect Ukraine's sovereignty
and uphold Russia's commitments under the Minsk agreements.

President Barack Obama talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin at Sunday's
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Lima, Peru.

A four-minute meeting between President Barack Obama and Russian President
Vladimir Putin in Lima, Peru, might be the final encounter between the two
leaders as tensions continue over Ukraine, Syria, human rights and the U.S.
presidential election.

The brief meeting came as Asia-Pacific leaders gathered for a Sunday morning
session. There is no plan for second meeting, a Putin spokesman said.

It was the first meeting between the two since Donald Trump won the election.
During the campaign, Democrats accused Russia of interfering in a way that
helped Trump, the Republican nominee. U.S. intelligence officials have tied the
Russian government to the hacking and subsequent leaking of Democrats' emails
that hurt Hillary Clinton's campaign.

A summary of the "brief and informal" discussion, provided by the White House,
said Obama restated U.S. and allies' commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty, urged
Putin to uphold Russia's commitments under the Minsk agreements, and said U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov must keep
working with other nations to end the war in Syria.

Bombing by Syria's government has intensified in recent days. The U.S. has
criticized Russia for backing the Syrian regime in a civil war that has killed
more than 300,000 people.

ObamahascalledonTrump to "stand up" to Putin when Russiapursuespoliciesatodds
with U.S. interests. Trump displayed an affinity to Russia and Putin in his
campaign, and Russia's leader has said Trump's election is a chance to restore
the relationship between the world powers.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             439 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Trump, Pence offer clues on Cabinet appointees;
President-elect may be looking outside immediate circle.;
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: By Catherine Lucey and Laurie Kellman

SECTION: ; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 573 words


President-elect Donald Trump is considering retired Marine Corps Gen. James
Mattis (right) for secretary of defense. Trump and his transition team are in
the process of filling Cabinet and other high level positions for the new
administration.

BEDMINSTER, N.J. - President-elect Donald Trump said Sunday that he had "made a
couple of deals" after spending the weekend meeting with a long list of
potential administration appointees, but he did not reveal any more picks.

Trump and the vice president-elect, Mike Pence, did drop some hints. Pence said
that Mitt Romney was "under active and serious consideration" to become the
nation's next secretary of state. Trump saidretiredMarineCorpsGen. James Mattis
was an "impressive" prospect for defense secretary.

"I think we have some really incredible people going to be working for the
country," Trump said Sunday evening. "We really had some incredible meetings.
You'll be hearing about them soon."

Among the visitors to the white-pillared clubhouse Sunday were Kansas Secretary
of State Kris Kobach, billionaire investor Wilbur Ross and retired Marine Gen.
John Kelly, the former commander of U.S. Southern Command.

Between conversations, Trump revealed he was making plans for transitioning his
family. He told reporters that his wife, Melania, and their 10-year-old son,
Barron, would move to Washington when the school year ends.

And Trump turned to Twitter to share some of his thinking. In between criticisms
of "Saturday Night Live," the hit musical "Hamilton," and Democrats, he wrote
that, "General James 'Mad Dog' Mattis, who is being considered for secretary of
defense, was very impressive yesterday. A true General's General!"

The comments were indications that Trump is looking outside his immediate circle
as he works toward rounding out his foreign policy and national security teams.
On Friday, he named a loyalist, retired Gen. Michael Flynn, as his national
security adviser.

Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 GOP presidential contender,
and Trump exchanged bitter insults during the campaign, and Mattis has not been
considered a Trump confidante. The appointment of more establishment figures
could offer some reassurance to lawmakers and others concerned about Trump's
hard-line positions on immigration and national security and his lack of foreign
policy experience.

Trump told reporters Sunday that one of his most loyal and public allies, former
New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, was also a prospect for secretary of state "and
other things." Giuliani at one point hadbeenconsideredforattorney general, but
Trump gave that job to Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama.

The businessman and president-elect also apparently was considering options to
lead the Commerce Department, meeting with Ross.

"Time will tell," Ross told reporters when asked if he wanted a post.

More meetings are on Trump's Monday schedule. His transition team said former
Texas governor and GOP presidential rival Rick Perry was expected to meet with
Trump today.

But even as Trump and his team discussed pressing issues facing the country and
how to staff the incoming administration, the president-elect's Twitter feed
suggested other issues too were on his mind.

HistargetsSundayincluded retiring Democratic leader Harry Reid. Trump tweeted
that incoming Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer, another media-savvy New
Yorker, was "far smarter" than Reid and "has the ability to get things done."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             440 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Union voters key to political shift;
Struggling workers in industrial Midwest supported Trump.;
CLOSER LOOK

BYLINE: ByJessica Wehrman

SECTION: ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 928 words


The United Steelworkers union endorsed Hillary Clinton, but many of its members
voted for Donald Trump.

WASHINGTON - One of the more stunning developments in what was already the
surprising victory of Republican Donald Trump in the presidential election was
the way the industrial Midwest fell like dominoes for him.

First, Ohio. Then Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Michigan, one week after the
election, still hadn't been called, but election officials said Trump looked
poised to win that state as well.

All four were strongholds for President Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012, in large
part because of strong union support. Indiana went for Obama in 2008, flipped to
the Republican column in 2012, and then made a more definitive statement on Nov.
8, when Hillary Clinton won just four counties and received less than 38 percent
of the vote.

Indiana has long been considered a red state, but the others have either been
reliably blue or a swing state going back many election cycles.

So what happened this year?

"The Democratic Party has lost its footing among working people and allowed the
Republican Party to become the party of the working class," said Robert Bruno,
director of the Labor Education Program at the University of Illinois-Chicago.
"And that's an astonishing thing to have to admit."

Bruno and other labor experts say the election results reflect an increasingly
fraught relationship between rank-and-file union members and Democrats. While
union leadership has stuck solidly with Democratic candidates, the rank and file
feels torn: They do not feel that eight years of a Democratic presidency fixed
what they had hoped it would fix.

"There was a lot of talk about how the economy has recovered and how the jobs
were better and the economy had turned around," said Kate Bronfenbrenner,
director of Labor Education Research at Cornell University's School of
Industrial and Labor Relations. "If you're a worker today, there are jobs out
there, but to support your family you have to work two of those jobs."

Median income is up, unemployment is down and there are more auto jobs than
there were eight years ago. But dig into the numbers and, said Bruno, "what you
end up seeing is a vast amount of jobs are not middle class jobs.

"The overwhelming percentage of the gains have gone to, if not the top one
(percent), the top 20 percent of income.... Economic decline has been the most
prominent characteristic of the lives of working class workers for decades now."

Trump is the product of the evolution of the economy and the failure of public
policy to lessen the pain felt by many working families, Bruno said.

"One candidate looked like more of the same and the other candidate had the
rhetoric that spoke to that pain," he said. "They gambled on the unknown."

Union split

Clinton secured the endorsement of labor union after labor union - the AFLCIO,
the Service Employees International Union, the American Federation of Teachers,
the United Autoworkers, the United Steelworkers and the Teamsters - but there
was a split within the ranks, according to Bruno.

This showed up in the Democratic primaries when many in the rank-and-file were
drawn to Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and his message of economic inequality, he
said. Trump continued that same message during the general election.

Union leadership tends to back the candidate thought to have the best chance of
winning, which is typically the centrist. But Bruno says there wasn't the same
enthusiasm for Clinton among the rank-and-file, which tamped down turnout on
Election Day and even sent some of those votes to Trump.

Exit polls on Nov. 8 showed a drop in Democratic support among voters in union
households over four years ago. In 2012, Barack Obama got about 58 percent of
that vote compared to 40 percent for Republican Mitt Romney.

This year, CNN's exit poll showed Clinton with 51 percent of the vote from those
in union households compared to 43 percent for Trump. In other words, she still
won the union vote, but Trump made a dent.

In Ohio it was more than a head-on collision. Trump, according to exit polls,
won 49 percent of the union vote compared to 44 percent for Clinton.

To put that into perspective, Obama received 60 percent of Ohio's union vote in
2012 while Romney received 37 percent.

Ohio AFL-CIO President Tim Burga said Trump "was speaking a language that hit on
an emotional level, even though Donald Trump has not led his life or has a
history or record of helping working people."

"We could tell that voters were unsure of Donald Trump," he said. "But we could
also sense they felt like a change election was what was being desired."

Shrinking base

Perhaps the most troubling sign for unions - and maybe Democrats too - is the
shrinking union base. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 17.7 million
Americans belonged to unions in 1983. By 2015, that number had fallen to 14.8
million.

Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, acknowledged that Trump's message was "appealing" to
many union members.

"Hillary reminded them of NAFTA," he said, referring to the North American Free
Trade Agreement that was negotiated by her husbandandisdespisedinmany union
households. "They didn't trust Hillary, in the end, to give us something
different. It was a change election in that way."

But Brown predicts the working-class infatuation with Trump will end quickly,
particularly if Democrats get behind policies that call for a higher minimum
wage, more generous family leave timeandnewovertimerules.
"We'vegottofightforthem," he said of the working class. "And if Donald Trump
does too, more power to him."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             441 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

What to watch;
Dow readies assault on 19,000 milestone

BYLINE: Adam Shell

SECTION: ; Pg. Z6

LENGTH: 232 words


Dow 19,000 has a nice ring to it. And the iconic blue chip gauge is edging ever
closer to that milestone.

After Monday's record-breaking day, when the Dow Jones industrial average,
large-company Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, tech-dominated Nasdaq composite
and the small-cap Russell 2000 all closed at record levels at the same time for
the first time since Dec. 31, 1999, the Dow is on the verge of making more
headlines and getting a mention on the evening news.

The Dow kicks off Tuesday's trading session less than 45 points, or 0.2%, away
from cracking the 19,000 barrier.

The assault on Dow 19,000 has taken nearly two years, or almost 700 days, since
it took out the 18,000 barrier on Dec. 23, 2014. It is on track for its slowest
climb from one 1,000-point level to the next since the nearly six years it took
the Dow to climb from 14,000 in July 2007 to 15,000 in May 2013. (That long
drought, of course, coincided with the Great Recession and the worst stock
market decline since the Great Depression.)

Dow 19,000 is the latest signal the rally sparked by Donald Trump's surprise
presidential election win is broadening as investors continue to bet on the
prospects for a more business-friendly administration.

Whether the bullish hype turns out to be the right trade remains to be seen, as
Trump has yet to get the keys to the White House or make one of his campaign
promises come true.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             442 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

Is it really over? Answers to some election questions;
Some states still counting, but results not likely to reverse

BYLINE: Richard Wolf

SECTION: ; Pg. Z1

LENGTH: 714 words


Election People stand Day in this line month outside in New a polling York
station . at Trump Place on

the Donald election Trump night supporters event at the gather New to York watch
Hilton early Midtown results during .

The presidential election is over. Or is it?

Two weeks after Election Day, Donald Trump is assembling his Cabinet while votes
in many states are still being counted. Hillary Clinton's lead in the popular
vote continues to grow. Michigan's 16 electoral votes remain up for grabs.

And so the question: How confident can Americans be in the results announced in
the wee hours of Nov. 9, given the problems that continue to beset our election
system? Here are some answers:

vote Q: ? Who won the electoral

A: As of Monday, Trump has 290 votes to Clinton's 232, with Michigan
outstanding. Even if Clinton wins there - a possibility despite Trump's lead
since election night - she still would trail, 290-248.

Among other states where the vote was close, only Florida could flip the
election. But Clinton trails there and in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin by too many
votes to trigger an automatic recount.

vote Q: ? Who won the popular

A: Clinton's lead of about 1.7 million votes continues to increase, largely from
an influx of absentee and provisional ballots being counted in California. She
has about 63.7 million votes to Trump's 62 million; her margin in California
alone is about 3.5 million.

ing Q counted : Where ? are votes still be-

A: Most states have yet to report official results, meaning they are counting
absentee or mail ballots or, more likely, deciding whether to count provisional
ballots. Those often are cast by voters whose names did not appear on
registration lists or who may have voted in the wrong place or lacked proper
identification.

long Q: ? Why does it take so

A: Millions of ballots come in at the last second - or, in states that allow it,
several days after the election with the proper postmarks. It takes money,
manpower and accurate voting machines to get every vote counted correctly.

"We vastly underfund the way in which we run our elections," says Michael
McDonald, a University of Florida associate professor who maintains a website on
the electoral system. "The bottom line is that you want to get the count right."

candidates Q: How close in are key the battle two - ground states?

A: Three thousand votes are all that separate Clinton and Trump in New
Hampshire. The margin is about 12,000 in Michigan, 27,000 in Wisconsin, 68,000
in Pennsylvania and 113,000 in Florida - close, but nothing compared with the
537 votes that separated George W. Bush and Al Gore in Florida 16 years ago.

recounted Q: Can ? the votes be

A: Several states, including Pennsylvania and Florida, require the vote
difference between the two candidates to be less than one-half of 1 percentage
point. In Michigan, a recount is triggered automatically if the margin is less
than 2,000 votes. None of those states is close enough at

moment.

sional Q: Is and it possible absentee that voting provi re sults Election vary
Day significantly ? from

A: Yes, but it's unlikely. Despite changes in voting laws in some states that
civil rights groups claim unfairly restrict minorities, the poor and elderly,
provisional votes that are accepted usually don't alter the results.

"The chances of changing tens of thousands of votes? That's just not going to
happen," says Hans von Spakovsky, a former Federal Election Commission member at
the conservative Heritage Foundation.

California Q: What ? 's the deal in

A: It's the largest state, and it has some of the most permissive voting
procedures.

More than half the state's votes are cast by absentee ballot, since no excuses
are necessary to avoid going to a polling place on Election Day. Provisional
ballots are treated more leniently than in many other states, requiring time to
correct mistakes that otherwise would cause votes to be rejected.

official Q: When ? will the results be

A: Eight states have certified their results; an additional four are due to do
so Tuesday. Nearly all will complete their counts by Dec. 13, in time for the
meeting Dec. 19 of the Electoral College - the 538 individuals who, usually
without exception, vote according to the results in each state. In some states,
the final count may come even later.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             443 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday

TODAY IN HISTORY;
Today is Tuesday, Nov. 22.

SECTION: ; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 533 words


TODAY'S HIGHLIGHT

On Nov. 22, 1963, John F. Kennedy, the 35th president of the United States, was
shot to death during a motorcade in Dallas; Texas Gov. John B. Connally, riding
in the same car as Kennedy, was seriously wounded; suspected gunman Lee Harvey
Oswald was arrested.

ON THIS DATE

In 1515, Mary of Guise, the second wife of King James V and the mother of Mary,
Queen of Scots, was born in Lorraine, France. In 1718, English pirate Edward
Teach - better known as"Blackbeard"- was killed during a battle off present-day
North Carolina. In 1890, French president Charles de Gaulle was born in Lille,
France. In 1914, the First Battle of Ypres during World War I ended with an
Allied victory against Germany. In 1928,"Bolero"by Maurice Ravel had its
premiere at the Paris Opera. In 1935, a flying boat, the China Clipper, took off
from Alameda, California, carrying more than 100,000 pieces of mail on the first
trans-Pacific airmail flight. In 1944, the MGM movie musical"Meet Me in St.
Louis,"starring Judy Garland, had its world premiere in St. Louis. In 1955,
comic Shemp Howard of"Three Stooges" fame died in Hollywood at age 60. In 1965,
the musical"Man of La Mancha"opened on Broadway. Singer-songwriter Bob Dylan
married Sara Lownds (the marriage lasted 12 years). In 1975, Juan Carlos was
proclaimed King of Spain. In 1989, Rene Mouawad was killed by a bomb after
serving 17 days as president of Lebanon. In 1990, British Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher, having failed to win re-election of the Conservative Party
leadership on the first ballot, announced she would resign. Ten years ago: A
chemical factory explosion in Danvers, Mass., destroyed the surrounding
neighborhood but caused no deaths or serious injuries. Five years ago: Baseball
players and owners signed an agreement for a new labor contract, a deal making
baseball the first North American professional major league to start blood
testing on human growth hormone and expanding the playoffs to 10 teams by 2013.
Soldier-turned-soap opera star J.R. Martinez and his professional partner,
Karina Smirnoff, were named champions of season 13 of ABC's"Dancing with the
Stars." One year ago: Trying to reassure a nation on edge, President Barack
Obama said in Malaysia that the Islamic State group"cannot strike a mortal blow"
against the U.S., and he warned that overreacting to the Paris attacks would
play into extremists'hands. Opposition candidate Mauricio Macri won Argentina's
presidential election, marking an end to the left-leaning era of President
Cristina Fernandez. Former South Korean President Kim Young-sam, 87, who led the
country's transition to democracy, died in Seoul. Actress and artist Adele
Morales Mailer, 90, died in New York. Novak Djokovic (NOH'-vak JOH'-kuh-vich)
won his fourth straight title at the season-ending ATP finals by beating
six-time champion Roger Federer 6-3, 6-4. Kyle Busch won his first career Sprint
Cup title claiming the season finale at Homestead-Miami Speedway. One Direction
won artist of the year at the American Music Awards.

TODAY'S THOUGHT

"Experience is not what happens to a man; it is what a man does with what
happens to him."- Aldous Huxley (1894-1963). Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             444 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Trump on Clinton email issue: It's time to let it go;
Though the matter falls under Justice Dept. jurisdiction, he's not inclined to
pursue it

BYLINE: Heidi M. Przybyla

SECTION: ; Pg. Z1

LENGTH: 830 words


Hillary fense Fund Clinton 's Beat is honored the Odds Nov Celebration . 16
during in the Washington Children' . s De-

During Donald Trump's successful White House campaign, his massive crowds
chanted, "Lock her up. Lock her up."

What he didn't say was that, as president, he would not have the authority to
appoint a special prosecutor to investigate Hillary Clinton, much less jail her,
as Trump threatened during a debate. That's the jurisdiction of the U.S. Justice
Department, which is supposed to work outside the influence of politics.

Now that he's won the election, the president-elect appears to be sending a
signal to Congress and perhaps even his incoming attorney general that it's no
longer politically beneficial to try to prosecute the former Democratic
presidential nominee.

Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway told MSNBC that the president-elect hopes
Congress will forgo further investigations of Clinton. "I think when the
president-elect, who's also the head of your party, tells you before he's even
inaugurated that he doesn't wish to pursue these charges, it sends a very strong
message, tone and content to the members" of Congress, Conway told MSNBC's
Morning Joe.

"He was brilliant in neutralizing the harsh negative attitudes towards himself
by making Hillary Clinton equally distasteful," said Larry Jacobs, a
presidential historian at the University of Minnesota. "Now he's shedding it
once in office because it would hurt him."

The belief among Trump's supporters that Clinton was a criminal who would end up
in jail was a powerful message in a campaign defined by harsh personal attacks
more than policy differences. Republican strategists said Trump was never
serious about putting his political opponent behind bars. "To Donald Trump, it
was more a chant to get her out of government," said Brad Blake-man, a former
senior staff member to President George W. Bush. Indeed, legal experts had
warned that, only under authoritarian regimes, can leaders unilaterally jail
political dissidents and opponents, and especially not under the United States'
carefully constructed democratic system of checks and balances and separation of
powers.

Trump may risk angering some of his most enthusiastic backers, many of whom
angrily taunted Clinton's motorcade with signs reading "Lock her up" in campaign
stops across the country. Judicial Watch, a group that's pursued many
investigations and lawsuits against the Clintons, responded with dismay to the
news. "If Mr. Trump's appointees continue the Obama administration's politicized
spiking of a criminal investigation of Hillary Clinton, it would be a betrayal
of his promise to the American people to 'drain the swamp' of out-of-control
corruption in Washington," Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton said in a
statement.

The investigation of Clinton's private email server was an outgrowth of a
special House committee to investigate the terror attacks in 2012 in Benghazi,
Libya. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy credited the inquiry with driving
down Clinton's poll ratings. The strategy became increasingly effective as
Republicans built up expectations that Clinton would be indicted by the FBI.
Director James Comey, a Republican, determined that "no reasonable prosecutor"
would press criminal charges based on the evidence. While Clinton enjoyed a
sizable lead in head-to-head polls, Republicans cried foul, and Trump ramped up
his complaints of a "rigged system."

"The investigation itself came out of a political atmosphere," said Julian
Zelizer, a presidential expert at Princeton University. "It was just trumped up
during the campaign itself. Obviously, some of his supporters might be angry
because they believed that chant. If he moves on to other issues, they will as
well."

During the campaign, Trump threatened Clinton repeatedly with further
investigation of her use of a private e-mail server as well as the fundraising
practices of the Clinton Foundation. During one of their debates, Trump told
her, "If I win, I am going to instruct my attorney general to get a special
prosecutor to look into your situation further."

After the election, Trump signaled he would not pursue Clinton or her husband,
former president Bill Clinton. "I don't want to hurt them," Trump said this
month on CBS' 60 Minutes. "They're good people. I don't want to hurt them."

During her MSNBC interview Tuesday, Conway said Clinton "still has to face the
fact that a majority of Americans don't find her to be honest or trustworthy,"
and "if Donald Trump can help her heal, then perhaps that's a good thing to do."

Jacobs, the historian, said calling off congressional investigators is "the
right thing to do" for Trump. "Donald Trump doesn't want to enter office with
the lowest approval rating of any president in history, and he's got to find a
way to get out from underneath the acrimony of the campaign and at least get a
little honeymoon," he said. "The opening few weeks have been rocky."

Contributing: David Jackson

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             445 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Electors say they're under siege;
by Republicans letter, email bombarded , phone to by switch thousands their vote
of pleas

BYLINE: Sanchez Joseph Gerth and Joseph , Yvonne Baucum Wingett

SECTION: ; Pg. Z1

LENGTH: 652 words


To supporters of Hillary Clinton, the number looks intoxicating: 155 electors in
states where the popular vote went for Donald Trump - some by slim margins - who
apparently aren't legally bound to vote for the GOP presidential nominee when
the Electoral College meets Dec. 19.

Solicit them like lobbyists schmooze members of Congress, right? Persuade just a
portion, and you've got the first woman president, winner of the popular vote,
certified by a constitutional authority. She's got 232 in the bag. She would
need 38 "faithless electors" to win this game.

That's the problem with this particular political fantasy. Though electors in
several states report that they're getting thousands of emails, letters and even
telephone calls to ask them to switch their votes, they're among the Republican
Party's most loyal members.

"I fully intend to vote for Donald Trump," said Jim Skaggs of Bowling Green,
Ky., one of that state's eight electors, who added that he really doesn't like
Trump. "It's not a law, I don't think. ... But I think it's a duty."

He's right. Kentucky is one of 28 states, according to the Congressional
Research Service and additional USA TODAY research, that don't mandate their
electors to vote for the winner of their state's popular vote. The Constitution
and federal law are silent on the matter.

More than 4.5 million supporters have signed a Change.org petition advocating
electors' change of heart, but the desire is little more than a pipe dream,
election experts said. Two Democratic electors in Colorado and Washington state,
where Clinton won the electoral votes and electors are obligated under state law
to vote for her, have launched their own movement that they've dubbed "Moral
Electors" to achieve the same result - or more likely throw the decision to the
House of Representatives as happened in 1824.

"This is a long shot. It's a Hail Mary," P. Bret Chiafalo of Everett, Wash.,
told Politico. "However, I do see situations where - when we've already had two
or three (Republican) electors state publicly they didn't want to vote for
Trump. How many of them have real issues with Donald Trump in private?"

Where Chiafalo sees a Hail Mary play, some electors consider the drama more as
harassment. "Hillary's got a great campaign going," said Sharon Geise, an
elector from Mesa, Ariz., who estimates 8,000 emails have flooded her inbox.
"It's the same thing, pretty much. Basically: Vote for Hillary Clinton. It's
bizarre. I don't dare answer my phone."

A dozen letters urging her to back anybody but Trump arrived at her home
Thursday. "She has to stop all of this," Geise said of Clinton. "This is
ridiculous."

It's not clear whether Clinton supports this movement. She conceded to Trump on
the day after the election.

In Florida, a faithless elector would be charged with a misdemeanor, prohibited
from casting an Electoral College vote and replaced, presumably with an
alternate more faithful to the popular-vote results in the state, said Franita
Tolson, a voting rights law professor at Florida State University. That
elector's political future within the GOP would be toast.

Historically, fewer than two electors per presidential election have changed
their votes because they didn't want the candidate on whose slate they ran,
according to FairVote.org, a District of Columbia-based non-partisan, nonprofit
group. The most recent was in 2004 and might have been a mistake.

Elector Susan Moore of Pensacola, Fla., has more than 800 emails, many of them
part of the same form letter, in her inbox.

"I think these people mean well," she said. "But they're asking us to do
something that's really not going to work out the way they want."

ville Joseph ) Courier Gerth - reports Journal for , Yvonne The (Louis Wingett -
public Sanchez and reports Joseph for Baucum The Arizona reports Re for - the
Contributing Pensacola : ( Isadora Fla.) News Rangel Journal , The

(Stuart, Fla.) News

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             446 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Trump retreats from some campaign vows;
President-elect says, 'I don't want to hurt the Clintons.';
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: By Michael D. Shear,Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Maggie Haberman

SECTION: ; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 755 words


NEWYORK - President-elect Donald Trump retreated on Tuesday from some of his
most extreme campaign promises, dropping his vow to jail Hillary Clinton,
expressing doubt about the value of torturing terrorism suspects and pledging to
have an open mind about climate change.

But in a wide-ranging, hourlong interview with reporters and editors at The New
York Times - which was scheduled, canceled and then reinstated after a dispute
over the ground rules - Trump was fiercely unapologetic about repeatedly
flouting the traditional ethical and political conventions that have long shaped
the American presidency.

He said he had no obligation to establish boundaries between his business empire
and his White House, conceding that the Trump brand "is certainly a hotter brand
than it was before." He defended Stephen K. Bannon, his chief strategist,
against charges of racism, calling him a "decent guy." And he savaged
Republicans who had failed to support him in his unorthodox White House bid.

After stoking cries of "Lock her up!" at campaign rallies by vowing to prosecute
Clinton, Trump expressed empathy toward his former rival. He said he has no
interest in pressing for Clinton's prosecution over her use of a private email
server or for potential financial misdealings by the Clinton Foundation.

"I want to move forward," he said. "I don't want to move back. I don't want to
hurt the Clintons, I really don't."

Some conservatives who have pushed for a prosecution may resist Trump's change
of heart. If Trump's appointees do not follow through on his pledge to
investigate Clinton for what he claimed were criminal violations, "it would be a
betrayal of his promise to the American people to 'drain the swamp' of
out-of-control corruption in Washington," said the group Judicial Watch.

T r u m p i n t h e i n te r-view also suggested he has changed his mind about
the usefulness of waterboarding and other forms of torture after talking with
James N. Mattis, a retired Marine Corps general who headed the U.S. Central
Command.

"He said, 'I've never found it to be useful,' " Trump said. He added that Mattis
found more value in building trust and rewarding cooperation by terror suspects:
" 'Give me a pack of cigarettes and a couple of beers and I'll do better.' " He
added: "I was very impressed by that answer."

On climate change, he refused to repeat his promise to abandon the international
climate accord reached last year in Paris, saying, "I'm looking at it very
closely." But he said, "I have an open mind to it" and that clean air and
"crystal clear water" were vitally important.

He held out assurances that he did not intend to embrace extremist positions in
some areas. He vigorously denounced a white nationalist conference in Washington
over the weekend where attendees, hailing his election, gave the Nazi salute,
criticized Jews and spoke some words in German.

Asked about his antagonism with the media and his vow to rethink libel laws, he
told the group, which included Times Publisher Arthur O. Sulzberger Jr., "I
think you'll be happy."

But pressed to respond to criticism in other areas, he was defiant. He declared
that "the law's totally on my side" when it comes to questions about conflict of
interest and ethics laws.

"The president can't have a conflict of interest," he said.

Trump said it would be extremely difficult to sell off his businesses because
they are real estate holdings. He said that he would "like to do something" to
address ethics concerns, and he noted that he had turned over the management of
the businesses to his children.

But he insisted that he could still have business partners into the White House
for grip-and-grin photographs. He said that critics were pressuring him to go
beyond what he was willing to do, including distancing himself from his children
while they run his businesses. "If it were up to some people," he said, "I would
never, ever see my daughter Ivanka again."

Trump rejected the idea that he was bound by federal anti-nepotism laws against
installing his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, in a White House job. But he said he
would want to avoid the appearance of a conflict, and might instead seek to make
Kushner a special envoy charged with brokering peace in the Middle East. "The
president of the United States is allowed to have whatever conflicts he or she
wants, but I don't want to do that," Trump said. But he said that Kushner, who
is an observant Jew, "could be very helpful" in reconciling the long-standing
dispute between the Israelis and the Palestinians.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             447 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Trump wants Farage as ambassador to U.S.;
British prime minister May says no to suggestion.;
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: By Gregory Katz

SECTION: ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 412 words


In August, then-Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump (right) welcomes
pro-Brexit British politician Nigel Farage to speak at a campaign rally in
Jackson, Miss. Trump would like Farage to be the U.K. ambassador to the U.S.

LONDON - Donald Trump has a plan for making the vaunted relationship between
Britain and the U.S. even more special: Make the impish acting leader of the UK
Independence Party, Nigel Farage, British ambassador in Washington.

Prime Minister Theresa May had another idea: Leave the appointment to the
British government, thank you very much.

Her representatives Tuesday quickly shot down Trump's extraordinarily
undiplomatic initiative, which the president-elect expressed in a tweet the
night before.

"Many people would like to see @Nigel_Farage represent Great Britain as their
Ambassador to the United States. He would do a great job!" Trump said.

The Farage farrago suggested that Trump and the British prime minister aren't
off to a warm start, and that, in the Trump era, Farage will be a force to be
reckoned with.

Trump's unusual effort to pressure the British government into naming Farage to
what is widely viewed as its most prestigious diplomatic post focused new
attention on the unorthodox UKIP figure who played a key role in convincing
British voters to leave the European Union in a June referendum.

Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and others said there was no way Farage would be
chosen - and some in Parliament had a few laughs at the prospect -
promptingawoundedFarage to accuse May and her Cabinet, members of the
Conservative Party, of living in the past and slowing down the Brexit process.
He said their personal dislike for him was hurting Britain.

"The world has changed and it's time that Downing Street did too," Farage said
on the pro-Trump Breitbart website.

Farage's words had a hard edge. He said "a new order" is taking over in
Washington, while in Britain the top players remain the same.

He complained that politicians who had favored keeping Britain inside the EU
bloc - a position favored by May before the referendum - remain in charge of
U.K. policies.

Taking an apparent swipe at the tousle-haired Johnson, who in the past called
Trump "out of his mind," Farage said politicians who once denounced Trump "now
pretend" to be his friend.

There is little question that Trump sees Farage as a potential friend.

Trump endorsed the Brexit movement even as it was opposed by President Barack
Obama and other global leaders.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             448 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Trump's charity admits to violating IRS ban;
Admissions made in tax filing's release after election.

BYLINE: By Chad Day and Michael Biesecker

SECTION: ; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 628 words


The charity has admitted it violated IRS regulations barring it from using its
money or assets to benefit Donald Trump, his family, his companies or
contributors.

WASHINGTON - P re si - dent-elect Donald Trump's charity has acknowledged that
it violated IRS regulations barring it from using its money or assets to benefit
Trump, his family, his companies or substantial contributors to the foundation.

The admissions by the Donald J. Trump Foundation were made in a 2015 tax filing
released after a presidential election in which it was revealed that Trump has
used the charity to settle lawsuits, make a $25,000
politicalcontributionandpurchase items such as a painting of himself that was
displayed at one of his properties.

The filing's release comes as the New York attorney general's office
investigates whether Trump personally benefited from the foundation's spending.

The 2015 tax filing was posted on the nonprofit monitoring website GuideStar on
Nov. 18 by someone using an email address belonging to the foundation's law
firm, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, said GuideStar spokeswoman Jackie Enterline
Fekeci.

In the tax filing, the foundation acknowledged that it used money or assets in
violation of the regulations not only during 2015, but in prior years. But the
tax filing doesn't provide details of the violations.

Questions sent via email t o T r u m p's t ra n s i t i o n team weren't
immediately answered Tuesday.

Marcus S. Owens, a partner at the Washington law firm Loeb & Loeb and a former
director of the IRS exempt organizations division, said the lack of detail in
the tax filing makes it difficult to determine the extent of the charity's
violations.

"There's no way to tell for sure whether the self-dealing is small and trivial
or large and a pattern of ongoing deliberate misuse of the charity's assets,"
Owens said.

Generally,hesaid,self-dealing violations require the violator to pay an excise
tax equal to 10 percent of the amount involved in the transactions. The violator
also would have to repay the foundation for the full amount involved. Owens
noted that self-dealing is a violation of New York state law, where the charity
is registered.

New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, a Democrat, launched an
investigation into the charity after reporting by the Washington Post drew
attention to some of the foundation's purchases, three of which are listed in
the latest filing: two portraits of Trump and a football helmet autographed by
former NFL quarterback Tim Tebow.

The Post reported that Trump bid $12,000 for the football helmet, and his wife,
Melania, bid $20,000 for one of the portraits. The other portrait, for which
Trump bid $10,000, has been hanging on a wall in a building at his golf course
in Doral, Fla,, according to the Post.

Despite the high price tags, the foundation's latest tax filing now values the
portraits and helmet at a combined $1,675. The tax filing does not specify if
any of the items are related to the self-dealing violations.

The foundation has previously said it amended its tax filings after it gave an
improper $25,000 check to a political committee supporting Florida Attorney
General Pam Bondi in 2013.

Charities are barred from engaging in political activities, and the
president-elect's staff says the check he signed was mistakenly issued following
a series of clerical errors. Earlier this year, the Trump Foundation paid a
$2,500 fine to the IRS over the check.

The latest tax filing shows two Trump entities gave to his foundation, a break
from recent years when the foundation's donations came mostly from other donors.

The Trump Corp. gave about $566,000 to the foundation, and Trump Productions
LLC, the company which produced "The Apprentice" and "Celebrity Apprentice,"
gave $50,000 in 2015.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             449 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Trump policy options in the Middle East;
TAKING A CLOSER LOOK

SECTION: ; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 806 words


Gilboa

Foreign policy issues in general, and those of the Middle East in particular,
received little attention during the recent presidential elections.
President-elect Donald Trump made a few statements about challenges in the
Middle East and American-Israeli relations, but these were very broad and lacked
focus.

Trump faces several huge challenges in the Middle East, including: the perceived
decline in American standing; the horrific civil war in Syria and the other wars
in Iraq, Yemen and Libya; the Russian intervention; the Iran nuclear deal and
quest for hegemony in the region; the military campaign to destroy the
territorial bases of the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq; the Turkish tilt
toward Islamic theocracy and efforts to prevent a Kurdish state; tense relations
with Egypt; and difficult Palestinian-Israeli relations.

Usually, incoming presidents, especially those from a party different to those
of outgoing presidents, like to adopt a different and sometimes vastly opposing
agenda and policies to those of their predecessors. Trump is likely to follow
this practice even more than other outgoing presidents. He severely criticized
President Barack Obama's foreign and national security policies, especially the
Iran nuclear deal, the battle against the Islamic State and the handling of
American-Israeli relations.

All American Arab allies and Israel would like to see a major shift in the
American strategic approach to the Middle East. Obama has left a serious
leadership vacuum in the region that was quickly filled by Russian President
Vladimir Putin. American allies expect Trump to restore American power and
influence in the region. Obama's policies have blurred the lines between allies
and enemies, and Trump is expected to clearly clarify who is a friend and who is
a foe.

American allies are still concerned about Iran's military and political
interventions in Syria, Iraq and Yemen, the nuclear deal, the development of
intercontinental ballistic missiles and the relations with Russia. Israel and
Egypt, whose relations with the Obama administration have been uneasy and tense,
would like to see a friendlier and better understanding environment in
Washington.

Trump defined the Iran nuclear deal as a "disaster" and "the worst deal ever
negotiated." He promised to cancel it. As Congress did not approve of the deal,
Trump has the authority to reverse it. Yet the deal was approved by the United
Nations Security Council and includes several useful restrictions. Trump may
much more closely monitor implementation of all the deal's articles, and more
aggressively deal with Iran's attempts to destabilize pro-Western governments in
the region. Iran is likely to test Trump's determination to limit its regional
aspirations.

Since the establishment of Israel, every American president has expressed a
desire to help resolve the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. Almost every American
president promised to move the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, Israel's
capital. Trump is no exception.

Obama applied heavy pressure on Israel in order to promote negotiations with the
Palestinians. This strategy failed. The Palestinians refused to negotiate
directly with Israel and they expected Obama to "deliver" Israel, so that they
will not have to make serious concessions in return for peace with Israel. Trump
said he wouldn't force negotiations or a "solution." The Palestinians may now
conclude that their best option is to seek an agreement via direct negotiations
with Israel. Trump is unlikely to move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem.

The U.S. and the Russian attempts to achieve a cease-fire in Syria failed. The
aggressive Russian intervention has broadened the conflict - they have bombed
the relatively liberal rebel groups, supported by the United States, more than
the Islamic State. Putin has acquired a reputation as a determined leader and a
reliable ally. One of his goals is to diminish U.S. standing in the region.

The increased Russian standing in the Middle East has direct effects on Putin's
policies in Europe - particularly in the ongoing Ukraine crisis. Trump was
described as Putin's "friend," and it remains to be seen how his relations with
the Kremlin will change the Russian behavior in Europe and the Middle East.

Trump will soon have to reassess the American interests in the Middle East, to
produce new and more effective ways to deal with the numerous challenges in a
way that will best balance resources and goals. The expectations for change are
very high - perhaps too high - and the margins for more errors and
disappointments are becoming narrower than they were a decade ago.

Eytan Gilboa, Ph.D., is Chair and Academic Director of the Israel Public Policy
Forum. He is leading a delegation of experts on Israel and the Middle East in
speaking dates around Ohio in the coming weeks.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             450 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

Pizzeria struggles to deal with fake news;
Online articles appear, lambast eatery, Clinton.

BYLINE: By Cecilia Kang

SECTION: ; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 1231 words


James Alefantis (left), owner of the pizzeria Comet Ping Pong, serves food to an
employee. Alefantis and his employees came under fire as false allegations
emerged claiming Hillary Clinton took part in a child trafficking ring at the
restaurant.

WASHINGTON - Days before the presidential election, James Alefantis, owner of a
local pizza restaurant called Comet Ping Pong, noticed an unusual spike in the
number of his Instagram followers.

Within hours, menacing messages like "we're on to you" began appearing in his
Instagram feed. In the ensuing days, hundreds of death threats - one read "I
will kill you personally" - started arriving via texts, Facebook and Twitter.
All of them alleged something that made Alefantis' jaw drop: that Comet Ping
Pong was the home base of a child abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton and her
campaign chief, John Podesta.

When Alefantis discovered that his employees were getting similar abusive
messages, he looked online to unravel the accusations. He found dozens of
made-up articles about Clinton kidnapping, molesting and trafficking children in
the restaurant's back rooms. The articles appeared on Facebook and on websites
such as The New Nationalist and The Vigilant Citizen, with one headline blaring:
"Pizzagate: How 4Chan Uncovered the Sick World of Washington's Occult Elite."

None of it was true. While Alefantis has some prominent Democratic friends in
Washington and was a supporter of Clinton, he has never met her, does not sell
or abuse children, and is not being investigated by law enforcement for any of
these claims. He and his 40 employees had unwittingly become real people caught
in the middle of a storm of fake news.

"From this insane, fabricated conspiracy theory, we've come under constant
assault," said Alefantis, 42, who was once in a relationship with David Brock, a
provocative former right-wing journalist who became an outspoken advocate for
Clinton.

Alefantis suspects that relationship may have helped to make him a target.

"I've done nothing for days but try to clean this up and protect my staff and
friends from being terrorized," he said.

Fake news online has been at the center of a furious debate for the past few
weeks over how it may have influenced voters in the presidential election.
President Barack Obama warned last week that we are "in an age where there's so
much active misinformation, and it's packaged very well" on social media sites.

The criticism has buffeted web companies such as Google and Facebook, whose
chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has promised to work on technology tools to
slow the gusher of false digital information.

But Alefantis' experience shows it is not just politicians and internet
companies that are grappling with the fake news fallout. He, his staff and
friends have become a new kind of private citizen bull's-eye for the purveyors
of false articles and their believers.

For more than two weeks, they have struggled to deal with the abusive social
media comments and to protect photos of their own children, which were used in
the false articles as evidence that the pizza restaurant was running a
pedophilia ring. One person even visited Comet Ping Pong to investigate the
allegations for himself.

To combat the fake news tide, Alefantis has contacted the FBI and the local
police, and he has asked Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Reddit to remove the
articles. Yet the misinformation has continued to spread, growing into a theory
known as #pizzagate that has traveled to Ireland. At one point, Comet's staff
counted five #pizza-gate Twitter posts a minute.

"It's like trying to shoot a swarm of bees with one gun," said Bryce Reh,
Comet's general manager, whose wife asked him to leave his job because of the
threats and vulgar messages they both have received on their social media
accounts.

Alefantis, an artist born and raised in Washington, co-founded Comet Ping Pong
10 years ago as a casual spot for clay oven pizza. The restaurant has
kid-friendly features like Ping-Pong tables and a craft room. Famous Washington
natives like members of the band Fugazi have held small shows there. The eatery,
which seats 120, is a mash-up of red-and-white checkered tablecloths and
modernist murals and paintings by friends of Alefantis.

Alefantis mingles with other Washington chefs and his establishment helped him
to be named No. 49 in GQ magazine's 50 most powerful people in Washington in
2012. His customers include some high-powered locals, such as Tony Podesta, the
brother of John Podesta, whom Alefantis knows casually. Alefantis and Brock, who
is the founder of Media Matters for America, a website that tracks press
coverage critical of the Clintons and works to debunk misinformation in the
conservative press, broke up five years ago.

The misinformation campaign began when John Podesta's email account was hacked
and his emails were published by WikiLeaks during the presidential campaign.
Days before the election, users on the online message board 4Chan noticed that
one of Podesta's leaked emails contained communications with Alefantis
discussing a fundraiser for Clinton.

The 4Chan users immediately speculated about the links between Comet Ping Pong
and the Democratic Party. Some posited the restaurant was part of a larger
Democratic child trafficking ring, which was a theory long held by some
conservative blogs. That idea jumped to other social media services such as
Twitter and Reddit, where it gained momentum on the page "The_Donald." A new
Reddit discussion thread called "Pizzagate" quickly attracted 20,000
subscribers.

Glen Caplin, a former campaign official for Clinton, did not comment directly
about Comet Ping Pong but said, "WikiLeaks has spawned several conspiracy
theories that have been independently debunked." Podesta did not respond to
requests for comment.

Soon, dozens of fake news articles on sites such as Face-book, Planet Free Will
and Living Resistance emerged. Readers shared the stories in Saudi Arabia and on
Turkish and other foreign language sites.

One supporter of the Pizzagate theory shot a video from within the restaurant
during a busy dinner shift. Local police, who had parked across the street after
Alefantis filed a report about the fake news stories and threats, told the man
to leave.

In a statement, the District of Columbia Metropolitan Police Department said it
was monitoring the situation and is "aware of general threats being made against
this establishment." The FBI said it "does not confirm or deny the existence of
investigations."

The frustration has been compounded by the lack of recourse for Alefantis, his
friends and employees. Yelp blocked the comments sections of Comet Ping Pong's
review page after reports of abusive comments and fake news in reviews. You-Tube
said it prohibits threats, harassment and hate speech and has tools for flagging
violations and filing complaints for the site to take further action, but has
largely not blocked comments on these videos. Twitter declined to comment, and
Facebook did not have any further comment.

After employees and Alefantis complained to Reddit about how Comet Ping Pong was
being targeted on the site, the #pizzagate discussion thread posted a warning
that revealing personal information about individuals was prohibited.

"We know that we have more work to do, and we take our responsibility to address
online abuse seriously," Reddit said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             451 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday

President-elect diversifies Cabinet;
Trump names two prominent Republican women to posts.;
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: Mark Landler and Maggie Haberman

SECTION: ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1058 words


President-elect Donald Trump, Vice President-elect Mike Pence and Betsy DeVos
pose for photographs at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in
Bedminster, N.J. Trump has chosen charter school advocate DeVos as Education
Secretary in his administration.

South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, President-elect Donald Trump's choice for
United Nations ambassador, has limited foreign policy experience. That's in
contrast to other U.N. ambassadors who had deep roots in international affairs
at the time of their nominations.

WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump named two prominent Republican women
to Cabinet posts on Wednesday, recruiting Betsy DeVos, a prominent Republican
philanthropist and educational activist, as education secretary and Gov. Nikki
Haley of South Carolina as ambassador to the United Nations.

Moving swiftly to diversify his Cabinet, Trump was also nearing an announcement
of Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who ran an outsider's campaign for the
Republican presidential nomination, as secretary of housing and urban
development.

DeVos and Haley would be the first women in Trump's Cabinet, while Carson would
be the first African-American.

Haley is Indian-American and a rising star in Republican politics. But none of
these choices suggest a president-elect who is reaching beyond reliably
conservative circles for his major policymakers.

A major Republican fund-raiser from Michigan, DeVos, 58, is a passionate
believer in school choice, a subject that she and Trump discussed last week when
she met him at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J. She is a member by marriage of
the DeVos family, the founders of Amway and one of the largest contributors to
the Michigan Republican Party.

"The status quo in education is not acceptable," DeVos said in a statement.
"Together, we can work to make transformational change that ensures every
student in America has the opportunity to fulfill his or her highest potential."

DeVos, a former finance chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, is one
of the nation's most avid proponents of school choice. That includes charter
schools, which are publicly funded but typically run independent of local school
boards and teachers' unions, and school vouchers, which give students tax
dollars to apply toward private school tuition.

In the three elections preceding 2016, members of her family gave nearly $9.5
million to party committees and candidates. But DeVos sharply criticized Trump
and spent much of the year raising money for other Republicans on the ballot.

"Until we have a better reason to embrace and support the top of the ticket, and
see an agenda that is truly an opportunity agenda, then we have lots of other
options in which to invest and spend our time helping," she said in May.

DeVos and her husband, Dick, have been the propelling force behind the rapid
expansion of charter schools in Michigan, as founders of the Great Lakes
Education Project. The state has one of the most generous charter school laws in
the nation, allowing an unusually large number of colleges, universities, and
school districts to grant charters, with little state oversight.

An unusually high percentage of the charters - about 80 percent - are operated
for profit. In Detroit, which has the nation's second-highest share of students
in charter schools, the charters have been characterized by a high churn of
students and teachers, as well as the companies that operate the schools. Even
groups that support charters have pushed to establish stricter oversight, but
legislation to do so failed last spring, largely because of lobbying by the
DeVos' group.

Lily Eskelsen Garcia, president of the National Education Association,
criticized the selection in a statement emailed to reporters, saying DeVos' work
over the years had "done more to undermine public education than support
students."

"She has lobbied for failed schemes, like vouchers - which take away funding and
local control from our public schools - to fund private schools at taxpayers'
expense," Garcia said. "These schemes do nothing to help our most vulnerable
students, while they ignore or exacerbate glaring opportunity gaps."

Despite such pushback, Trump's selection of DeVos, Haley and Carson could blunt
criticism that his early picks have come from a homogeneous group of older white
men.

If she is confirmed, Haley will step down as governor and be replaced by the
state's lieutenant governor, Henry McMaster, who was an early and vocal
supporter of Trump.

Carson would be the first African-American member of Trump's Cabinet - and a
familiar face to millions of Americans after a Republican primary campaign in
which he briefly soared to the top of the polls. It was not clear whether Carson
had accepted the offer.

Haley and Carson have no particular experience relating to the posts they have
been offered. Carson had even seemed to take himself out of the running for a
Cabinet position last week, with his friends putting out word that he had
concluded that he was not qualified to run a vast federal bureaucracy.

Haley supported Sen. MarcoRubioofFloridaduring the Republican primaries, and,
like DeVos, was a prominent and frequent critic of Trump early in his run. That
criticism was thought to have kept her off Trump's list of vice-presidential
candidates, although her name was mentioned before he chose Gov. Mike Pence of
Indiana.

In recent days, Trump has begun meeting with a wider array of prospects, either
for advice or as potential Cabinet picks. He is also said to be considering
Harold Ford Jr., an African-American former Democratic representative from
Tennessee, as transportation secretary, or for another post, though those talks
have not become serious, according to an official close to the Trump transition.

Trump also met with Michelle Rhee, the former superintendent of schools in
Washington, and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, the Hawaii Democrat who is the first Hindu
member of Congress.

Until Wednesday, however, his appointments had consisted of five white men:
Stephen K. Bannon as chief strategist in the White House, Reince Priebus as
chief of staff, Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama as attorney general, Rep. Mike
Pompeo of Kansas as director of the CIA, and Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn as
national security adviser. He is rumored to be close to naming Gen. James N.
Mattis as secretary of defense.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             452 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

5 CRISES THAT COULD CONFRONT TRUMP'S FOREIGN POLICY TEAM

BYLINE: USA TODAY Editors

SECTION: ; Pg. Z3

LENGTH: 571 words


President-elect Donald Trump is assembling a foreign policy team that will face
a series of major tests that could produce diplomatic successes or degenerate
into damaging crises if mishandled. So far he has tapped retired Army general
Michael Flynn as his national security adviser and South Carolina Gov. Nikki
Haley as his U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. He also is considering
former presidential candidate Mitt Romney for secretary of State and retired
Marine Corps general James Mattis for Defense secretary. Here are five bubbling
issues that may force the new team to scramble for solutions:

IRAN'S NUCLEAR DEAL:

Scenario: Trump acts on his campaign pledge to renegotiate the deal. Potential
crisis: Iran says it is free to resume its nuclear program without restraints,
Israel threatens to destroy any weapons development sites, and five other world
powers who signed the accord refuse to go along with Trump. Challenge for Trump:
Stick to his pledge to "rip up" the deal or accept it and use the verification
provisions to make sure Iran complies with all the terms for limiting its
program to peaceful purposes.

NORTH KOREA'S TESTS

Scenario: Unpredictable North Korean leader Kim Jong Un conducts another nuclear
or missile test to see how Trump reacts. Potential crisis: A rash response by
the Trump administration could provoke the erratic Un to up the ante by
threatening military action against South Korea and Japan or by kidnapping
Americans who venture into North Korea. Challenge for Trump: Ratchet up the
crisis by threatening retaliation or go the diplomatic route by pressing China
to use its clout to rein in the North Korean dictator.

SYRIA'S CIVIL WAR

Scenario: Russian President Vladimir Putin reads Trump's conciliatory remarks as
a green light to go all out to help Syrian President Bashar Assad prevail in his
brutal 5-year-old civil war. Potential crisis: A victorious Assad lets Russia
establish a permanent military base in the Middle East, Assad's success expands
the influence of close ally Iran in the region, and a new tide of refugees who
opposed the Syrian strongman flee to Europe, which already is inundated with
migrants. Challenge for Trump: Let Russia help Assad prevail or continue
President Obama's support of rebels to pressure Assad to step down in favor of a
diplomatic settlement.

CHINA'S TRADE

Scenario: China responds to Trump's campaign threat to place tariffs on Chinese
imports by threatening to impose its own tariffs on U.S. imports and dump
billions worth of U.S. Treasury bonds it holds. Potential crisis: The world's
two largest economies face a crippling trade war, and financial markets crash.
Challenge for Trump: Stick to his campaign pledge to prod China to curb imports,
risking market volatility and a recession, or accept the status quo and pursue
longer-term talks aimed at finding more favorable trade terms for the USA.

UKRAINE'S CONFLICT

Scenario: Russia helps separatists make a new push for independence in eastern
Ukraine on the belief that Trump's pro-Putin leanings suggest he won't
intervene. Potential crisis: Renewed fighting erupts, and Ukraine's national
government seeks U.S. weapons and new sanctions imposed on Russia. Challenge for
Trump: Come to ally Ukraine's aid and risk a proxy war with Russia, continue
Obama's use of sanctions and diplomatic pressure to restrain Russia or follow
his isolationist instincts and say it's not a U.S. problem.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             453 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

TRUMP ENJOYS 'HONEYMOON' WITH RUSSIANS;
A third of survey respondents call the New York billionaire possible 'best
president ever'

BYLINE: Kim Hjelmgaard

SECTION: ; Pg. Z1

LENGTH: 601 words


As elect a candidate Donald Trump , President expressed - President his
admiration Vladimir for Russian Putin.

MOSCOW Donald Trump's election has sparked shock, revulsion and protests around
much of the world. But in Russia, the president-elect is being embraced with
widespread approval.

In fact, many here think he'll be one of the best American presidents ever.

Just less than half of those surveyed after the U.S. election by VTSIOM, a
state-run research center, said that if given the opportunity, they would have
voted for the billionaire New York businessman. Only 4% said they would have
backed Democrat Hillary Clinton, who took a hard line against Russia during her
tenure as secretary of State.

The survey found that about a third of Russians think Trump will likely go on to
become one of the best presidents in U.S. history.

"Trump is a huge advantage for Russia," said Muscovite Gleb Samorukov. "It's
clear Trump's willing to figure out some of the problems we have between our two
countries."

Samorukov said he believes Russia is doing its best to resolve differences with
the U.S. over Russia's annexation of Crimea and its backing of separatists in
eastern Ukraine, as well as disagreements about how to deal with the civil war
in Syria and President Bashar Assad.

President Obama has had tense relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin
since Russia's intervention in neighboring Ukraine in 2014, a move that prompted
Western sanctions against Russia.

The two men also have clashed over Syria's war: Russia's military is supporting
Assad against rebel groups, while Obama is supporting some of those rebels and
wants the Syrian leader to step down because of brutal attacks on civilians.

In another flash point, U.S. intelligence agencies allege that the Russian
government tried to interfere in the U.S. election by hacking into the email
accounts of the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee, a charge
Putin denies.

By contrast, candidate Trump praised Putin's strong leadership style and
promised after his election to improve relations with a country that had been
the United State's longtime Cold War rival.

"It's definitely changed the atmosphere for the good," said Ian Artemey, an
economics student from St. Petersburg. "I like him."

Russians also like Putin - a lot, if state-run media and polls can be believed.
His approval ratings have soared amid the increase in tensions with the U.S.,
reaching an all-time high of nearly 90% in October, VTSIOM found.

Mark Galeotti, an expert on Russia at the Institute of International Relations
in Prague, said Putin appears more comfortable with a Trump presidency, at least
for now.

"There is inevitably a degree of delight at seeing the obvious dismay (about
Trump's election) among U.S. allies, especially in Europe," Galeotti said.
"There are some prospects economic sanctions might be lifted or moderated, and
on this issue, where Washington leads, the Europeans will certainly follow."

Long term, though, Trump is not necessarily what Russia's government would have
wanted and could worry the Kremlin, Galeotti said. "Putin has capitalized on his
ability to break the rules and get in the West's face, relying on our
willingness to broker compromise. With Trump, there is much less certainty this
will be the case," he said.

Trump's "evident dislike of entangling alliances, his half-heartedness toward
NATO, may well worry Europe enough that it takes its security much more
seriously," Galeotti added. "We could see European defense budgets growing and
the European Union becoming more directly involved in defense coordination."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             454 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Final local vote numbers certified;
Donald Trump won every county in Dayton metropolitan region.;
ELECTION 2016

BYLINE: ByAnthony Shoemaker and Will Garbe

SECTION: ; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 447 words


President-elect Donald Trump won every county in the Dayton metropolitan area in
the Nov. 8 presidential election.

Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton won the popular vote with
supporters in urban clusters.

President-elect Donald Trump won every county in the Dayton metropolitan area in
the Nov. 8 election, according to official election results filed Wednesday by
local boards of elections. Trump edged out Hillary Clinton by 1,893 votes in the
results certified by the Montgomery County Board of Elections, the closest
county in the region. Unofficial numbers after Election Day showed Trump with a
3,105 vote lead. Trump won the county with 123,909 votes to 122,016 for Clinton.
Trump is the first Republican since then-Vice President George H.W. Bush in 1988
to win Montgomery County. Voter turnout this year was high across the region.
Montgomery, Greene, Miami, Preble, Warren, Clark, Darke and Mercer counties all
had turnout above 70 percent of registered voters. Turnout locally was highest
in Shelby County where more than 89 percent of registered voters cast ballots.
Elections officials said the 2016 elections process was "smooth and seamless"
and thanked the voters for participating in the presidential election. "When you
walk into a ballot booth, everybody's equal, everybody's the same," said
Montgomery County Board of Elections Member Tom Young. The final presidential
results in other local counties:

Warren County

Trump 77,643 (65.6%) Clinton 33,730 (28.5%)

Greene County

Trump 48,540 (58.5%) Clinton 28,943 (34.9%)

Miami County

Trump 37,079 (69.8%) Clinton 13,120 (24.7%)

Clark County

Trump 35,205 (56.9%) Clinton 23,328 (37.7%)

Preble County

Trump 15,446 (74.7%) Clinton 4,325 (20.9%)

Darke County

Trump 20,012 (78.2%) Clinton 4,470 (17.5%)

Shelby County

Trump 18,590 (78%) Clinton 4,243 (17.8%)

Mercer County

Trump 17,506 (80.2%) Clinton 3,384 (15.5%)

Trump's margin in Ohio highest since '88

Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted's office is not expected to finalize numbers
with the boards of election until next week, according to press secretary Joshua
Eck.

According to unofficial results in the state, Trump won 52 percent of the vote
and Clinton won 44 percent.

Clinton only won seven counties in the state - Hamilton (Cincinnati), Franklin
(Columbus), Athens, Mahoning (Youngstown), Summit (Akron), Cuyahoga (Cleveland)
and Lucas (Toledo).

In 2012, President Barack Obama won the state taking 17 counties including the
most populous ones and most in the north and northeastern counties along Lake
Erie.

Trump's win in Ohio have him the biggest victory for any candidate since 1988
when Bush defeated Democrat Michael Dukakis in the state 55 percent to 44
percent.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             455 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Post-election, a helpful look at voting law and sanctity;
TAKING A CLOSER LOOK

BYLINE: By Gregory M. Gantt

SECTION: ; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 643 words


Now that the 2016 presidential election is over, some are happy and some are sad
- and many are still questioning the voting process in light of recent hackings,
WikiLeaks, allegations of machines "flipping" votes, and claims of rigging. The
process of conducting elections has evolved into a full-time, highly technical
profession.

Over three decades, I spent many years over different terms as a board member
and chairman of the Montgomery County Board of Elections. I worked with both
Republican and Democrat secretary of state administrations, and helped to usher
in the transition from punch cards to electronic voting machines, and the
implementation of early voting and voting by mail.

There are so many moving parts to an election that it is important to understand
the process and safeguards in place to ensure a fair and accurate result. In
Ohio, each county has its own BOE that operates under state law and the
direction of the secretary of state. The board members and their employees must
be equally represented by both major political parties. Every step of the
process involves at least one Republican and one Democrat. The data cards and
other sensitive voter information are securely stored in a room that requires a
Republican key and a Democratic key to open.

Contrary to common misperception, votes are not transported to a central
computer for tabulation via the Internet. Physical data cards are removed from
each voting machine with a paper record of every vote cast and driven to the BOE
by a Democrat and Republican who, believe it or not, ride together in the same
car on election night. Upon arrival, they are received by members of both
parties and the data cards are delivered to a secure room where members of both
parties process the tabulations. Only the results, after tabulation, are
disseminated online.

The voting machines are constantly checked and re-checked. An audit of randomly
selected machines is conducted after every major election, where representatives
of both parties hand count the physical paper record of the votes from a machine
and compare the totals to the electronic data card for that machine.

The people hired to work the polls must be from both parties. Registered
observers from both parties and the media may obtain credentials to watch the
process at every polling location and at the BOE. Observers and the media may
watch, but not touch, access or influence the counting.

If a person arrives on Election Day seeking to vote who is not listed in the
system at the polling location, they are permitted to cast a provisional ballot.
Their ballot is placed into an envelope and delivered to the BOE that night.
Bipartisan staff double check to make sure the person is registered and that
they have not already voted. If everything is in order and the bipartisan board
members agree, the vote is counted. If there appears to be an attempt at fraud,
the matter is referred for investigation.

Thousands of dedicated professional election officials and employees from both
parties work all year to ensure a fair process and embody the motto of Secretary
of State Jon Husted: "Easy to vote, hard to cheat."

In our modern-day cyber world, the adage, "It's not a question of if you will be
hacked, it's a question of when," certainly can apply to elections. However, if
we all can appreciate the extent to which safeguards are in place, the
bipartisan effort that occurs at every step of the process, the paper back-up
system for each voting machine, the opportunity to observe the entire process,
and the post-election auditing, we can maintain confidence in our system of
elections.

Elections are not perfect and incidents happen, but rest assured that a vigilant
system is in place to protect the sanctity of your vote and correct wrongdoing.

Gregory M. Gantt is a Dayton-area attorney with expertise in election law.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             456 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

Stein raises $2 million for recounts;
Group questions results in three states won by Trump.

BYLINE: By Mari A. Schaefer

SECTION: ; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 179 words


Stein

Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein has raised $2 million for
recounting votes in three Rust Belt states won by Donald Trump.

Stein's campaign quickly reached the $2 million goal and has increased the
target to $4 million to pursue the recounts, NBC reported.

A group of prominent computer scientists and election

lawyers

this week questioned whether

the results in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin were manipulated or hacked.

The deadlines to file for recounts are today in Wisconsin, Monday in Michigan
and Wednesday in Pennsylvania.

"After a divisive and painful presidential race, reported hacks into voter and
party databases and individual email accounts are causing many Americans to
wonder if our election results are reliable. These concerns need to be
investigated before the 2016 presidential election is certified. We deserve
elections we can trust," Stein stated on her website.

Officials in Hillary Clinton's campaign, however, were concerned that the issue
would disrupt the transfer of power or cause further unrest over Trump's win,
NBC reported.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             457 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 25, 2016 Friday

4 precincts reflect election's swing;
Voters in Harrison Twp., Riverside helped GOP win Montgomery County first time
in 28 years.;
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: By Katie Wedell

SECTION: ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 861 words


Homes in Riverside still display Trump/Pence signs a week after the election.

Harrison Twp. voting precinct C was one that swung from majority support for a
Democrat, President Barack Obama in 2012, to a win for Republican Donald Trump
on Nov. 8.

In a quiet Harrison Township neighborhood nestled between North Dixie Drive and
Interstate 75 sits Division Avenue - aptly named this election season.

Tim Winterbotham had a campaign sign in his yard supporting Donald Trump that he
claims someone burned. Two doors down, Walt Lough had a Hillary Clinton sign
that he said was stolen.

The neighborhood is part of the large, diverse voting precinct Harrison-C, one
of several in Montgomery County that swung from majority support of President
Obama in the last election to picking President-elect Donald Trump on Nov. 8.

An analysis of voting data by the Dayton Daily News found four precincts where
Obama won or tied in 2012 that saw close to 20-point shifts to the right two
weeks ago. These precincts helped secure the first win of Montgomery County for
a Republican presidential candidate in 28 years.

Lough said he has no idea why people would have switched from voting for Obama
to supporting Trump.

"Clinton was the only choice," he said. He worries about the U.S. maintaining
good relationships with foreign nations under a Trump presidency.

But Winterbotham thinks people are fed up with the liberal agenda they've seen
with Obama and weren't going to put up with the corruption they saw Clinton
representing. He said he talked to neighbors who were very concerned about the
response to the terrorist attack on a U.S. embassy in Benghazi while Clinton was
secretary of state.

"They said this is the last person we need being commander in chief," he said.
"People were just sick of it and they just did not want a criminal leading this
country." He referenced investigations into Clinton's use of a private email
server for which she has not been criminally charged.

Although ideologically different, and representing different political parties,
Obama and Trump had some things in common that may explain this dramatic shift,
said Mark Caleb Smith, director of Cedarville University's Center for Political
Studies.

"They both were promising change," Smith said. "And so they voted for Barack
Obama because they still thought of him as the change tion to majority
Republican this year, but there were some people who simply liked Obama and
didn't like Clinton.

Pearson is one of them.

"She was starting to sound more like her husband ... with the emails, it sounded
like she was backpedaling," Pearson said.

For her, trust was an issue. Trump, though brash, came off as in your face and
saying exactly what he meant, she said.

Fewer votes cast

In all four of the precincts the newspaper examined there were fewer registered
voters than in 2012 and fewer total votes cast.

In Harrison-C there were 225 fewer registered voters than four years ago, and
only 45 percent cast a ballot, compared to 50 percent in 2012.

The drop in registered voters could also be attributed to turnover in rental
units. Harrison-C is a sprawling precinct that includes hundreds of
single-family homes, but also the large, government-subsidized Northland Village
apartments.

Clinton's campaign, Smith said, was never able to replicate the grassroots
mobilization to get people registered and to the polls that Obama's campaigns
achieved.

Mindy Wagers was one Clinton supporter who didn't vote. The young mother of two
small children lives in the Overlook Mutual Homes complex. She feels like her
vote doesn't count, citing the fact that Clinton won the popular vote but not
the presidency.

"I decided not to vote because, honestly, if voting mattered they wouldn't let
us do it," she said.

Contact this reporter at 937-328-0353 or email Katie.

Wedell@coxinc.com

candidate. Donald Trump represented the most significant change in this
election."

Smith also noted that Trump's celebrity status and name recognition may have
contributed to his success.

"Montgomery County going Republican is odd, based on recent history," he said,
but it will take several elections to determine if this is a trend or if voters
will continue to swing to whatever side presents the most dynamic candidate. ing
by the federal government in 1943, but has been owned by the tenants since the
late 1950s. Neighbors say the more than 700 apartments are occupied by a mixture
of longtime residents and short-term tenants.

"There's a few of us that have been here for a while," said Paula Pearson, who's
lived in her home on Eisenhower Drive for 15 years. She's watched people come
and go from half the units on her street in the past year.

"They stay here for a year or two before they can get some money saved up and
then they go and either buy a home or move and rent a bigger home."

Turnover of tenants may have contributed to the large shift from a majority
Democrat vote there in the 2012 presidential elec-

Who to trust?

The Riverside-H precinct encompasses the Overlook Mutual Homes, a privately
owned cooperative of multi-unit buildings off Airway Road near Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base.

The neighborhood was built as emergency war hous-

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             458 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Trump backers target Soros;
Billionaire activist accused of financing post-election protests

BYLINE: Dawn Chmielewski

SECTION: ; Pg. Z1

LENGTH: 1057 words


Soros George Fund Soros Management , chairman of , is a champion of liberal
causes.

Protester Nov. 16. Approximately Phoenix Singer 100 , second students from at
right Portland , leads State a chant University before he joined and a others
nationwide march campus through walkout the streets to protest in Portland
Donald , Ore Trump ., on .

Billionaire investor and philanthropist George Soros has become a target of
Donald Trump supporters, who began organizing protests against the prominent
Democratic donor they accuse of contributing to civil unrest in the wake of the
elections.

The Hungarian-born investor, a Jew who survived the Nazi occupation during World
War II and committed about $12 billion of his fortune to human rights work
around the world, has long been a lightning rod for conservatives for his
support of liberal causes.

Trump voters and conspiracy theorists see Soros' hand - and wallet - in the
protests that raged across the country in the days after the election. It's a
claim of financial support Soros' Open Society Foundations disavows.

"At the end of the day, it seems like he's sending groups to create chaos and
disorder for no reason," said Rochelle Winther of Los Angeles, who circulates
information about him on social media, concerned that Soros promotes hate
through protests. "I don't see how that helps anybody."

Soros has been lampooned on social media platforms such as Twitter and
Instagram. He became the focus of organized campaigns in less visible corners of
the Internet, where members of the bulletin board 8chan discussed exposing "all
heads of the George Soros Hydra."

Members of one Reddit subgroup devoted to jailing Soros plan protests against
Soros on Saturday, demonstrating in front of the Manhattan offices of Soros Fund
Management and the New York City and Baltimore offices of his New York-based
philanthropic group, the Open Society Foundations.

The Open Society Foundations says the notion that Soros pays anti-Trump
protesters is fiction, but there are so many protests organized by so many
groups, it's possible some groups the philanthropist supports may have been
involved in the protests.

"There have been many false reports about George Soros and the Open Society
Foundations funding the protests that have erupted since the U.S. presidential
elections. There is no truth to these reports," Foundations President Chris
Stone said. "The only initiative we are planning to fund related to the
elections is to respond to hate crimes and speech."

The Open Society Foundations pledged $10 million this week to fight hate crimes.
The organization said it spends about $500 million annually supporting groups
that promote human rights, democracy and justice.

One grant recipient, the nonprofit investigative news organization ProPublica,
partnered with USA TODAY on election night coverage. Gannett board member
Stephen Coll, dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism,
chairs the Open Society U.S. Programs board.

Conservative commentator Michelle Malkin described Soros as occupying the center
of gravity for the liberal funding universe for years.

Reports that cast the billionaire in the vanguard of rich liberals who've
pledged to fight the Trump administration's agenda from Day One may make him a
renewed target, she said.

"Clearly he's going to be back in a position of leading the liberal opposition -
and they've made their intentions known," Malkin said. "They want to be the
biggest thorn in the side of the Trump administration. Probably that's where
this is coming from."

COUNTERING CONSERVATIVES

This isn't the first time Soros has been painted as a villain.

The financier became known as the "man who broke the Bank of England" for his
high-stakes bet in 1992 that the British pound would be devalued (he netted a
profit of about $1 billion through his currency speculation).

Soros landed on the Republican radar during the 2004 presidential election
cycle, when he emerged as a counterweight to the GOP's billionaire benefactors,
the Koch brothers.

He spent nearly $24 million in political contributions to Democratic groups in
an effort to defeat George W. Bush, according to research by the Center for
Responsive Politics.

Since then, Soros has emerged as the boogeyman for the political right.

Conservative television host Glenn Beck described him in a series of hour-long
commentaries in 2010 as a shadowy political "puppet master" who manipulates
unions, the Democratic Party and the Obama White House. Beck suggested he was
somehow complicit in the Holocaust.

Nationally syndicated radio talk show host and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones,
who called the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre a hoax, labeled Soros this
week as "fundamentally evil."

"George Soros has spent his life and his fortune promoting justice and human
rights around the world," Soros' spokesman Michael Vachon said. "The alt-right
has manufactured conspiracy theories and delusional narratives to spread their
false propaganda."

Soros became the focus of renewed attention, and in some quarters, outrage,
within days of Trump's election. The conservative news site Breitbart drew
attention to a news release from MoveOn.org that urged Americans to turn out
Nov. 9 in a rejection of the president-elect's "bigotry, xenophobia,
Islamophobia and misogyny."

By the next day, sites such as The Free Thought sought to connect Soros to the
unrest, noting that MoveOn has been a recipient of the Open Society Foundations'
philanthropy. MoveOn, which is best known for its online petitions and
organizing, said it was involved in organizing a single day of demonstrations.

BIG MONEY

It's not just traditional conservatives who are suspicious of the influence of
big-money political donors such as Soros, commentator Malkin said. It's also
voters who were attracted to the anti-establishment candidacy of Vermont Sen.
Bernie Sanders.

"Citizens are skeptical of the influence big donors wield in American politics -
whether it's George Soros on the left or the Koch brothers on the right," said
Mason Harrison, a veteran of Gov. Mitt Romney's and Sen. John McCain's
presidential campaigns, who works for a Silicon Valley start-up called Crowdpac,
which tracks political donations. "It's one of the reasons we've seen a sea
change in small-dollar donors this election cycle; Americans want their
democracy back."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             459 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday

Trump adds security adviser, counsel;
Green Party candidate moves to force recounts; discord reported over secretary
of state choice.;
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: By Steve Peoples and Todd Richmond

SECTION: ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 819 words


Fox News analyst Kathleen Troia "KT" McFarland will serve as deputy national
security adviser.

Donald McGahn, a Washington election lawyer, will serve as White House counsel.

MADISON,WIS. - President-elect Donald Trump pressed forward Friday with two more
administration picks, as failed Green Party candidate Jill Stein took new steps
to force recounts across key Midwestern battlegrounds that could complicate
Trump's push for national unity.

Stein, who earned little more than 1 percent of the national vote, formally
requested a Wisconsin recount Friday afternoon, vowing to do the same in the
coming days in Michigan and Pennsylvania. There is no evidence of election
tampering in the states where Trump scored razor-thin victories, but Green Party
spokesman George Martin insisted "the American public needs to have it
investigated to make sure our votes count."

"We're doing this to ensure the integrity of our system," he said.

Trump's team ignored questions about the looming recounts. Set to assume the
presidency in 55 days, he was focused instead on the daunting task of building
an administration from scratch.

Gathered with family at his Mar-a-Lago Palm Beach estate for the holiday
weekend, the incoming president made two senior-level staff appointments and
scheduled meetings with several more prospective administration officials.

He tapped Fox News analyst Kathleen Troia "KT" McFarland to serve as deputy
national security adviser and campaign attorney Donald McGahn as White House
counsel. In a statement, Trump cited McFarland's "tremendous experience and
innate talent" and said McGahn "has a brilliant legal mind, excellent character
and a deep understanding of constitutional law."

Having faced criticism about the inexperience of his initial picks, Trump finds
in McFarland someone who previously worked under three presidents, although none
since Ronald Reagan. McGahn, a veteran Republican election lawyer, served as
Trump's attorney during the campaign.

Neither position requires Senate confirmation.

Trump transition spokesman Sean Spicer said the president-elect scheduled Monday
meetings with eight more prospective administration hires, a group that includes
several business leaders, Pennsylvania Rep. Lou Barletta, and David Clarke, the
Wisconsin sheriff who is an aggressive opponent of the Black Lives Matter
movement.

Facing external pressure from Stein, there were also signs of internal discord
within the president-elect's small inner circle as Trump weighed his choices for
secretary of state.

The options for the nation's chief diplomat include former New York City Mayor
Rudy Giuliani, who lacks foreign policy experience but was intensely loyal to
Trump, and 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who aggressively
opposed Trump's candidacy but is largely regarded as more qualified.

Trump spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway took the unusual step of shining light on the
controversy over the Thanksgiving holiday, tweeting that she had been "receiving
a deluge of social media & private concerns re: Romney Some Trump loyalists warn
against Romney as sec of state."

M e a nw h i l e , S te i n announced on her website she has raised enough money
to fund recounts in Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and was pursuing additional
funding to do the same in Michigan.

Trump'sNov.8victorywas unexpected and historic, by some measures.

Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2
million votes. Trump scored narrow victories in key battleground states,
however, giving him the necessary 270 electoral votes to assume the presidency.

He won in Pennsylvania. He won in Wisconsin, breaking a Democratic winning
streak dating back 32 years. He holds a slim lead in Michigan, where a
Republican presidential candidate hadn't won since 1988; The Associated Press
still hasn't officially called that race.

Wisconsin, where Trump leads by little more than 22,000 votes, has never
conducted a presidential recount. Even before Stein's Friday request, Wisconsin
elections Commission Elections Supervisor Ross Hein sent a memo to clerks this
week telling them to expect one.

In Michigan, Trump's 10,704-vote lead is expected to be certified by the state
elections board Monday. The deadline to ask for a recount is Wednesday.

A statewide recount would cost Stein roughly $790,000, said Fred Woodhams, a
spokesman for the Michigan secretary of state. An opposing candidate would have
seven days to file objections to the recount petition, after which the board
would schedule a public hearing and later issue a ruling on the objections.

Trump's transition team indicated he was focused on the challenges of governing.

Since arriving at his Palm Beach estate Wednesday, they said, the
president-elect has spoken to the prime ministers of Greece, Hungary and Sweden,
along with the presidents of Panama and Slovenia.

He is expected to return to his New York City home on Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             460 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Trump shifts from Wall St. villain to savior;
Who rewrote the cynical, apocalyptic script overnight?

BYLINE: Adam Shell

SECTION: ; Pg. Z6

LENGTH: 746 words


would Initial be fears poisonous that Donald to financial Trump' markets s views
on quickly such topics diminished as trade .

How did Donald Trump go from a scary president-to-be in the eyes of Wall Street
to a bullish catalyst that has propelled the U.S. stock market to a series of
record highs in a surge investors dubbed the "Trump Rally"?

Turn the clock back to late October and early November, when the Dow Jones
industrial average tumbled seven straight sessions as investors reacted to
tightening polls hinting long-shot Trump had a shot at the White House. Recall
election night when the Dow plunged 900 points in after-hours futures trading as
it grew clear the ex-reality star had upset Hillary Clinton.

Starting the day after Trump's win, U.S. stocks did what few pundits saw coming:
They started to rise in value - a trend that has continued for two weeks and
that has pushed U.S. stocks to record highs. Blue-chip stocks soared. So did
large-company stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500, as did small-caps in the
Russell 2000. Tech stocks in the Nasdaq eventually took flight, too. The rally
has been so broad that all four stock indexes closed at record highs at the same
time last week - on three straight days - a bullish feat last seen on New Year's
Eve 1999, during the tail end of the biggest bull market in history.

What switched Wall Street's "like" Trump button to on? Here are some theories:

IT'S THE POLICIES

As soon as Trump became president-elect and the Republicans retained control of
both chambers of Congress, Wall Street stopped viewing Trump as a personality
and started to plug into their spreadsheets what his proposed pro-growth,
"America First" policies might mean for the nation's economy and corporate
earnings. When they finished calculating some preliminary numbers, they liked
what they saw.

"You went from a market expecting higher taxes to now lower taxes, a market
expecting more regulations now less regulations, a market expecting Elizabeth
Warren (no friend of Wall Street) as Treasury secretary and Bernie Sanders (a
Democratic presidential hopeful who wanted to tax the rich and boost government
spending on new programs) heading the budget committee to now conservatives in
those spots," says Gary Kaltbaum, president of Kaltbaum Capital Management. "The
market was not positioned for any of this as Clinton (was the favorite). So the
big money has to get into the market, which feeds on itself."

Trump's policies are akin to a performance-enhancing drug, explains Charles
Gabriel, a veteran Wall Street political forecaster and president of Capital
Alpha.

"It's pretty simple: Growth, with supply-side tax cuts plus a lighter regulatory
touch, after years of Obama, can be made to seem like Viagra," Gabriel says.

FEARFUL SELLERS SOLD OUT

By the time the New York Stock Exchange opened for trading the day after the
election, everyone who wanted to sell had done so, paving the way for a higher
market, says David Kotok, chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors. "The
starting point has to be the spike down in the two weeks preceding the
election," Kotok says. "That exhausted U.S.-based sellers and energized short
sellers (or investors who bet on, and profit from, a falling market). On
election night, the U.S. sellers were joined by the rest of the world. Panic
maximized at 900 Dow points down. So all the sellers worldwide had exited. Now
Trump wins. There are no sellers left standing. Stocks have nowhere to go but
up. So they do."

Now that the S&P 500 is above 2200 and at record highs, investors have to go
back to the basics, not just buy on the Trump momentum, Kotok says. "It is time
to return to fundamentals, Federal Reserve interest rate policy and the
unfolding of the new Trump regime," Kotok says.

A big fear was a contested election or a vote count resulting in no clear
winner. That didn't happen. Clarity returned, and stocks shot up, explains Mark
Luschini, chief investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott.

TRUMP TONES DOWN HIS ACT

Many cite Trump's gracious acceptance speech and positive post-election meeting
with President Obama as key turning points, raising hopes on Wall Street that
Trump could come across as presidential.

"Investors worried about Trump's capricious personality were comforted by his
moderate acceptance speech," says Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at BMO
Private Bank. "He's ratcheted back his extreme policies and behaviors. I think
that's the root of today's enthusiasm."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             461 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Teachers' Trump votes leave unions smarting;
Clinton carries labor households, but by too small a margin

BYLINE: Greg Toppo

SECTION: ; Pg. Z3

LENGTH: 492 words


cheer Delegates as presidential Democratic Hillary candidate Clintroduced ton is
in- to speak at the July Nation 5 - Association al Education tive Representa
Assembly - in ton Washing . -

WASHINGTON After Republican Donald Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton in
the Nov. 8 presidential election, the USA's teachers unions are wondering what
happened to their chosen candidate - and how so many of their members could have
voted for her opponent.

Despite eager endorsements of Clinton by both unions, the nation's teachers and
other school workers contributed substantially to Trump's Nov. 8 win.

How substantially? About one in five American Federation of Teachers (AFT)
members who cast a ballot voted for Trump, the union's leader estimated. Among
the larger National Education Association (NEA), which comprises more than 3
million members, more than one in three who voted did so for the billionaire
developer, early data show.

AFT President Randi Weingarten, whose union represents about 1.6 million
teachers and other workers, said some of the reason for Clinton's loss was
timing - and, perhaps, sexism.

"Frankly, I was always concerned about whether the country was ready to have a
female president," she said. "There was an intensity of hatred that male
political figures never get. So I think we're never really going to understand
it."

Most other large labor unions endorsed Clinton, including the Service Employees
International Union (SEIU), the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME). Despite
the support, Clinton won union households nationwide by just eight percentage
points, exit polls show: 51% to Trump's 43%.

Clinton carried white, college-educated women, but just barely: 51% to 45%.
Among white women without a college degree, Trump won resoundingly: 63% to
Clinton's 34%.

In that sense, teachers, who at last count were about 82% white and 76% female,
actually outperformed other groups when it came to their support for Clinton.

Weingarten said internal figures show that Clinton earned about 80% of her
members' votes, in spite of a "very effective" effort to disparage the former
secretary of state's character.

NEA President Lily Eskelsen García, said her organization will "listen closely"
as Trump lays out his education vision. "We haven't heard any specifics from the
incoming administration about education policies, so we can't speculate
further," she said.

In an interview, Weingarten said she had "no regrets" about the endorsement of
Clinton, adding that Democratic runner-up Sen. Bernie Sanders "was never tested
or vetted by anyone."

She added that Clinton "has spent her life fighting for families and children -
and that's what we spend our life fighting for. Were there mistakes she made? Of
course. Were there mistakes we made? Of course. But she is someone who for 30
years has been in the service of the public and incredibly qualified."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             462 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

IN BRIEF

SECTION: ; Pg. Z3

LENGTH: 381 words


CLINTON CAMPAIGN TO JOIN WISCONSIN VOTE RECOUNT

Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign said Saturday that it will participate
in a recount of the votes cast in Wisconsin's election.

The news comes after Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate for president,
initiated a recount there and pledged to pursue additional ones in Pennsylvania
and Michigan.

Wisconsin had been considered a reliable state for Democrats before Republican
Donald Trump's upset victory. The Clinton campaign will participate in the
Pennsylvania and Michigan recounts if Stein pursues them, attorney Marc Elias
wrote on Medium, a blogging site. The campaign is aware that the odds of a
recount reversing the vote in any state are slim, he added.

Unofficial tallies show Trump won Michigan by less than 12,000 votes, Wisconsin
by less than 30,000 and Pennsylvania by less than 70,000. Clinton would have to
win all three to receive enough electoral votes for the presidency.

Stein raised more than $5 million to pay for the recounts in the three states.
She received only 1% of the votes in each of the states.

- Erin Kelly

CALIF. FAMILY RELIEVED AFTER MISSING WOMAN FOUND OK

The family and friends of a missing Mountain Gate, Calif., woman expressed
relief a day after she was found near Sacramento.

Sherri Papini, 34, of Mountain Gate had been missing since Nov.

2. "Everyone's tireless efforts has made our family whole again this
Thanksgiving," Papini's sister, Sheila Koester, said Friday.

A passer-by found Papini alongside a road a shortly after her alleged captors
dropped her off, Shasta County Sheriff Tom Bosenko said on Good Morning America.

Authorities are searching for two Hispanic women armed with a handgun and
driving a dark SUV, he said.

- Amber Sandhu

Redding (Calif.) Record

Searchlight

FIREFIGHTERS HOPING END IN SIGHT FOR TENN., N.C. FIRES

Those who have been fighting fires in East Tennessee and North Carolina for more
than a month are daring to hope that the end might be in sight.

"We have had only three new fires, burning a total of 6 acres in our district,"
Nathan Waters, assistant forester with the state Division of Forestry East
District, which includes the Knoxville area, said Friday.

"We are getting predictions of rain for early next week and that could do it."

- Steve Ahillen

Knoxville News Sentinel

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             463 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday

Clinton will join Stein in push to recount ballots;
Campaign will look for evidence of Russian hacking.

BYLINE: David E. Sanger

SECTION: ; Pg. A23

LENGTH: 994 words


A ballot recount in Pennsylvania may occur for Green Party Presidential nominee
Jill Stein and Hillary Clinton. Voters stand outside the Schuylkill Township
polling station in Phoenixville, Pa.

The top lawyer for Hilary Clinton's presidential bid said Saturday that the
campaign would join Green Party Presidential nominee Jill Stein in her effort to
seek a full recount in Wisconsin, and potentially two other states.

WASHINGTON- The top lawyer for Hillary Clinton's presidential bid said Saturday
that the campaign would join a third-party candidate's effort to seek a full
recount in Wisconsin, and potentially two other states, though he said the
campaign had seen no "actionable evidence" of vote hacking.

In a post on Medium, Marc Elias, the campaign's general counsel, described an
intensive behind-the-scenes effort by the campaign to look for signs of Russian
hacker activity or other irregularities in the vote count.

The essay suggested that the campaign was joining the recount effort with little
expectation that it would change the result. But many of the campaign's
supporters, picking up on its frequent complaints of Russian interference in the
election, have enthusiastically backed the recount effort led by Jill Stein, who
was the Green Party candidate.

Stein filed for a recount in Wisconsin on Friday afternoon, about an hour before
the deadline. She has raised more than $5 million for the effort, which now will
turn to Michigan and Pennsylvania, where there are deadlines this week.

In his post, Elias sounded less enthusiastic than the recount's many supporters.

"Because we had not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or outside
attempts to alter the voting technology," he wrote, "we had not planned to
exercise this option ourselves."

He added, "Now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to
participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to
all sides."

Should Stein pursue additional recounts, "we will take the same approach in
those states as well," he wrote. But he noted that the "number of votes
separating Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in the closest of these states -
Michigan - well exceeds the largest margin ever overcome in a recount."

The Clinton campaign will not contribute financially to the effort, which has
been funded by small contributions. But it will pay to have its own lawyers
present at the recount, campaign officials said.

Trump issued a statement Saturday calling the recount push "ridiculous" and "a
scam by the Green Party."

He suggested that most of the money raised would not actually be spent on the
recount.

"The results of this election should be respected instead of being challenged
and abused, which is exactly what Jill Stein is doing," said Trump, who himself
suggested in the weeks before the election that the vote could be rigged.

In Wisconsin, Trump leads by 22,177 votes. In Michigan, he has a lead of 10,704
votes, and in Pennsylvania his advantage is 70,638 votes.

The Obama administration issued a statement Friday in response to questions
about intelligence findings related to Russian interference in the election. In
the statement, it said it had concluded that the election had been free of
interference.

The administration issued a second statement on Saturday saying that "the
federal government did not observe any increased level of malicious
cyberactivity aimed at disrupting our electoral process on Election Day."

It added: "As we have noted before, we remained confident in the overall
integrity of electoral infrastructure, a confidence that was borne out on
Election Day. As a result, we believe our elections were free and fair from a
cybersecurity perspective."

Clinton conceded the race to Trump early Nov. 9, when it became clear that he
would have a large margin of victory in the Electoral College. But as her lead
in the popular vote has grown - it now exceeds 2 million votes - her base has
increasingly pressured her to challenge the results.

That has been fueled in part by how aggressively the Clinton campaign spread the
word of Russian involvement in the theft of emails from the Democratic National
Committee and from the personal account of John Podesta, the campaign's
chairman. The campaign also charged that the Russians were behind fake news
about Clinton's health, among other stories - a claim supported to some extent
by recent studies.

Some critics saw those accusations as an effort to shift the discussion from
mistakes the Clinton campaign had made in taking on Trump.

Now Clinton finds herself in a difficult position of not wanting to lead the
charge for a recount that Democrats believe will go nowhere, but also not
wanting to abandon supporters who have donated to Stein's last-ditch effort.

Elias' post offered a revealing look at how much time and energy the campaign
has spent in the past two weeks looking for evidence of Russian hacking or other
irregularities, and how it has tried to keep those efforts secret.

"Since the day after the election, we have had lawyers and data scientists and
analysts combing over the results to spot anomalies that would suggest a hacked
result," Elias wrote. "These have included analysts both from within the
campaign and outside, with backgrounds in politics, technology and academia."

He said those efforts had been followed by "numerous meetings and calls with
various outside experts to hear their concerns and to discuss and review their
data and findings." The campaign shared its data as well.

"Most of those discussions have remained private, while at least one has
unfortunately been the subject of leaks," he wrote, a reference to conversations
between Podesta and a group of experts that included J. Alex Halderman, a
computer scientist with deep experience in the vulnerabilities of voting
systems.

Halderman put his own post on Medium early Thursday, describing his suspicions
and the case for recounts. But even he doubted the election result would change.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             464 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Media companies to lobby Trump to loosen rules;
TV station owners are seeking more cross-ownership

BYLINE: Roger Yu

SECTION: ; Pg. Z5

LENGTH: 551 words


Media in particular companies , has completely are expected remade to argue
industry that digital dynamics technology . ,

Count local TV station owners among the industries emboldened by Donald Trump.

In changing of the guards at the White House, the local TV industry sees a ripe
opportunity in their ongoing quest to toss out the Federal Communication
Commission's rules on media cross-ownership that bar media companies from owning
newspapers and TV stations in the same market.

The National Association of Broadcasters, a trade group for TV station owners,
"is cautiously optimistic a Trump FCC will take a fresh look at reforming
outdated local broadcast ownership rules," said Dennis Wharton, NAB's executive
vice president of media relations. "These are I Love Lucy era rules in a Modern
Family world."

The rules, devised in the 1975, specifically prohibit media companies to own a
newspaper and a TV station in the same local market. Companies are also barred
from owning more than one top-4-in-ratings TV station in any market.

The FCC drafted the rules to prevent heavy concentration of local media market
shares held by one company, asserting that such dominant ownership can inhibit
diversity of opinions and raise prices for advertisers. Media companies have
fought for years to loosen or eliminate the rules, arguing that they're outdated
in the digital era and limit business diversification needed to enrich their
revenue.

The FCC, which is directed by five commissioners appointed by the U.S.
president, reviews the rules every four years to ensure they're still relevant.

After completing the review in August, the agency, in a partisan 3-2 vote, chose
to retain the rules for the next four years, but provided an exception for
"failed or failing newspapers" to receive investment from a TV business in their
market.

The prevailing assumption on K Street is that President-elect Donald Trump -
even though he has publicly stated his opposition to AT&T's proposed $85.4
billion acquisition of Time Warner - will look to loosen industry regulations.

With Republicans expected to take over the FCC's five-member panel, the NAB
plans to ask the agency to reconsider its latest quadrennial decision. Less than
a week after the presidential election, the News Media Alliance, which
represents print publishers, also filed an appeal of the FCC's decision.

In seeking to revisit the rules, media companies will argue that digital
technology, in particular, has completely remade industry dynamics. And relaxing
ownership restrictions could spark more acquisitions and other investment deals.
"This rule prevents our industry from achieving the necessary scale to compete
in media marketplace, while investment will continue to flow to Internet
distribution platforms that compete with news publishers for advertising
revenue," says David Chavern, CEO of the News Media Alliance. "The result will
be fewer resources for local news and investigative reporting."

Ajit Pai, one of the FCC's current commissioners and a Republican who's
mentioned as a possible candidate to replace the outgoing FCC chairman Tom
Wheeler, told a gathering of local TV executives in a conference in Wichita last
month that "the FCC missed a golden opportunity to update our ownership rules to
reflect the modern media marketplace."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             465 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Trump slams Clinton team over recount;
President-elect takes to Twitter to decry 'hypocrisy'

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: ; Pg. Z3

LENGTH: 604 words


President in West Palm -elect Beach Donald , Fla Trump ., to return , his wife
to New Melania York. and son Barron, board his plane at Palm Beach International
Airport on Sunday

NEW YORK Coming off a holiday weekend in South Florida, Donald Trump unleashed a
Sunday morning tweet storm on Hillary Clinton over her campaign's decision to
join a recount process on voting results in Wisconsin and perhaps other states.

"So much time and money will be spent - same result! Sad" Trump said in one
Twitter post.

The president-elect, who spent Thanksgiving weekend at his Mar-A-Lago estate in
Palm Beach, Fla., expressed his recount displeasure before his planned return to
New York City early Sunday evening.

More interviews for jobs in the Trump administration are planned for the coming
week. Among the slots Trump is looking to fill: secretaries of State, Treasury,
and Defense.

Trump's comments about the recount capped a series of tweets in which he quoted
Clinton's criticism of a Trump debate comment that he might not recognize the
results on the election should he lose. At one point, Trump noted, Clinton
described refusal to accept the results of an election as "a direct threat to
our democracy."

The Clinton campaign said Saturday it would participate in a Wisconsin recount
sought by Green Party candidate Jill Stein, and may join Stein-backed efforts in
Michigan and Pennsylvania. Officials cited voter concerns about Russian hacking
and other forms of alleged voting problems.

While Clinton officials said they have seen no evidence of vote tampering, and
do not expect the results in any state to change, they believe their campaign
needs to be represented during any recount process.

In a post on Medium, Clinton general counsel Marc Erik Elias wrote: "Because we
had not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or outside attempts to
alter the voting technology, we had not planned to exercise this option
ourselves, but now that a recount has been initiated in Wisconsin, we intend to
participate in order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to
all sides."

Although Trump carried the states of Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin by a
total of only about 107,000 votes, Elias noted that "the number of votes
separating Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton in the closest of these states -
Michigan - well exceeds the largest margin ever overcome in a recount."

Clinton supporters raised concerns about possible Russian hacking of the
election, though the Democratic team and the Obama administration have said
there is no evidence of it.

Trump, meanwhile, charged the Clinton campaign with hypocrisy. "Hillary Clinton
conceded the election when she called me just prior to the victory speech and
after the results were in," Trump said in a post. "Nothing will change."

He made some appointments and worked on other transition issues while at
Mar-A-Lago, including what aides said was a 45-minute phone conversation
Saturday with President Obama.

"They've been talking regularly on any number of issues," Trump adviser
Kellyanne Conway said on NBC's Meet the Press.

Even though Trump enjoys his chats with Obama and "they get along nicely,"
Conway also said "they disagree on many things. That's not going to change."

During a series of interviews, Conway said Trump also is working with aides on
how to avoid potential conflicts of interests between his actions as president
and the many global business interests he and his family have.

"He has been talking to his lawyers, he's been talking to ethics compliance
folks," Conway told Meet the Press. "Everything will be done the way it needs to
be done."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             466 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Trump: 'Millions' voted illegally;
He rejects Clinton's edge in popular vote, scoffs at recount effort.;
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: By Steve Peoples and Calvin Woodward

SECTION: ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 923 words


President-elect Donald Trump, followed by his wife Melania and son Barron,
boards his plane at Palm Beach International Airport, Sunday in West Palm Beach,
Fla., as the family returned to New York after the holiday weekend.

WEST PALM BEACH, FLA. - President-elect Donald Trump claimed without evidence
Sunday that "millions" voted illegally in the national election, scoffing at
Hillary Clinton's nearly 2 million edge in the popular vote and returning to his
campaign mantra of a rigged race even as he prepares to enter the White House in
less than two months.

Trump and his lieutenants assailed an effort - now joined by Clinton - to
recount votes in up to three battleground states, calling the push fraudulent,
the work of "crybabies" and, in Trump's estimation, "sad."

The president-elect went on to cast a shadow over the legitimacy of an election
that he actually won, tweeting that "I won the popular vote if you deduct the
millions of people who voted illegally." He further contended that if the
popular vote determined the presidency, "It would have been much easier for me
to win" it because hewould have altered his campaign to pile up overall vote
totals, not Electoral College votes.

There's been no indication of widespread vote manipulation, illegal voting or
hacking that materially affected the outcome one way or the other. It's that
very lack of evidence that suggests Trump is likely to prevail in recounts.

As Trump worked to fill foreign policy and national security posts in his
Cabinet, a top adviser expressed astonishment that 2012 GOP presidential nominee
Mitt Romney remained under consideration for secretary of state after his
campaign-long questioning of Trump's character, intellect and integrity.

Trump on Sunday tweeted part of Clinton's concession speech, when she told
supporters they must accept that "Donald Trump is going to be our president,"
and snippets from her debate remarks, when she denounced the Republican nominee
for refusing to say in advance that he would accept the Election Day verdict.

This came on top of his saying it was a "scam" that Green Party nominee Jill
Stein was revisiting the vote count in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.
Trump won Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, and as of Wednesday, held a lead of almost
11,000 votes in Michigan, with the results awaiting state certification Monday.
His Michigan margin was a hair's breadth 0.22 percent of the state's votes.

Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2 million votes, but Trump
won 290 electoral votes to Clinton's 232, not counting Michigan. She could
conceivably tip the electoral balance in the remote event that all flipped to
her in recounts.

Trump planned to return to New York on Sunday after spending Thanksgiving
weekend at his West Palm Beach estate. His transition team said the
president-elect had scheduled a series of meetings today with prospective
administration hires.

Among the jobs Trump has still yet to fill: secretary of state. Internal
division over the position again spilled out into the open on Sunday as Trump
senior adviser Kellyanne Conway voiced her concerns with the possibility of
Romney landing such a significant position.

Trump supporters "feel a bit betrayed that you can get a Romney back in there
after everything he did," Conway said. "We don't even know if he voted for
Donald Trump. He and his consultants were nothing but awful to Donald Trump for
a year." She added that she was "reflecting what the grassroots are saying."

Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker are among
other prospects to serve as the country's top diplomat.

"I'm all for party unity, but I'm not sure we have to pay for that with the
secretary of state position," Conway said.

Trump's incoming chief of staff,nationalpartyChairman Reince Priebus,
acknowledged that Romney would represent "a team of rivals concept."

Trump was mostly silent on the brewing recount effort until it became known that
Clinton would join it, at least in Wisconsin. On Saturday, a day after Wisconsin
officials said they would conduct the first presidential recount in the state's
history, Clinton campaign attorney Marc Elias said: "We intend to participate in
order to ensure the process proceeds in a manner that is fair to all sides."

Elias said Clinton would take the same approach in Pennsylvania and Michigan if
Stein were to follow through withrecountrequestsinthose states.

That loosened Trump's tongue.

"Hillary Clinton conceded the election when she called me just prior to the
victory speech and after the results werein,"TrumptweetedSunday. "Nothing will
change."

He quoted from her concession speech - "We owe him an open mind and the chance
to lead" - and he concluded: "So much time and money will be spent - same
result! Sad."

On NBC's "Meet the Press," Conway said Stein, "the Hillary people" and others
supporting recounts have to decide whether they are going to back a peaceful
transition "or if they're going to be a bunch of crybabies and sore losers about
an election that they can't turn around."

Priebus,on"FoxNewsSunday," called the effort a "total and complete distraction
and a fraud and something that they should drop."

Clinton's lawyer said her team has been combing through the results since the
election in search of anomalies that would suggest hacking by Russians or others
and found "no actionable evidence" of an altered outcome. Moreover, Elias said,
Trump has a vote lead even in the closest states that well exceeds the largest
margin ever overcome in a recount.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             467 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Chastain enters the political fray;
Ambition suits her well as a power player in 'Miss Sloane';
MOVIES

BYLINE: Andrea Mandell

SECTION: ; Pg. Z7

LENGTH: 518 words


Republican lobbyist Elizabeth Sloane (Jessi-takes ca Chastain on the ) old on
Capitol boys' club Hill.

BEVERLY HILLS After a contentious election, Miss Sloane arrives rife with
lessons on cloudy American politics.

In the new political thriller (in select theaters in Los Angeles and New York,
expands nationwide Dec. 9), Jessica Chastain takes the reins as the ferociously
intelligent (fictional) Republican lobbyist Elizabeth Sloane, who ditches a
high-profile job to push a bill restricting firearm sales through Congress.

"It's not interested in lecturing anyone," says the actress, curling up on a
couch at the Four Seasons. She says Miss Sloane, which reveals the
sausage-making on (and off ) Capitol Hill, could just as easily have used an
issue such as climate change or immigration to make its point.

"It just uses that to show an inner world of the American political system and
the fundraising - what it takes to get a bill passed and how corrupt the system
can be when it's led by money," she says.

Chastain, 39, spent pre-production Googling top female lobbyists and walked away
from a trip to Washington with a decidedly different take on Sloane, a character
she presumed would wear little makeup and rotate the same wardrobe day in and
out.

"It was almost naïve of me to think that, because there's

something about the way

Elizabeth Sloane dresses and

about some of the women

that I met in D.C. where

they intimidate before they

even enter the room," says

the actress, whose character's war paint is dark nail polish and crimson
lipstick.

Critics are praising her performance in the film, which has a 72% positive
rating on the review site Rotten Tomatoes. "Equally icy and savvy, Sloane has no
patience for hippies, naïve Millennials or the old boys' club, whose glass
ceiling she's pretty much pulverizing with a jackhammer any chance she gets,"
wrote USA TODAY critic Brian Truitt.

The criticism lobbed at Hillary Clinton in the presidential election is top of
mind for the actress. During the debates, "the criticism

against Hillary was that

she was overprepared. I

never heard in my entire

life that a man was overprepared for anything. I am over-prepared in my life,"
she says. "What's wrong with being ambitious, being overprepared, being one step
ahead?"

Offscreen, Chastain seems ready to recalibrate her fame. The private star has
even started sharing a slice of her personal life via Instagram, selectively
posting occasional shots with her longtime boyfriend, fashion executive Gian
Luca Passi de Preposulo. "Gian Luca and I have been together for such a long
time, we're in it for the long haul," she says.

She's also switching gears after working relentlessly, having just wrapped the
Sitting Bull drama Woman Walks Ahead and just started the Aaron Sorkin-directed
Molly's Game in Toronto.

"I'm at an interesting point in my life and in my career. A few years ago, I
started to examine where I was in the world and what I was contributing to
society," says Chastain, adding that she's ready to direct and share the
spotlight.

"It becomes like you're eating cake every day. You just want to share the cake!"

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             468 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Trump threatens to scuttle Cuba diplomacy;
Petraeus interviewed as search continues to fill Cabinet posts

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: ; Pg. Z3

LENGTH: 584 words


in A person a Donald holds Trump a mask sign " that the reads Rat ami Dies as "
in he Mi-the celebrates death of Fidel Castro.

NEW YORK While conducting an unusually public search for secretary of State,
President-elect Donald Trump again threatened Monday to terminate emerging
diplomatic relations with Cuba if it does not somehow reform.

"If Cuba is unwilling to make a better deal for the Cuban people, the
Cuban/American people and the U.S. as a whole, I will terminate deal," Trump
tweeted two days after the death of former Cuba leader Fidel Castro.

Interviews at Trump Tower on Monday included one with retired general and ex-CIA
director David Petraeus, a potential pick in the battle for secretary of State.

On Tuesday, Trump is scheduled to meet with another State Department
possibility, Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee, chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee. The president-elect also has a second interview lined up
for 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, whose possible appointment
as secretary of State has drawn criticism from Trump backers.

"It's going to be a busy week," Vice President-elect and transition chairman
Mike Pence told reporters in the lobby of Trump Tower en route to meetings. "Get
ready. Buckle up."

Petraeus told reporters that he and Trump spoke for about an hour, and the
president-elect "showed a great grasp of a variety of the challenges that are
out there, and some of the opportunities as well."

Calling it a "very good conversation," Petraeus said that "we'll see where it
goes from here."

One challenge is Cuba.

The Obama administration has engaged in a series of diplomatic moves with the
Cuban regime, from agreeing to commercial flights to the opening of embassy
offices in each nation's capital.

Trump, who made a similar claim regarding Cuba during the presidential campaign,
has not specified how he might roll back these initiatives.

The president-elect's latest moves came a day after he used Twitter to expound
conspiracy theories about alleged voter fraud, suggesting that is the reason he
lost to Democrat Hillary Clinton by more than 2 million votes in the latest
tallies.

After a series of tweets criticizing Clinton and aides for participating in a
vote recount in Wisconsin, Trump said in another post: "In addition to winning
the Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the
millions of people who voted illegally."

He provided no evidence for that assertion, popular among conspiracy theorists.

Trump also claimed voter fraud in the states of Virginia, New Hampshire, and
California, again without evidence.

Tom Rath, a veteran Republican from New Hampshire (and a supporter of Ohio Gov.
John Kasich during the Republican primaries) responded to Trump on Twitter:
"This will probably cost me my spot in the Cabinet but there was no fraud,
serious or other, in this election in NH. There just wasn't."

And a researcher who said the Trump campaign is citing one of his reports said
it included nothing about voter fraud.

"We found millions of out-of-date registration records due to people moving or
dying, but found no evidence that voter fraud resulted," tweeted David Becker,
executive director of The Center for Election Innovation & Research.

Clinton officials and Democrats mocked Trump's complaints.

"We are getting attacked for participating in a recount that we didn't ask for
by the man who won election but thinks there was massive fraud," said a tweet
from Clinton campaign general counsel Marc Elias.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             469 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Wisconsin denies recount request;
Stein vows lawsuit, takes aim at Pa. and Mich. as well

BYLINE: and Jason Patrick Stein Marley

SECTION: ; Pg. Z1

LENGTH: 821 words


Police surround the body of a suspect at Ohio State. "We prepare for situations
like this, but we hope we never have one," school President Michael Drake said.

attack A young in man Columbus participates , Ohio, in on a Monday vigil after .
the car-and-knife

MADISON Green Party candidate Jill Stein continued her quest Monday for a
recount of the presidential election but was thwarted Monday by the Wisconsin
Elections Commission, which rejected her request to require a count by hand.

Stein quickly responded that she would sue and also filed a lawsuit in
Pennsylvania to force a recount there, and her supporters began filing recount
requests at the precinct level. Initial results showed Republican Donald Trump
ahead of Democrat Hillary Clinton by 70,638 votes.

The commission set a timetable Monday for a recount of the presidential

election.

Stein - who received just a tiny piece of the vote - also plans to ask for a
recount in Michigan on Wednesday,

according to Mark Brewer, former chairman of the Michigan Democratic Party and
lawyer for Stein.

Michigan's Board of Canvassers certified its election results Monday afternoon,
showing Trump won the presidential race by a 10,704-vote margin over Clinton.

The certification made the election results official, but it also started the
48-hour clock for Stein to seek a recount.

Stein, who has raised more than $6.3 million online to pay for recounts in
Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan, she's not requesting the recounts because
she thinks they will change the outcome of the presidential race. Instead, she
said in a video on her Facebook page, that she picked the three states where the
vote was the closest to ensure the integrity of the election.

The Clinton campaign announced Saturday that it will participate in the
Wisconsin recount to ensure fairness.

Trump called the effort a "scam" aimed at filling the Green Party's "coffers."

In addition, Trump alleged in a tweet that there was "serious voter fraud" in
Virginia, New Hampshire and California and blamed the media for not reporting on
it. on campus. Run Hide Fight. Watts Hall. 19th and College" the university's
emergency management agency tweeted within minutes of the attack. "Run hide
fight" is emergency protocol used to warn people to flee if possible, hide from
the shooter and, if all else fails, fight for your life.

Stone said it did not immediately appear that the attacker used a gun. The
alert, however, apparently was sent after the suspect was fatally shot.

A short time later, the agency tweeted a warning to "Continue to shelter in
place in north campus area. Follow directions of Police on scene."

A SWAT team, K-9 and bomb squad units and scores of law enforcement officials
descended on the sprawling campus. Less than two hours after the first alert,
university police said the shelter-in-place order was lifted and the "scene was
secure." Classes were canceled for the rest of the day.

"We prepare for situations like this, but we hope we never have one," school
President Michael Drake said.

Student Harrison Roth tweeted a picture from inside a classroom, with chairs
stacked up to block the door.

"I'm safe in a barricaded room," he said in the tweet. "If you're on campus, get
in a room and stay safe."

Freshman Meredith Johnson, 19, was in a psychology class when the university
alert popped up on her teacher's screen. The teacher and students thought it
might have been a scam, she said. "Three or four minutes later, we got the
text," Johnson said. "Stay indoors. Active shooter. That's when I started
freaking out."

Peterson Pierre, a junior biochemistry major, said he woke up to the campus
alert. He and his roommate decided to go outside and see what was happening.

"We saw a body covered with a white sheet," Pierre said.

Other students hunkered down in their apartments, waiting for the threat to
pass.

"It's honestly kind of terrifying because I was at home and away from my phone
at the time," said Jenny Chen, who stayed in her apartment about two blocks from
Watts Hall, listed on the school's website as a Materials Science and
Engineering building.

"I got flooded with messages ... asking me if I was safe, and I didn't even
realize this was happening," said Chen, a senior. "Now I'm just scrambling to
make sure that people I know are safe as well."

Victoria Morishita, a senior studying logistics management, said she was off
campus, but her phone quickly loaded with texts from people near the scene.

"I was scared because it happened near our CBEC and business building and a lot
of my friends were there," she said.

Facebook activated its safety check, entitled "The Violent Incident in Columbus,
Ohio," allows those in the area to mark themselves "safe," "unsafe" or "outside
the affected area" with the click of a button. Users can also invite friends to
mark their safety status.

Tinae Contributing A. Bluitt : Walbert ; Gregory Castillo Korte; ;

Sophia Tulp; Cincinnati Enquirer

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             470 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Terror, Brexit and a total eclipse ...

SECTION: ; Pg. SMR1

LENGTH: 927 words


The push to kick the Islamic State out of Mosul will continue into 2017.

Britain will begin to separate itself from the European Union in 2017.

A total eclipse of the sun is expected Aug. 21, 2017. It will be visible across
the United States.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel will seek re-election to a fourth term in 2017.

The war on terror

Iraq's campaign against the Islamic State is expected to continue next year. The
Iraqi military launched a campaign on Oct. 17 to retake Mosul, Iraq's second
largest city and the extremist group's last major urban bastion in the country.
Most gains have been made by the special forces operating in the section of
Mosul east of the Tigris river. Other forces are advancing on the city from
different directions, and the U.S.-led coalition is providing airstrikes and
other support. The Islamic State captured Mosul in the summer of 2014 as part of
a blitz that placed nearly a third of Iraq under their control. Iraqi troops,
federal police and allied Shiite and Sunni militias have over the past year
pushed the militants from most of the vast Sunni province of Anbar, west of
Baghdad, and areas to the north and east of the Iraqi capital.

Britain begins

its exit from the

European Union

British Prime Minister Theresa May plans to start the process to separate the
country from the European Union by the end of March 2017. Officials say a recent
court ruling requiring her to seek Parliament's approval before initiating the
separation will not slow the government's timetable. There is significant
opposition to leaving the EU among Labour Party, Liberal Democrat and Scottish
National Party lawmakers. A number of Conservative Party members also oppose the
move. The government, however, faces strong political pressure to respect the
referendum that passed with 52 percent of the vote on June

23. Once it starts, the separation process is expected to take about two years.

Will the populist

revolt continue in

Europe?

Elections in France and Germany will test whether the populist tide that
electedDonaldTrumppresident in the United States and fueled the vote in Britain
to exit the European Union will continue.

In France, conservatives are expected to have a strong chance of victory in next
spring's presidential election. The main challenger next year may turn out to be
far-right leader Marine Le Pen, who is hoping anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim and
anti-establishment sentiment can propel her to the presidency. Her chances were
long been discounted among political prognosticators in France, but that changed
after Trump's victory.

In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel says she will seek re-election in 2017.
Merkel, facing a backlash against asylum seekers, ended months of speculation
about whether she would seek a fourth term and again take up her party's
standard as a populist tide rises across Europe. Polls have shown she still
enjoys strong support, if less so than before Germany, a country of about 80
million people, opened its doors to nearly 1 million new arrivals last year.

Watching Iran

Iran will hold its next presidential election in May 2017, a vote in which
moderate President Hassan Rouhani may seek a second term to push ahead with
reforms resisted by powerful hardliners. Rouhani last year struck a deal with
world powers on curbing Iran's nuclear program in exchange for relief from
sanctions and has sought to open Iran's economy to foreign investors. Former
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the populist conservative who was one of the
West's most reliable antagonists during his eight years in office, has been told
not to run by Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the most powerful figure in Iran.

A few key U.S.

elections

Only two states hold gubernatorial races next year, while a number of big cities
will hold mayoral races. In New Jersey, Republican Gov. Chris Christie, an early
Trump supporter, will leave office because of term limits. The Republican brand
there has been tarnished for now by the Bridgegate scandal, in which two of
Christie's former allies were convicted in a plot to close the George Washington
Bridge in 2013 to punish a Democratic mayor for not backing Christie's
re-election. Virginia will be closely watched: Four Republicans will test which
messages will be effective in the coming Trump era as the party seeks to reclaim
the seat being vacated by Democrat Terry McAuliffe, who cannot run again because
of term limits. Several big cities will be hold mayoral elections, including New
York, Los Angeles, Atlanta, Boston, Charlotte, Seattle and St. Louis.

A dark day we'll all remember

Don't say you weren't warned: Aug. 21, 2017 "may turn out to be the most popular
vacation-day request in history," Michael E. Bakich writes in Discover magazine
- so you may want to get that time-off request in early. Why? Because on that
date - for the first time in 99 years - a total eclipse of the sun will be
visible across the United States, from sea to temporarily-not-shining sea.
Millions of Americans will be in easy driving distance of a spectacle that has
been called indescribable, unforgettable, even life-altering. The sun will
disappear for about 2? minutes, beginning in Oregon about 10:15 a.m. local time;
the phenomenon will move eastward, ending an hour and a half later in South
Carolina. In between, the eclipse will be visible from Grand Teton and the Great
Smoky Mountains national parks, from St. Louis and Kansas City and Charleston,
S.C., and all points in between. The last time a total eclipse was visible coast
to coast was June 8, 1918, and it was front-page news nationwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             471 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday

Trump transition roiled by disputes;
Aides struggle to defend claims of illegal voting.

BYLINE: ByJulie Pace and Catherine Lucey

SECTION: ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 967 words


Kellyanne Conway, Donald Trump's campaign manager, warned the president-elect
that nominating Mitt Romney could be seen as a betrayal by his supporters.

NEWYORK- The drama, disputes and falsehoods that permeated Donald Trump's
presidential campaign are now roiling his transition to the White House, forcing
aides to defend his baseless assertions of illegal voting and sending internal
fights spilling into public.

On Monday, a recount effort, led by Green Party candidate Jill Stein and joined
by Hillary Clinton's campaign, also marched on in three states, based partly on
the Stein campaign's unsubstantiated assertion that cyberhacking could have
interfered with electronic voting machines. Wisconsin officials approved plans
to begin a recount as early as Thursday. Stein also asked for a recount in
Pennsylvania and was expected to do the same in Michigan, where officials
certified Trump's victory Monday.

T r u m p h a s a n g r i ly denounced the recounts, while raising other
questions about the vote. "In addition to winning the Electoral College in a
landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the millions of people who voted
illegally," he said Sunday on Twitter, without providing evidence.

Later, he singled out Virginia, California and New Hampshire.

There has been no indication of widespread election tampering or voter fraud in
those states or any others, and Trump aides struggled Monday to back up their
boss' claim.

Spokesman Jason Miller said illegal voting was "an issue of concern." But the
only evidence he raised was a 2014 news report and a study on voting
irregularities conducted before the 2016 election.

Trump met Monday with candidates for top Cabinet posts, including retired Gen.
David Petraeus, a new contender for secretary of state. Trump is to meet today
with Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, who is also being considered more seriously for
the diplomatic post, and Mitt Romney, who has become a symbol of the internal
divisions agitating the transition team.

Petraeus said he spent about an hour with Trump, and he praised the
president-elect for showing a "great grasp of a variety of the challenges that
are out there."

"Very good conversation and we'll see where it goes from here," he said. A
former CIA chief, Petraeus pleaded guilty last year to a misdemeanor charge of
mishandling classified information relating to documents he had provided to his
biographer, with whom he was having an affair.

Vice President-elect Mike Pence, who is heading the transition effort, is said
to be among those backing Romney for State. Romney was fiercely critical of
Trump throughout the campaign but is interested in the Cabinet position, and
they discussed it during a lengthy meeting earlier this month.

Other top Trump allies, notably campaign manager Kellyanne Conway, have launched
a highly unusual public campaign to warn the president-elect that nominating
Romney would be seen as a betrayal by his supporters. Conway's comments stirred
speculation that she is seeking to either force Trump's hand or give him cover
for ultimately passing over Romney.

Three people close to the transition team said Trump had been aware that Conway
planned to voice her opinion, both on Twitter and in television interviews. They
disputed reports that Trump was furious at her and suggested his decision to
consider additional candidates instead highlighted her influence.

Conway served as Trump's third campaign manager and largely succeeded in
navigating the minefield of rivalries that ensnared other officials. Trump is
said to have offered her a choice of White House jobs - either press secretary
or communications director. But people with knowledge of Conway's plans say she
is more interested in serving as an outside political adviser, akin to the role
President Barack Obama's campaign manager David Plouffe played following the
2008 election.

The wrangling over the State Department post appears to have slowed the
announcements of other top jobs. Retired Gen. James Mat-

'Very good conversation and we'll see where it goes from here.'

Ret. Gen. David Petraeus

contender for secretary of

state

tis, who impressed Trump during a pre-Thanksgiving meeting, was at the top of
the list for defense secretary, but a final decision had not been made.

Trump was also considering former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani for homeland
security secretary, according to those close to the transition process. Giuliani
was initially the front-runner for secretary of state and is still in the

mix. But questions about his overseas business dealings, as well as the mayor's
public campaigning for the job, have given Trump pause.

Those close to the transition insisted on anonymity in commenting because they
were not authorized to publicly discuss the private process.

Even as Trump weighs major decisions that will shape his presidency, he's been
unable to avoid being distracted by the recount effort. He spent Sunday on a
12-hour Twitter offensive that included quoting Clinton's concession speech, in
which she said the public owed Trump "an open mind and the chance to lead."

His final tweets challenging the integrity of an election he won were
reminiscent of his repeated, unsubstantiated assertions during the campaign that
the contest might be rigged.

Those previous comments sparked an outcry from both Clinton and some
Republicans.

Clinton lawyer Marc Elias said the campaign has seen "no actionable evidence" of
voting anomalies. But the campaign still plans to be involved in Stein's recount
to ensure its interests are legally represented.

Trump narrowly won Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan. All three would need to
flip to Clinton to upend the Republican's victory, and Clinton's team says Trump
has a larger edge in all three states than has ever been overcome in a
presidential recount.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             472 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Legend opens a window to his world;
'Darkness' hits home, but it also looks 'to find light';
MUSIC

BYLINE: Patrick Ryan

SECTION: ; Pg. Z7

LENGTH: 527 words


says Darkness John , Legend out Friday , photographed , "talks about at an the
uncertain American world Music that Awards can be Nov dark . 20 and in Los
troublesome Angeles. ,"

Legend We Deliver and Golden his wife Heart , Chrissy Awards Teigen Oct , get .
17 close in New at York the God City 's . Love

It has been a year since John Legend wrote most of his forthcoming fifth album,
Darkness and Light. But the Grammy-winning singer/songwriter (and impassioned
Hillary Clinton supporter) says its themes have struck a new chord with him in
the weeks after the presidential election.

"It feels more relevant than it would have otherwise, because the album talks
about an uncertain world that can be dark and troublesome at times, and trying
to find light through that," says Legend, 37. "I guess the world got a little
darker, in my mind, after the election."

Darkness (out Friday) is also his most personal record, he adds - and that's
coming from the man who spun a tender ballad for his wife, model Chrissy Teigen,
into a No. 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart (All of Me, off 2013
album Love in the Future).

Working with Alabama Shakes producer Blake Mills - and inspired by Stevie
Wonder, Curtis Mayfield and Marvin Gaye - "I wanted it to be an honest
reflection of who I am as a person, and what I'm thinking about when it comes to
my personal life and what's going on in the world," Legend says.

The Miguel collaboration Overload muses on Legend and Teigen's relationship in
the spotlight and how they deal with online critics. (The lyric "let that blue
bird sing" shrugs off Twitter trolls.) The deceptively sexy Penthouse Floor,
featuring Chance the Rapper, is the album's most socially conscious track, as
the duo takes stock of class and fame over an elastic funk groove.

"The song is talking about that idea of ascension and going to rarefied air, but
also not forgetting what the conditions are in the community that you've come
from," Legend says. "Chance's verse puts an interesting twist on it, because it
(asks), 'Are you even sure you want to be here?' You still feel like an
outsider; you're not treated the same way as the people who are born into
(wealth)."

Then there's Right By You, a heart-tugging rumination on his 7-month-old
daughter, Luna, who also appears in the music video for single Love Me Now.
Written while Teigen was pregnant, the song is "mostly questions: wondering what
our daughter's going to be like, how we'll be as parents, what kind of world
she'll grow up in and how she'll influence that world," Legend says. "It's not
(written) out of anxiety; it's more curiosity and hope."

Outside music, Legend is a producer on WGN America's slavery drama Underground
and has a small role in Damien Chazelle's musical Oscar contender La La Land
(out Dec. 9). He says fatherhood has made him more mindful of his schedule and
what projects he takes on, because "you just want to be there as much as you
can."

More personally, being a parent is "a beautiful thing," he says. "There's
something special about that feeling, knowing that you two as a couple have
created something that will always be a reflection of your love and union."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             473 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Treasury pick Mnuchin takes risks;
Ex-Wall Street banker has record of hits and misses

BYLINE: Kevin McCoy

SECTION: ; Pg. Z3

LENGTH: 701 words


From buying a failed bank during the U.S. financial crisis to producing major
movies and serving as national finance chairman for Donald Trump's presidential
campaign, Steven Mnuchin has a record of winning risky bets.

Now the former Wall Street banker is poised for what could be his biggest
challenge yet: Trump's nominee for U.S. Treasury secretary.

Trump is expected to officially name Mnuchin, 53, as his choice for the nation's
top financial policy job as soon as Wednesday, a source close to Trump's
transition team told USA TODAY on Tuesday. The person spoke on condition of
anonymity because officials were not authorized to speak publicly about
selections.

To associates and friends who were surprised when he accepted Trump's invitation
to serve as lead campaign fundraiser after the New York presidential primary,
Mnuchin offered a potentially prescient explanation.

"Nobody's going to be like, 'Well, why did he do this?' if I end up in the
administration," he told Bloomberg Businessweek.

The news that Mnuchin is Trump's pick came as reports swirled that Trump would
nominate billionaire Wilbur Ross, also considered a risk taker, to serve as
Commerce secretary. Ross, 79, made a career out of buying ailing companies in
sometimes troubled sectors on the cheap, restructuring them and then selling
them for billions of dollars. Ross, too, could be announced as early as
Wednesday, the source close to the transition team said.

Trump has praised Mnuchin, who with the Republican National Committee helped
raise tens of millions of dollars for the billionaire businessman's campaign.
However, they weren't always the best of friends.

In a 2008 lawsuit, Trump targeted one of Mnuchin's companies in a lawsuit that
alleged Deutsche Bank and othersmproperly balked at extending multimillion
dollar construction loans on the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago.
The case ultimately was settled.

Mnuchin, a twice-married father of three, is a Yale graduate who followed his
father to renowned U.S. investment bank Goldman Sachs. He spent 17 years there,
amassing a fortune and becoming an executive vice president of the New York
City-based company before his 2003 departure.

His next stop was ESL International, the hedge fund founded by Edward Lampert,
one of Mnuchin's Yale roommates and another Goldman alumnus who now is the CEO
and chairman of Sears Holdings. Lampert tapped him for a board seat on Sears
Holdings-owned retail chain Kmart in 2003. Mnuchin left to become chief
executive of SFM Capital Managment, backed by financier George Soros.

Mnuchin's SFM tenure was similarly brief. In 2004, he co-founded private hedge
fund Dune Capital Management with Daniel Neidich, another former Goldman
executive. The fund invested in equities and real estate - including some Trump
projects.

The fund invested in the U.S. movie industry. Starting in 2006, Mnuchin reached
a three-year deal in which Dune Entertainment agreed to invest $500 million in
20th Century Fox movies, according to media reports.

The transaction launched a deeper Mnuchin dive into entertainment investments
and co-producing that included the Holblockbusters Avatar and the X-Men
franchise, American Sniper, Gravity and The Lego Movie.

In 2013, Mnuchin, filmmaker Brett Ratner and Australian businessman James Packer
joined in an entity called RatPac-Dune Entertainment that agreed to $300 million
in co-financing for as many as 75 films by Warner Bros. Pictures, according to
the movie company and media reports.

The following year, Mnuchin partnered with Ryan Kavanaugh and an investment
group to buy debt and an equity stake in Kavanaugh's Relativity Media.

Five years before taking the Relativity post, he led an investor group that
bought California-based IndyMac Bank, which collapsed during the financial
crisis.

IndyMac became OneWest Bank, with Mnuchin as chairman.

Mnuchin did not respond to USA TODAY interview requests. However, Trump's
transition staff provided a statement in which former OneWest chief executive
Joseph Otting said the bank "remained committed to fair lending and meeting the
credit needs of all borrowers in its communities, including those in distress."

Davidson Contributing: Ray Locker and Paul

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             474 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

3 WEEKS, 3 LESSONS;
ABOUT TRUMP'S EMERGING PRESIDENCY

BYLINE: Susan Page l @susanpage l USA TODAY

SECTION: ; Pg. Z1

LENGTH: 1367 words


SPENCER PLATT, GETTY IMAGES

ference Since he but was has elected tweeted , Donald or retweeted Trump hasn 77
times 't held . one news con-

CAROLYN KASTER, AP DeVos President , a fellow -elect billionaire Donald Trump
who announces did not endorse Nov. 19 him that in the Betsy primaries, will take
the role of Education secretary.

Donald Trump's tweetstorm charging, without evidence, that the election included
"millions" of illegal voters is just the latest reminder of how distinctive his
emerging presidency promises to be.

Three weeks after he surprised even his supporters by winning the White House,
the president-elect has begun to provide important clues about how he'll govern.
Through words, actions and appointments - by what he's done so far, and what he
has delayed doing - the nation's 45th president has cut a course that is a mix
of the predictable and the unprecedented.

Just like his campaign.

There's no template for Trump in office because Trump has never held office
before, the first president in American history to have neither military command
nor governmental experience. He moves into the Oval Office having had little
backing from the political establishment that typically is tapped to form a new
government. And he doesn't feel bound to follow his predecessors' practices,
even down to his plans to divide his time between Washington and his hometown of
New York.

That makes the search for clues of what's ahead even more intense than usual.
Here are three lessons we've learned already:

1. THE FIRST TWITTER PRESIDENT

How will Trump communicate with Americans? Let's look at what he's done since he
was declared the president-elect through Tuesday morning.

News conferences: zero.

Tweets and retweets: 77 and counting.

Trump hasn't had a news conference since the election. Indeed, he hasn't held a
news conference since July, when he moved from being one of the most accessible
presidential candidates in memory to one of the least. At that point, he began
to rely mostly on speaking to a handful of preferred news outlets and, notably,
social media.

Trump has more than 16 million followers on his @realDonaldTrump Twitter account
and more than 15 million on his verified Facebook page. What's more, the @POTUS
Twitter account (the acronym for president of the United States) that he'll
inherit from President Obama has more than 12 million followers.

That gives Trump a personal circulation on social media bigger than any American
newspaper or TV evening news broadcast. It's a way for him to communicate with
his supporters and spark stories in news outlets around the world without being
subjected to the follow-up questions reporters presumably would pose.

Since the election, he has posted messages along traditional presidential lines,
from wishing the Marine Corps a happy 241st birthday ("Thank you for your
service!!") to sending Thanksgiving wishes to the nation. But he also has
blasted "the failing @nytimes," castigated the cast of Broadway's Hamilton for
reading a message from stage to Vice President-elect Mike Pence, and suggested
Saturday Night Live owed him "equal time" in response to its satiric portrayals
of him.

Over the weekend, he bashed moves by Green Party nominee Jill Stein to seek
recounts in Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, states Trump narrowly carried.
He said without substantiation that fraud had given rival Hillary Clinton a lead
in the popular vote of more than 2 million. "In addition to winning the
Electoral College in a landslide, I won the popular vote if you deduct the
millions of people who voted illegally," he wrote.

Monday night, he retweeted five posts denouncing a CNN report that questioned
his evidence for that claim.

2. LOYALTY. AND ITS LIMITS .

Loyalty matters to Trump, but there seem to be limits.

Two top campaign aides quickly landed ranking White House jobs, Reince Priebus
as chief of staff and Steve Bannon as senior counselor. Alabama Sen. Jeff
Sessions, the first senator to endorse Trump, was named attorney general.
Retired Army lieutenant general Michael Flynn, a close adviser during the
campaign, will be national security adviser.

But New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who enthusiastically endorsed Trump but
remains embroiled in the Bridgegate scandal on his home turf, is on the outs,
bumped from his role as head of the transition. Former New York City mayor Rudy
Giuliani, who continued to publicly defend Trump even in the immediate wake of
the vulgar Access Hollywood video, hasn't won the job he wants, secretary of
State, at least not yet.

Which brings us to forgiveness, and its limits.

A rival candidate for the nation's top diplomatic post, and to be fourth in line
for the presidency, is Mitt Romney. During the campaign, the GOP's 2012
presidential nominee was Trump's most scathing critic from the ranks of senior
Republicans. In a speech in March, Romney called Trump "a phony, a fraud,"
"very, very not smart" and a failed businessman who advocated "ridiculous and
dangerous" ideas.

Still, Romney was scheduled to meet with Trump for a second time Tuesday to talk
about the State Department job, an idea that heartens establishment Republicans
but enrages some of those who had supported Trump at the time Romney was
denouncing him. "People feel betrayed to think that Gov. Romney, who went out of
his way to question the character and the intellect and the integrity of Donald
Trump, now our president-elect, would be given the most significant Cabinet post
of all, secretary of State," Kellyanne Conway, Trump's former campaign manager,
said Sunday on NBC's Meet the Press.

The battle between Romney and Giuliani could clear the way for some other
prospect, such as Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker of Tennessee.

Trump appointed South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley as United Nations ambassador and
Betsy DeVos as Education secretary. Both endorsed others during the Republican
primaries, and Haley was particularly critical of Trump. She labeled him
"everything a governor doesn't want in a president."

Unlike Romney, though, she did say she was voting for him in the general
election.

3. BROTHERHOOD OF BILLIONAIRES

Rich folks often fare well in the bid for presidential appointments. Major
campaign contributors routinely are nominated to serve as ambassadors to idyllic
locals - think Paris, not Kabul - and to head agencies such as the Commerce
Department. In 1953, Dwight Eisenhower's Cabinet, heavy with corporate
executives, was dubbed "nine millionaires and a plumber." (Trivia alert: Who was
the plumber? Labor Secretary Martin Durkin, a former president of the plumbers
and pipefitters union. He lasted only eight months in the job.)

But the bank accounts of Trump's Cabinet appointees seem likely to overwhelm any
previous administration. DeVos' family is heir to the huge Amway fortune. Trump
was expected to announce Wilbur Ross, the billionaire businessman known as the
"king of bankruptcy," to head Commerce. Steve Mnuchin, formerly of Goldman
Sachs, reportedly had been picked for Treasury secretary over another
billionaire, Jonathan Gray of the Blackstone private equity firm, reported to
have been a finalist.

By the way, if they take the government jobs, they will be subject to a federal
law that says executive-branch employees can't participate in government matters
in which they or their immediate families have a financial interest. That could
force them to divest some assets or put them in a blind trust.

That ethics law doesn't apply to the president and his extensive business
assets.

Trump also seems partial to generals. Besides naming Flynn, Trump has tweeted
his regard for retired Marine Corps general James ("Mad Dog") Mattis as a
prospective secretary of Defense. Mattis' appointment would require a
congressional waiver from the requirement that the Pentagon chief be out of
uniform for at least seven years. "Very impressive," Trump tweeted. "A true
General's General!"

And he met for about an hour Monday at Trump Tower with retired general David
Petraeus, who had to resign as CIA director for mishandling classified
information. He's another possible secretary of State. "Just met with General
Petraeus," Trump tweeted Monday afternoon. "Was very impressed!"

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             475 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Brown asks Trump to rescind claim of illegal voting;
Senator: 'Choice is... dangerous to our democracy.';
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: ByJessica Wehrman

SECTION: ; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 346 words


U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, is calling on President-elect Donald Trump to
retract his statements that millions of Americans voted illegally in the 2016
election.

"Your choice to spread false conspiracy theories and to claim millions of
fraudulent votes is not only unbecoming of a gracious winner, it is downright
dangerous to our democracy," Brown wrote in a letter to Trump. "There is no
evidence - zero - of any large-scale voter fraud in the United States. Not in
this election and not in any presidential election in recent memory.

"Peddling this nonsense and stoking these fears undermine our system of
government - and your own election, damaging the public's faith in our
democracy."

With less than two months beforeTrumpassumesoffice, Brown is emerging as a
consistent critic of the Republican and president-elect.

Brown on Tuesday blasted Trump's selection of Rep. Tom Price of Georgia as
Secretary of Health and Human Services, saying the pick would endanger Medicare.
Price has been generally supportive of efforts to privatize Medicare, supporting
instead block grants for such programs.

"To hand the reins to someone with Congressman Price's long record of trying to
privatize Medicare is a direct betrayal of Donald Trump's campaign promise to
protect and strengthen the program for America's seniors, and you can bet we
will do everything in our power to block any attempt to hand the Medicare
program that seniors have worked their whole lives for over to Wall Street,"
Brown said.

In his letter to Trump, Brown urged Trump to "reach out to the majority of
Americans who voted for someone else and unite Americans based on our nation's
shared values."

"Instead, we're already hearing talk of plans to privatize Social Security, to
raise the Medicare retirement age, to give huge handouts to Wall Street at the
expense of the middle class, and to roll back laws that safeguard our air and
water and protect American consumers.

That is far from the compromise and cooperation we need at this difficult time."

Contact this contributing

writer at jwehrman@

dispatch.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             476 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday

Trump taps D.C., Wall Street insiders;
Latest Cabinet pick pushed to privatize Medicare program.

BYLINE: BySteve Peoples and RicardoAlonso-Zaldivar

SECTION: ; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 597 words


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump is tapping a trio of nominees with
deep ties to Washington and Wall Street to fill out his Cabinet, including
former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as treasury secretary.

On Tuesday, Trump also chose Georgia Rep. Tom Price to oversee the Department of
Health and Human Services, picking a fierce critic of President Barack Obama's
health carelawwhohasalsochampioned efforts to privatize Medicare. And he
selected another veteran Republican, Elaine Chao, to lead the Department of
Transportation.

M nu c h i n' s o f f i c i a l announcement was expected as early as today,
according to a person familiar with the decision who insisted on anonymity in
order to confirm the pick ahead of time.

Mnuchin, 53, led Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign and
became close with the president-elect and his family. But he has no government
experience, which could prove a hurdle in navigating the tricky politics of
Washington.

If confirmed by the Senate, Mnuchin would play a central role in shaping Trump's
tax policies and infrastructure plans. He would also lead an agency tasked with
implementing international economic sanctions.

Mnuchin is expected to be joined on Trump's senior economic team by another
financier, Wilbur Ross. The billionaire investor is
consideredthe"kingofbankruptcy" for buying beaten-down companies with the
potential to deliver profits.

TrumpspentmuchofTuesday in his Manhattan skyscraper, racing through meetings
with prospective administration hires as high-profile vacancies remain - none
bigger than secretary of state. He emerged in the evening for a private dinner
with former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, who is on the shortlist for the
chief diplomat.

A transition official said the president-elect and Vice President-elect Mike
Pence will travel to Indiana Thursday for an event with Carrier,
theairconditioningcompany. During the campaign, Trump repeatedly used the news
of Carrier's plans to move some business to Mexico as criticism of Democratic
trade policies. Carrier late Tuesday tweeted, "We are pleased to
havereachedadealwithPresident-elect Trump & VP-elect Pence to keep close to
1,000 jobs in Indy."

Price, picked to lead the nation's health care system after more than a decade
in Congress, helped craft Paul Ryan's plan to privatize Medicare - which Trump
opposed in the campaign.

Price's selection raised questions about Trump's commitment to Medicare, among
other programs he repeatedly vowed to preserve before the election. The Georgia
congressman led GOP efforts to transform Medicare into a voucher system, a
change that would dramatically reduce government spending on the program that
serves 57 million.

" C h a i r m a n P r i c e , a renowned physician, has earned a reputation for
being a tireless problem solver and the go-to expert on health care policy,
making him the ideal choice to serve in this capacity," Trump said. "He is
exceptionally qualified to shepherd our commitment to repeal and replace
Obamacare and bring affordable and accessible health care to every American."

Trump, in a 2015 interview promoted on his campaign website, pledged not to cut
programs that Republicans have fought for years to cut. "I'm not going to cut
Social Security like every other Republican. And I'm not going to cut Medicare
or Medicaid," Trump told the Daily Signal. He later changed his mind on
Medicaid.

Like Price, Elaine Chao is well-known in Washington. She was the first
Asian-American woman to serve in a president's Cabinet, as labor secretary under
George W. Bush.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             477 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Palin a candidate for Trump VA secretary;
Facebook video lays out her proposals for veterans' care.;
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: By Kellie Mejdrich

SECTION: ; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 459 words


Former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin would take the helm of an agency marked by
scandal and crisis.

WASHINGTON - Former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin with a post on her public Facebook
account appeared Wednesday to confirm a report that she's under consideration by
President-elect Donald Trump to become secretary of the Department of Veterans
Affairs.

The post included a highly stylized video produced by SARAHPAC, her political
action committee, about the former vice presidential candidate's ideas on how to
fix the troubled agency, and a link to the ABC news report that first broke the
news of her vetting by the Trump transition team. ABC said that both a Palin
aide and the Trump transition team confirmed she's under consideration to run
the VA.

"We should be grateful we'll soon have a commander-in-chief who will champion
our vets and honor the promises our nation made; a pro-private sector individual
who surely understands bigger government is NOT the answer; a President who
promised to drain the swamp and clean up all government corruption ... all
things our vets and active duty troops deserve," Palin wrote.

Palin, who unsuccessfully ran on a ticket with Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., in
2008, would take the helm of an agency marked by scandal and crisis. The VA also
stands at a policy crossroads, with many lawmakers in favor of allowing veterans
to more widely use private doctors and hospitals, a plan vehemently opposed by
many Democrats and some veterans groups. In 2014, lawmakers scrambled to expand
access to VA health care when it was discovered that some veterans seeking care
were waiting so long that they died before seeing a doctor.

Palin's video lays out three major proposals for federal veterans' care:

? A l l ow v e t e r a n s t o receive care in the private market through
vouchers

? Allow veterans re-entering the civilian workforce to use military
certifications in place of civilian ones for job skills

? Maintain veterans' retirement benefits

Those changes won't come without a price. For example, lawmakers are currently
grappling with how to extend a $10 billion private care program that expires in
August 2017 or whenever the money allocated to it runs out. The program, while
designed to provide a new route of access for patients facing distance issues or
long wait times, is mostly serving veterans who couldn't get the care they
wanted at a VA facility. That has triggered questions about whether the program
is being administered in the way it was intended.

House authorizers have a slew of concerns about the way the VA is spending money
on a construction project in Denver and reports of lavish art purchases at
medical facilities - issues which were the subject of a federal subpoena issued
by House lawmakers in September.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             478 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Turner: Despite his rhetoric, Trump committed to NATO;
Congressman lauds president-elect's support of military.;
TRUMP TRANSITION

BYLINE: ByJana Heigl andJessica Wehrman

SECTION: ; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 425 words


U.S. Rep. Mike Turner, R-Dayton, speaking at the Hudson Institute, a nonpartisan
D.C.-based think tank, said he agrees with Trump on the principle that NATO
partners must increase their defense spending for the military alliance.

WA S H I N GTO N - R e p . Mike Turner on Wednesday offered hopeful words about
President-elect Donald Trump's commitment to NATO, praising Trump's commitment
both to increasing military spending and demands that NATO partners beef up
their investment in the alliance.

The message was a contrast to the substance of Trump's comments about NATO
during the campaign.

Turner, speaking at the Hudson Institute, a nonpartisan D.C.-based think tank,
is at the end of his two-year term as president of the NATO Parliamentary
Assembly. The European-U.S. alliance has existed since 1949.

Trump stunned NATO allies during the presidential campaign by appearing to make
U.S. military support for NATO member states conditional on whether those
nations had invested sufficiently in the alliance. Asked by the New York Times
whether he'd protect NATO countries if Russia attacked them, Trump responded by
saying that some partners had not been meeting their financial responsibilities
to the alliance.

Under the terms of the alliance's Article 5, an attack against one state is
considered an attack against every member of the alliance.

The Dayton Republican said he believes Trump is committed to Article 5, and he
said he agrees with Trump on the principle that NATO partners must increase
their defense spending for the alliance. While the U.S. spends approximately 3.6
percent of its gross domestic product on defense for NATO countries, Germany
only spends 1.2 percent of its GDP on defense

With the election over, Turner has become an intermediary between the
president-elect and NATO leadership. Turner said he helped to set up a
conversation between Trump and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg - the
first conversation between the two since Trump was elected president. Turner
worked with Vice-President-elect Mike Pence to set up the meeting.

"They had a very good conversation," he said. "What I'm hearing from the
administration is not only an absolute commitment to Article 5 but an absolute
commitment that partners need to increase their defense spending."

He said he would not take the Trump's campaign overtures toward Russian
President Vladimir Putin as "a walk away from the commitment to NATO or the
commitment to building up our military. The President-elect has been very clear
about increasing our military strength."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             479 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Stein requests full hand recount of presidential vote in Michigan;
ELECTION 2016

BYLINE: ByDavid Eggert

SECTION: ; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 356 words


LANSING,MICH.-GreenParty presidential nominee Jill Stein on Wednesday requested
a full hand recount of Michigan's presidential vote, making it the third state
narrowly won by Republican Donald Trump where she wants another look at the
results.

Stein previously asked for recounts of the votes in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

President-elect Trump defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton by about 10,700 votes
out of nearly 4.8 million ballots cast in Michigan, or two-tenths of a
percentage point. But Stein alleges that irregularities and the possibility that
vote scanning devices could have been hacked call the results into question.
Electionsofficialsinallthreestates have expressed confidence in the results.

Michigan's recount could startasearlyasFriday,though a challenge to the recount
by Trump may delay it.

"We simply won't know if there was hacking or interference in this election
unless we look at the votes - every vote systematically, impartially and by
hand," Jessica Clarke, a lawyer for the Stein campaign, said during a news
conference outside of the Michigan Bureau of Elections.

University of Michigan computer scientist Alex Halderman, who says voting
machines and optical scanners that count ballots are prone to errors and outside
manipulation, told reporters that the recount will show "for sure" whether
cyber-attacks have occurred.

"More importantly, (the recount) will provide a defense in the future and a
deterrent to any adversary who might want to try to hack future elections."

Trump's victory is highly unlikely to be reversed in any of the states.

The GOP says a Michigan recount would cost taxpayers far more than the $973,000
Stein paid when filing her recount petition.

Secretary of State Ruth Johnson, a Republican, called Stein's request "unusual,"
especially since there is no evidence of fraud or "even a credible allegation of
any tampering.

"Nevertheless, county clerkshavebeengearingupto complete this recount under a
very challenging (Dec. 13) deadline," she said. "They'll be working nights and
weekends. I know they will do a great job because we have some of the best
clerks in the country here in Michigan."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             480 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Trump kicks off campaign-style thank-you tour in Indiana, Ohio;
He touts Carrier deal alongside Pence in Indianapolis

BYLINE: David Jackson

SECTION: ; Pg. Z3

LENGTH: 613 words


Donald Pennsylvania Trump , is , with staging Rep similar . Lou Barletta events
at in an the October next few rally weeks in .

Presidential candidate Donald Trump loved the raucous political rallies that
marked his campaign - loved them so much he's doing them again as
president-elect.

After a pit stop in Indianapolis to tout a new jobs agreement with the Carrier
heating and air conditioning company, Trump headed to Cincinnati later Thursday
to open a "Thank You Tour" of swing states that put him over the top in the
Electoral College.

"I am grateful for all of your support," Trump tweeted in promoting the Ohio
event. "THANK YOU!"

In what looks like an unprecedented post-election victory lap for a
president-elect, the Trump team is working on events in other big states he
carried last month, including North Carolina, Iowa, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and
Florida.

Trump and aides called the tour a chance for him to thank the voters who put him
in office, though some analysts questioned whether they are a waste of time that
could otherwise be devoted to the task of putting together a presidential
administration.

David Cohen, a political science professor at the University of Akron who
specializes in While House staffing, said he finds it "baffling" he would spend
so much time campaigning.

"There's so much to do when you've been elected president," Cohen said. "There
are so many jobs to fill."

Making his first public appearance since the Nov. 8 election, Trump and Vice
President-elect Mike Pence - also the governor of Indiana - stopped Thursday at
a Carrier plant in Indianapolis.

After planning to lay off some 1,400 workers and shift some operations to
Mexico, Carrier has agreed to keep a plant open and retain around 1,000
employees. Details remain hazy, including whether some Carrier employees will
still lose jobs and the nature of the tax breaks the company is getting to stay
in Indiana.

"Companies are not going to leave the United States anymore without
consequences," Trump said after touring the Carrier plant, echoing comments he
made on the campaign trail.

The Cincinnati stop calls for a victory rally that mirror the ones Trump held
during the campaign. In Ohio and state after state, the Republican nominee
denounced the political establishment in general and Democratic rival Hillary
Clinton in particular, while his supporters chanted things like "lock her up!"
and shouted epithets at members of the press.

Previous presidents-elect also have done campaign-style events, but they tended
to be smaller in scope and took place closer to the Inauguration Day of Jan. 20.

In 1993, President-elect Bill Clinton conducted a campaign-style bus tour that
took him from Thomas Jefferson's home at Monticello in Virginia to the Lincoln
Memorial in Washington. Clinton also did some campaigning shortly after the 1992
election, stumping in Georgia during a run-off for a U.S. Senate seat.

Just before his inauguration in 2009, President-elect Barack Obama took a
whistle-stop train ride from New York City to Washington, including a stop in
Wilmington, Del., to pick up Vice President-elect Joe Biden.

Trump has frequently cited his love of well-attended political rallies, and some
analysts described his thank you tour as the inevitable continuation of a
campaign also fueled by social media and 24/7 media.

Martha Joynt Kumar, director of the bipartisan White House Transition Project,
said Trump has good reason for wanting to be with his people.

After days of being "cloistered" in Trump Tower, interviewing job applicants and
making appointments, she said, "he understandably has a need to go out and get
back to what brought him there - what won him presidency."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             481 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

34 percent voted early, set Ohio record;
71 percent of registered Ohioans voted on Nov. 8.;
ELECTION 2016

BYLINE: ByAnthony Shoemaker

SECTION: ; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 314 words


President-elect Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.

More than 71 percent of registered Ohioans voted in the Nov. 8 election and the
state set a new high for the number of early voters.

But while turnout was among the highest in recent elections, it was far from the
record 77 percent voter turnout in 1992, when Bill Clinton won Ohio and the
presidency against then-President George H.W. Bush and independent candidate
Ross Perot.

Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted Thursday certified the official results of
the 2016 General Election.

Here are some of the highlights:

? 5,607,641 Ohioans cast ballots out of 7,861,025 registered voters, for a voter
turnout of 71.33 percent;

? President-Elect Donald Trump carried 80 of Ohio's 88 counties - including
Montgomery, Clark, Butler, Greene, Miami, Warren, Preble, Darke, Shelby and
Champaign counties;

?1,890,069 absentee ballots were cast, topping the 2012 total of 1,876,174 and
the 2008 figure of 1,717,256. About 34 percent of all ballots cast came before
Election Day.

? Democrats historically have done better in early voting, but that may not be
the case this year. Of the counted absentee ballots, 56.8 percent were cast in
counties won by Trump and just 43.2 percent in the counties won by Clinton.

?154,965 provisional ballots were cast, down from the 208,084 that had
provisional ballots in 2012. The provisional ballots broke
roughlyevenlybetweenPresident-elect Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, with Trump
receiving 50.3 percent and Hillary Clinton 49.6 percent. "As we close the books
on another election, one thing that is abundantly clear is that Ohio is a
national leader in elections administration as our state once again has
delivered a well-run election," Husted said in a statement. "Despite the
unwarranted predictions of a troubled election, it is clear...the 2016
presidential election in Ohio was free of any major problems."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             482 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

A nationalist, populist tide is rolling through the West;
FROM THE RIGHT

BYLINE: Pat Buchanan

SECTION: ; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 545 words


Now that the British have voted to secede from the European Union and America
has chosen a president who has never before held public office, the French
appear to be following suit.

In Sunday's runoff to choose a candidate to face Marine Le Pen of the National
Front in next spring's presidential election, the center-right Republicans chose
Francois Fillon in a landslide.

While Fillon sees Margaret Thatcher as a role model in fiscal policy, he is a
socially conservative Catholic who supports family values, wants to confront
Islamist extremism, control immigration, restore France's historic identity and
end sanctions on Russia.

As Le Pen is favored to win the first round of the presidential election and
Fillon the second in May, closer Paris-Putin ties seem certain. Europeans
themselves are pulling Russia back into Europe, and separating from the
Americans.

Next Sunday, Italy holds a referendum on constitutional reforms backed by Prime
Minister Matteo Renzi. If the referendum, trailing in the polls, fails, says
Renzi, he will resign.

Opposing Renzi is the secessionist Northern League, the Five Star Movement of
former comedian Beppe Grillo, and the Forza Italia of former Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi, a pal of Putin's.

"Up to eight of Italy's troubled banks risk failure," if Renzi's government
falls, says the Financial Times. One week from today, the front pages of the
Western press could be splashing the newest crisis of the EU.

Meanwhile, the door to the EU appears to be closing for Muslim Turkey, as the
European Parliament voted to end accession talks with Ankara and its autocratic
president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Not only Europe but the whole world President-elect Trump is about to inherit
seems in turmoil, with old regimes and parties losing their hold, and
nationalist, populist and rightist forces rising.

NATO's Turkey and our Arab ally, Egypt, both ruled by repressive regimes, are
less responsive to U.S. leadership.

Meanwhile, North Korea, under Kim Jong Un, continues to test nuclear warheads
and missiles that can hit all of South Korea and Japan and reach all U.S. bases
in East Asia and the Western Pacific.

The U.S. is obligated by treaty to defend South Korea, where we still have
28,500 troops, and Japan, as well as the Philippines, where new populist
President Rodrigo Duterte, cursing the West, is pivoting toward Beijing.

Putin has begun a buildup of nuclear-capable offensive and defensive missiles in
Kaliningrad, its enclave between Poland and Lithuania. Should we get into a
confrontation with the Russians in the Eastern Baltic, how many of our NATO
allies, some now openly pro-Putin, would stand beside us?

Regimes are falling. Old parties are dying, new parties rising. Old allegiances
are fraying, and old allies drifting away. The forces of nationalism and
populism have been unleashed all over the West and all over the world. There is
no going back.

U.S. policy seems set in concrete by war guarantees and treaty commitments.

We have great rivals and adversaries. We've fought wars in Afghanistan, Iraq,
Syria, Libya and Yemen that availed us nothing.

America is at a plastic moment in history.

And America needs nothing so much as reflective thought about a quarter century
of failures - and fresh thinking about the future.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             483 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Wisconsin begins election recount;
Official in Michigan cites notification of probable challenge.;
ELECTION 2016

BYLINE: Julie Bosman

SECTION: ; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 440 words


Elections officials check serial numbers on sealed ballots as the recount of
ballots in the presidential election begins Thursday in Elkhorn, Wis. For the
next 12 days, officials across Wisconsin will recount nearly 3 million ballots.

ELKHORN, WIS. - The basement room was cleared of pens with blue or black ink,
items that could mar paper ballots. Anyone wearing a coat was told to leave it
in the hallway, in case something nefarious was hidden underneath. Water
bottles, purses and keys were placed on the floor, leaving the large plastic
tables smooth and uncluttered.

And at 9 a.m. Thursday, with the brisk rap of a county clerk's wooden gavel, the
first recount of the 2016 presidential election was underway in Wisconsin, with
another recount to begin today in the neighboring battleground state of
Michigan.

For the next 12 days, election officials across all 72 counties in Wisconsin
will work days, nights and weekends to recount nearly 3 million ballots, an
effort initiated and financed by Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential
candidate, who has suggested that voting machines in the state could have been
hacked.

Very few people expect that the recount will reverse the outcome of the
election. President-elect Donald Trump triumphed in Wisconsin over Hillary
Clinton by 22,177 votes, and in Michigan by 10,704 votes, a margin that a lawyer
for Clinton, Marc Elias, said had never been overcome in a recount. Legal
challenges to the vote in Pennsylvania, where Trump leads by 70,638 votes, are
also underway.

As Wisconsin was beginning to take another look at its votes, the efforts in
Michigan and Pennsylvania remained in flux.

An official in the Michigan secretary of state's office said in a Twitter post
that its elections bureau had been notified that an objection to the recount
would probably be filed, without specifying whether the challenge would come
from Trump. Republicans in Michigan have voiced concern that the process will
cost local governments millions of dollars.

In Pennsylvania, where Stein's efforts have more hurdles, election officials in
Philadelphia said Thursday that, pending litigation, they would begin recounting
votes in 75 precincts today, a small portion of the nearly 1,700 in the city.
The elections commission, though, denied a request for a full forensic audit of
the city's voting machines.

In Elkhorn, a city of about 10,000 people in Walworth County in southern
Wisconsin, the recount began in a government building downtown. Workers are
expecting to count ballots for close to 12 hours a day until the task is
complete - their deadline is Dec. 12. The Electoral College will vote Dec. 19.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


                             484 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

op-ed

BYLINE: JONATHAN PERLOE

SECTION: OPINION; A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 760  words


Two days after Hillary Clinton won the popular vote but lost the election to
Donald Trump, an online petition took off; it now has more than 4 million
signatures. Recognizing that Clinton won the popular vote by more than 1 million
ballots, it calls on the Electoral College to cast "faithless" votes to elect
her president. I signed the petition out of anger, fear and despair of electing
the most unqualified and dangerous person to lead our nation in modern history,
perhaps ever.

I soon realized that altering the outcome of the Electoral College's vote is a
fool's errand. As Vox commentator Andrew Prokop wrote, "electors overturning
Trump particularly would certainly cause a constitutional crisis, because there
is no world in which the Republican Party ... would accept Clinton taking the
presidency in this way."

But I'm unwilling to stand idly by to see the second president this century take
office without winning the popular vote. Connecticut should join the National
Popular Vote Interstate Compact. Under the compact, all of a state's electoral
votes would go to the presidential candidate who receives the most votes in all
50 states and the District of Columbia. The compact would take effect when
enacted by states possessing a majority of electoral votes, the 270 required to
elect a president.

The compact is a straightforward means of enabling the electorate to express its
will without a constitutional amendment abolishing the Electoral College. In two
of the last five elections and nearly one of every 11 elections since 1789, the
Electoral College has awarded the presidency to the loser of the popular vote.
The Electoral College is an anachronism that has no place in our democracy. It
was conceived by the founders to appease southern slave-owning states and for an
anti-democratic fear of the uneducated hoi polloi. In "The Federalist Papers,"
Alexander Hamilton was plainspoken about the need to ensure "that the office of
president will never fall to the lot of any man who is not in an eminent degree
endowed with the requisite qualifications."

The means by which we elect our president should not have its origins in racist,
anti-populist motives. The apportionment of state electors in numbers
corresponding to each state's representation in Congress is an affront to the
principle of one person, one vote. The votes of citizens in less populous states
have far more weight than do votes from more populated states. Wyoming has a
population of roughly one-half million and three electoral votes. If
Connecticut's citizens had the same voting power, it would have 18 electoral
votes rather than seven.

The 18th-century voting mechanism distorts the political process by encouraging
candidates to focus on just a handful of swing states that decide who will
become president. The consequence on voting participation is substantial: last
week in 14 states where the margin was close, 65 percent of eligible voters cast
ballots, a 16 percent higher turnout than in the rest of the nation.

There is nothing nefarious about the compact. The U.S. Constitution states,
"Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct,
a Number of Electors." In her 2013 testimony to the Government Administration
and Elections Committee, Secretary of the State Denise Merrill said, "this plan
is consistent with the Constitution." The compact has widespread public support.
A 2009 poll in Connecticut showed 74 percent in favor of direct elections,
including two-thirds of Republicans.

Eleven jurisdictions, including Massachusetts, New York and Rhode Island, have
passed bills favoring the compact. They represent 165 electoral votes, more than
half the number needed for activation. The bill enjoys bipartisan support.

In 2014 Republican Newt  Gingrich wrote, "America would be better served with a
presidential election process that treated citizens across the country equally.
The National Popular Vote bill accomplishes this ... ."

Some state legislators argue the approach would disenfranchise voters because
Connecticut electors would vote for the winner of the national popular vote, not
the state's winner. The argument lacks merit. The bill gives every individual's
vote equal weight, regardless of where they live.

Let's elect the president as we do every other elected official in the country,
by the winner of the popular vote.

Jonathan Perloe is vice chairman of communications for the Greenwich Democratic
Town Committee. This was also signed by 54 members of Pantsuit Nation CT from 36
Connecticut towns.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             485 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Fear Is The Reason

SECTION: OPINION; A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 696  words


Fear Is The Reason

Protesters Not Going Quietly

President-elect Donald Trump tweeted that it's "very unfair" that people are
protesting now that he's been elected. I'd like to explain something:

We're not protesting because we didn't get our way; we're protesting because
we're afraid.

We're afraid of today. His election has empowered the bigots of this country.
His supporters have been committing acts of violence, verbal and physical,
against marginalized people in this country.

We're afraid for the future. Will there be a registry for Muslims? Will he waste
our federal budget on a wall along the Mexican border? Will he start trade wars
and real wars across the globe? Will the Affordable Care Act be repealed,
causing millions to lose their insurance? The list goes on.

It's not "very unfair" that we're protesting. It's "very unfair" that we must
fear for our future. So get ready - we're not going away quietly.

Vickey Allen, Middletown

Unify, Give Trump A Chance

I have voted in various presidential elections for about 40 years, but must
admit never seeing an election with so much division.

There are many opinions being expressed in the media, mostly against Donald
Trump. He is a successful businessman who has made lots of money (as has Hillary
Clinton). He is obviously not stupid (he got elected). He may not be perfect,
but he is smart.

With their protests and angry refusal to accept the results of the election, it
seems the "deplorables" are showing themselves all over the country. It really
is too bad we are unable to unify and give the president-elect a chance.

Tom Cruickshanks, Windsor

Trump Dangerous To Climate

President-elect Donald Trump has tweeted that "global warming was created by and
for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing noncompetitive." He has
appointed a global warming denier, Myron Ebell, to lead the transition team at
the Environmental Protection Agency, where he will oversee dismantling federal
policies directed toward reducing emission rates.

Undoing America's leadership role in the world's 2015 agreement to battle global
warming would not only unleash further U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, but also
unravel the worldwide agreement.

Scientists around the globe have clearly shown that burning fossil fuels causes
increased carbon dioxide emissions, and that the added carbon dioxide causes
warming of the planet and its resulting environmental harms. Continued
unconstrained emissions will wreak worsening environmental damage, leaving our
children to contend with the consequences.

I spoke about the science of global warming to high school students two days
after the election. They thanked me profusely. It's clear they understood the
dangers that continued warming would present for their future. Especially for
their sakes, we should oppose Trump's policies.

Henry E. Auer, New Haven

The writer, who holds a Ph.D. in physical biochemistry, has published the Global
Warming Blog at warmgloblog.blogspot.com since 2010.

Heed Washington's Words

In 1790, President George Washington wrote a letter to the Jewish congregation
of Newport, R.I. Washington said that he hoped the United States would be a
country that gave "to bigotry no sanction, to persecution no assistance."

With all the anger and divisiveness we saw in the presidential campaign, I think
many Americans would be wise to heed the words of our first president.

Thomas D. Witt, Middletown

Voting Result Sensationalized

I was disappointed in the Nov. 10 Page 1 headline, "Hope, Anger" for the story
confirming Donald Trump's election victory. It seemed like emotional
sensationalism. A headline saying simply "Trump Elected President" would have
been more appropriate, and the subhead could have referred to the divided
reaction of hope and anger.

In the same issue, on Page A9, I found Hillary Clinton's comment to "respect the
peaceful transfer of power" disturbing. One of many reasons I voted for Donald
Trump was because I sensed Clinton was ambitious for power. In our republic, we
should have leadership, not power. We need an ethical and responsible leader.

Those of us who believe in prayer should pray for our country and its
leadership.

Lucinda Hotkowski, Deep River

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             486 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Trump dispatches his 'secret weapon'

BYLINE: Lisa Mascaro

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 702  words



HIGHLIGHT: Vice president-elect Mike Pence, left, meets Thursday with Sen. Chuck
Schumer, D-N.Y.JIM WATSON/Getty-AFP


WASHINGTON - Vice President-elect Mike Pence stood before a roomful of House
Republicans on Thursday and asked how many had his cellphone number.

Chuckles of laughter rippled through the private meeting in the Capitol
basement.

"A lot of you do," Pence said, according to those in attendance.

The former congressman is proving an effective envoy for President-elect Donald
Trump, and his Capitol Hill visit offered a preview of the crucial role many
believe the outgoing Indiana governor will play as liaison between lawmakers and
the Trump White House.

"He is the secret weapon," said Rep.  David Schweikert, R-Ariz., who was among
those fiscal conservatives initially reluctant to support the party's
presidential nominee. "There's going to be tough moments, and he's someone you
can pick up the phone and call."

Dispatching Pence to the Hill was part of the Trump team's ongoing effort to
reverse the narrative of a rocky presidential transition.

Late Thursday, The Associated Press reported that Trump offered retired Lt. Gen.
Michael Flynn the job of national security adviser.

Flynn, who served as the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, has
advised Trump on national security issues for months.

The official wouldn't say whether Flynn had accepted the job. The official was
not authorized to discuss the offer publicly and insisted on anonymity.

High-profile visitors, many eyeing top Cabinet posts, have streamed in and out
of Trump Tower in New York. They included Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, Wall
Street executive Steven Mnuchin, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and several
of Trump's children. South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley was thought to have visited
but was not observed by reporters entering the building.

Also reportedly ready to meet with the president-elect was former GOP
presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who had called Trump a "phony" and a "fraud"
during the campaign. According to numerous media reports, the pair planned to
speak over the weekend.

On Thursday in New York, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had a face-to-face
meeting with Trump that raised some eyebrows because it went beyond the short
congratulatory phone call that usually occurs between a president-elect and a
world leader.

Abe described the meeting as "really cordial" and said he was convinced that he
was able to establish a relationship of trust, The AP reported.

Trump advisers downplayed the session as a private, informal meeting.

During a newly launched daily conference call to update the news media on the
transition, Trump spokesman Jason Miller said that by next week the team will
have announced a roster of aides who will begin contacting various federal
agencies to discuss transition matters. Delays in making those contacts have
caused alarm among some.

"I'm hearing from all these agencies that they're beginning to panic - that
they've heard from no one on the transition team," said Sen. Claire McCaskill,
D-Mo. "So I think it's a problem."

Miller said the first "landing team" will focus on national security, reaching
out to officials from the Pentagon, the State Department and other security
agencies. Officials said the Pentagon team could arrive as early as Friday.

An economic team is promised by Tuesday and a domestic team by Wednesday, Miller
said.

The transition team has been battling the perception of disorganization and
infighting, particularly after the departure earlier this week of key advisers.

The shake-up led to speculation about the outsize influence of Trump's
son-in-law, Jared Kushner, whom some blamed for pushing out former transition
chairman Chris Christie and his allies.

Sending Pence to Capitol Hill served as a reminder of one the reasons Trump
chose the even-tempered conservative for his team.

Even doubters of the president-elect came away feeling more at ease with Pence's
presence.

"He made it clear that he and the president-elect want to work with all of us,
no matter what position we took during the presidential campaign," said Rep.
Carlos Curbelo, R-Fla., an outspoken opponent of Trump. "I'm very encouraged.
He's going to be very engaged - perhaps in recent history the vice president
that will most be engaged in the Congress."

lisa.mascaro@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             487 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Global Relations

BYLINE: SHASHANK BENGALI and RAMIN MOSTAGHIM

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 512  words


TEHRAN, Iran - Trump had sharp words for Iran during his presidential campaign.

He promised to revisit or even tear up the deal over Iran's nuclear weapons
program. Any Iranian vessels that harass the U.S. Navy in the Persian Gulf, he
said, should be "shot out of the water."

But Iranian leaders appear to see reasons for hope in a Trump presidency.

For hard-liners in the Islamic Republic, Trump has bolstered their refrain that
the United States, whatever agreements it signs with Iran, is not to be trusted
- a boost to their voice in domestic politics.

Meanwhile, moderate President Hassan Rouhani and his allies are playing down
concerns over Trump's rhetoric. Some quietly express optimism that Trump  would
be open to negotiations in other areas dividing Washington and Tehran.

A Trump administration could be helpful in advancing Iran's road map to a
political solution in Syria, some Iranian analysts suggest.

"President Rouhani is adapting his government to the new president-elect, and
everybody here is betting on the flexibility of President Trump when he begins
steering America in January," said Nader Karimi Juni, an independent political
analyst.

As a candidate, Trump frequently denounced the nuclear deal struck between Iran
and six world powers, including the United States, in 2015.

The agreement, which went into effect in January, was a signature foreign policy
achievement of the Obama administration. Under its terms, Iran agreed to
significant restrictions on its nuclear program - which Western officials feared
could be used to produce a bomb, though Tehran says it is only for civilian
purposes.

The deal called for easing of economic sanctions against Iran, though some U.S.
sanctions remain in place targeting Iran's support for militant groups and its
ballistic missile program.

Trump termed the deal "disastrous," saying it conceded too much to Iran. He said
it would be one of the first things he would renegotiate as president. Iran has
shown no willingness to reopen talks on an agreement that has reduced its
diplomatic isolation and opened the way to fresh foreign investment, although it
has failed to bring  the sweeping economic improvements Rouhani promised.

In Washington, the  House has voted  to bar the sale or lease of more than 200
Boeing and Airbus commercial aircraft to Iran, a move that would scuttle deals
already authorized by the Obama administration and potentially worth billions of
dollars.

By a 243-174 vote Thursday, lawmakers passed legislation that would prohibit the
Treasury Department from issuing the licenses U.S. banks would need to complete
the transactions.

The bill must now clear the Senate, where the measure would face stiff
opposition from Democrats. President Barack Obama would veto the bill if it
reached his desk, according to the White House.

The man who will replace Obama, meanwhile, has drawn criticism in Iran for
saying that Iranian ships that provoked the U.S. would be "shot out of the
water," a reference to Iran's brief detention of 10 American sailors who veered
into Iranian waters in January.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             488 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Pelosi faces Ohio challenger for minority leader post

BYLINE: Andrew Taylor and Mary Clare Jalonick

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 347  words



HIGHLIGHT: Pelosi Ryan


WASHINGTON - House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi is facing a challenge from a
frustrated younger member in her caucus as the party faces another two years in
the minority.

Ohio Rep. Tim Ryan said Thursday that he will challenge the California lawmaker,
who has led the party since 2002 and was the first female speaker from 2007-11,
in leadership elections later this month.

Democrats have been reeling since last week when the party won fewer seats than
she had predicted and lost the presidency.

"What we are doing right now is not working," Ryan, 43, said in a letter to
colleagues.

Ryan is from a Rust Belt state that President Barack Obama won in 2008 and 2012,
but that President-elect Donald Trump won easily this year. Along with younger
members in the caucus, Democrats from several Midwestern states have expressed
concern that the party has become too focused on the two coasts and forgotten
the working-class voters in the middle. Pelosi is from San Francisco.

Pelosi is still the favorite to win another term as leader. She said in
announcing her candidacy Wednesday that she has the backing of two-thirds of the
caucus, though Ryan questioned that number.

The election is Nov. 30. It had been scheduled for Thursday but was postponed
until after Thanksgiving.

Pelosi, 76, is a survivor who enjoys enormous respect and goodwill among most
Democrats, even as many of her closest allies have left Congress. She has
managed to maintain unity within the diverse flock of House Democrats and is an
unparalleled fundraiser for them, collecting more than $100 million in the past
cycle alone.

Ryan's bid marks the second time Pelosi has faced a challenge after a dismal
Democratic performance in an election. She easily beat back North Carolina Rep.
Heath Shuler 150-43 after the party lost the majority in 2010.

Meanwhile, Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine said Thursday that he will seek re-election
in 2018, but he is ruling out a presidential bid in 2020.

The former Democratic vice presidential nominee said his place is in the Senate
and his decision not to run in 2020 is final.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             489 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

A Good Idea, But Popular Vote Plan Lacks Support Here

BYLINE: DAN HAAR

SECTION: CONNECTICUT; B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901  words


A move to do away with the Electoral College as we know it is in full swing
across the nation, with Donald Trump  winning the presidency while collecting
fewer total votes than his opponent.

Connecticut will have a bill introduced by Rep. James Albis, D-East Haven, who
has brought up the measure before. And Gov. Dannel P. Malloy is on record as
favoring it.

But don't look for the General Assembly to adopt it in the coming 2017
legislative session. A yes vote in either chamber appears out of reach for
several reasons.

Advocates who say the national popular vote is fair because it counts every
citizen's opinion, while the Electoral College is unfair because it
disenfranchises millions of voters, have it only partly right. Both systems have
distortions, though a national popular vote could be fairer if done correctly.

Nationwide, Democrats are leading the charge as they have for years. That's
partly because Democrats, for now at least, enjoy a popular lead in both
registration and voter leaning, according to my analysis of tracking by Gallup
in 2015 - although the Gallup results show Republicans have made up huge ground
and now lead in the number of states, based on voter leaning.

Trump is the fourth or fifth candidate - depending how you count - to win the
presidency but not the popular vote. The two recent popular-vote winners who
lost, Al Gore in 2000 and Hillary Clinton this year, are Democrats.

The route to a change would be through a compact among states. If states
representing a majority of electoral votes formally adopt a measure - using the
exact same language -to commit their electoral tallies to the national popular
vote winner, then it would take effect, barring a successful legal challenge,
which could happen in this nutty political era.

So far, 10 states and the District of Columbia - totaling 165 electoral votes -
have joined the compact. All of them are safely Democratic states, including New
York and California, but the measure has garnered significant Republican backing
in some places, Oklahoma among them.

Why not Connecticut? We certainly don't see many campaign stops in presidential
elections after the primary, and since we're in the most populous corridor, that
would probably change.

But in recent years, Democrats in charge of the House and Senate have been
lukewarm to the idea, perhaps simply because of tradition. Connecticut tends to
cling to the way things are in many areas, ranging from alcohol sales rules
(only recently allowing Sunday sales) to tax reform to early voting.

Few Connecticut Republicans have supported the national popular vote. Senate
President Pro Tem Martin Looney, D-New Haven, has never been a strong public
supporter and isn't talking about it now.

In the House, Joe Aresimowicz, the incoming speaker, more left-leaning than his
predecessor, said he's been "intrigued" by the idea in the past. But he said
he's not likely to make a move in the coming session.

"The problem I would have with it now is that it would look like it would be in
direct response to the election," he said.

That could undermine a Trump administration. "I want him to be the best
president he can be," Aresimowicz said.

Moreover, a vote would require Democrats to expend political capital that they
don't have. They only hold an 18-18 tie in Senate seats, and their House
majority is down to 79-72 - in a year when we face a brutal, $1.3 billion budget
shortfall that will suck up all the oxygen.

Still, in the long run, Connecticut would be wise to commit its seven Electoral
College votes to the national popular vote winner. The current system, said
Albis, who won re-election by a whopping nine votes, could be considered a form
of gerrymandering, in which district lines distort the overall outcome.

"It makes sense just to level the playing field," Albis said. "It makes the
election itself more fair."

"It's time to modernize the way we do this," said Cheri Quickmire, Connecticut
director of Common Cause, which is strongly behind the move.

It's certainly more fair, but not without problems. A national vote would have
candidates in both parties flying from big city to big city, never leaving the
metro areas for the countryside. Just as the current system favors swing states
with federal grants and other benefits, according to several studies, the
national popular vote would have first-term presidents showering cities with
largesse.

Perhaps a better way to do it would be a hybrid, with an additional 538
electoral votes allocated according to the popular vote, and the current
Electoral College's 538 votes kept intact, with 539 electoral votes needed for a
win.

Opponents who say a popular vote would lead to national recount nightmares have
a point, but we ought to be able to use technology to get around that.

Since Election Day, many Democrats have argued that Clinton should be the
rightful winner because she will have outpolled Trump by more than 1 million
votes when the tallies are done. Trump claimed in a Tweet that he'd have won the
popular vote if he tried, and a close look at the numbers shows he's probably
right.

Simply put, there was more room for Trump to pick up votes in big, uncontested,
Democratic states such as New York and California than there was for Clinton in
states such as Texas.

In short, the outcome in 2016 is not an argument that the Electoral College is
unjust. But reform is in order anyway, someday.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             490 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Trump stays right for first picks

BYLINE: Evan Halper ;and David S. Cloud

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 812  words



HIGHLIGHT: Donald Trump picked Sen. Jeff Sessions for attorney general, Rep.
Mike Pompeo as CIA chief and Gen. Michael Flynn for national security
adviser.MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EPA LARRY W. SMITH/EPA David Paul Morris/Bloomberg


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump began filling his Cabinet on Friday
with stalwarts of the right, signaling with a trio of top national security and
law enforcement selections that he will aggressively pursue promises he made
during the campaign that have caused deep anxiety among immigrant and Muslim
communities.

Trump's choices dimmed speculation that he would move to the center as he begins
to govern a nation still deeply fractured and on edge.

On Friday, Trump provided some clarity.

Trump's attorney general pick, Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, is an
anti-immigration crusader deeply disliked by civil rights activists.

The president-elect's choice for national security adviser, retired Lt. Gen.
Michael Flynn, is an experienced warrior who has suggested Americans should fear
all Muslims.

Rep. Mike Pompeo of Kansas, who got the nod for CIA director, broke with
colleagues on the House Benghazi Committee to co-author a minority report
accusing Hillary Clinton of a cover-up.

The picks renewed the rancor Trump set off earlier in the week when he named as
his top White House strategist Stephen Bannon, the media executive who has
aligned himself with white nationalists.

They presaged a contentious start to the Trump administration, with Democrats
and civil rights activists  vowing to use Senate hearings to put the spotlight
on the controversial pasts of the selections who must be confirmed, which
include Sessions and Pompeo.

Trump advisers and GOP lawmakers moved quickly to highlight moments in the
careers of the men when they worked with colleagues across the aisle.

"If you have nostalgia for the days when blacks kept quiet, gays were in the
closet, immigrants were invisible and women stayed in the kitchen, Sen.
Jefferson Beauregard Sessions is your man," Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., said in
a statement. Sessions, 69, was one of the earliest and most enthusiastic backers
of Trump's presidential bid. If confirmed to be attorney general, Sessions would
lead an agency that under President Barack Obama has waded aggressively into
civil rights issues, particularly after the unrest sparked by the killings of
black men by police officers in recent years.

Sessions' Republican colleagues quickly closed ranks around him Friday,
suggesting a confirmation is likely. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky praised him, pointing to how Sessions has collaborated with some of the
Senate's most liberal lawmakers on legislation.

Incoming Senate Democratic Leader Charles  Schumer of New York warned that his
cordial relationship with Sessions, with whom he exercises at the gym, does not
give the attorney general nominee a pass on tough questioning. The appointment
of Flynn, which does not require Senate confirmation, raised similar concerns of
racial and ethnic animosity. Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., a senior member of the
Senate Intelligence Committee, put Flynn in the same category as Bannon, saying
the two embody Trump's "most divisive rhetoric."

. In February, Flynn tweeted a YouTube video that says all Muslims should be
feared and lists bombings perpetrated by Muslims. "Fear of Muslims is RATIONAL:
please forward this to others: the truth fears no questions," Flynn wrote.

"He is familiar with the complex set of security challenges we face," Sen. Jack
Reed, D-R.I., the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, said in a
statement. "And President-elect Trump does not have a lot of experience in this
arena." But Reed also expressed concern with comments Flynn made "in the heat of
the campaign."

Pompeo, a former Army officer and aerospace executive, was elected as part of
the 2010 tea party wave election.  He has defended as legal the CIA's
waterboarding and other torture, which Trump has said he wants to bring back
over the objections of military and intelligence leaders.

Pompeo's nomination to run the CIA "is profoundly disturbing," Glenn Carle, a
former senior officer who was involved in the CIA's interrogation and detention
program, said in a telephone interview from Dubai.

Carle, who spent 23 years as a spy before retiring in 2007, has criticized the
agency's brutal treatment of detainees.

Democrats took a less hostile posture toward Pompeo than Trump's other
selections. The top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, Rep. Adam
Schiff of California, called Pompeo "very bright and hardworking." Meanwhile,
Rep. Bill Shuster, R-Pa., head of the House transportation committee, told The
Associated Press that Trump likes the idea of spinning off air traffic control
operations from the government and placing them under the control of a private,
nonprofit corporation chartered by Congress.

Shuster said he spoke to Trump about the idea several times both before and
during the presidential election.

Los Angeles Times' Brian Bennett and Del Quentin Wilber contributed.

evan.halper@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             491 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

A shared vision

BYLINE: David A. Fahrenthold ;and Frances Stead Sellers

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1502  words



HIGHLIGHT: Donald Trump and then-campaign CEO Stephen Bannon tour Gettysburg
National Military Park last month. Bannon has been named a senior presidential
adviser to Trump. Stephen Bannon, a top executive at the hard-right Breitbart
News, hosted a radio program that Donald Trump occasionally called and where
Bannon would coach the latter on policy.Evan Vucci/AP Kirk Irwin/SiriusXM


Soon after terrorist attacks killed 130 people in Paris last year, Donald Trump
faced sharp criticism for saying the United States could have "no choice" but to
close down some mosques.

Two days later, Trump called in to a radio show run by a friendly political
operative who offered a suggestion.

Was it possible, asked the host, Stephen Bannon, that Trump hadn't really meant
that mosques should be closed?

"Were you actually saying, you need a (New York City police) intelligence unit
to get a network of informants?" Bannon asked. He continued: "I guess what I'm
saying is, you're not prepared to allow an enemy within ... to try to tear down
this country?"

Trump - presented with a less controversial but entirely different idea than
what he'd actually said - agreed.

"That's right. That's not going to happen," he told Bannon.

Today, Trump is president-elect. And Bannon, a top executive at the hard-right
Breitbart News, who helped guide Trump's victorious campaign and has been named
a senior White House strategist, is set to be one of the new president's most
influential advisers.

The clearest public sense of how the two plan to work together - and what
policies Bannon will probably try to push - came over the course of nine
one-on-one interviews on Bannon's radio show from November 2015 to June of this
year.

In those exchanges, a dynamic emerged, with Bannon often coaxing Trump to agree
to his viewpoint, whether on climate change, foreign policy or the need to take
on Republican leaders in Congress.

At times, Bannon seemed to coach Trump to soften the harder edges of his
message, to make it more palatable to a broader audience, while in other cases
he pushed Trump to take tougher positions. He flattered Trump, praising his
negotiating skills and the size of his campaign crowds.

The conversations marked a coming-together of Trump, who at the time was a
pariah among many top Republicans, and the "alt-right," a loosely defined term
describing a far-right ideology that includes opposition to immigration and
"globalism" and had found a home in the Breitbart News empire. The alt-right
movement has also been saturated with white-nationalist rhetoric, prompting
criticism of Bannon's appointment this week, though Bannon has denied any
association with white supremacists.

A spokeswoman for the Trump transition did not respond to a request for comments
on behalf of Bannon and the president-elect.

Bannon's interviews with Trump were done for Breitbart News Daily, a radio
program that airs on SiriusXM satellite radio.

By the time of that first show, Breitbart had already become a crucial booster
of Trump's presidential campaign.

"Mr. Trump, thank you very much for joining us on the initial Breitbart News
Daily Show," Bannon said on Nov. 2, 2015.

When Trump came on the air, the first thing Bannon wanted to talk about was how
well Trump was doing in his campaign - and how Bannon had noticed it before
other people did.

"I said, 'This guy, people are leaning forward in these audiences when he's
talking,' " Bannon said, recalling earlier conversations about Trump's run. "And
we were mocked and ridiculed."

Trump also wanted to talk about how well he was doing.

"We had 20,000 in Dallas. ... And 35,000 in Alabama, and 20,000 in Oklahoma,"
Trump said, talking about his rallies. "We've had a lot of fun talking about
very negative subjects. Because everything is negative with the country, Steve,
I mean, there's nothing good happening."

During their conversations, there were some moments on-air when Trump and Bannon
disagreed. Though not many.

Last November, for instance, Trump said he was concerned that foreign students
attending Ivy League schools have to return home because of U.S. immigration
laws.

"We have to be careful of that, Steve. You know, we have to keep our talented
people in this country," Trump said. He paused. Bannon said, "Um."

"I think you agree with that," Trump said. "Do you agree with that?"

Bannon was hesitant.

"When two-thirds or three-quarters of the CEOs in Silicon Valley are from South
Asia or from Asia, I think ... " Bannon said, not finishing the sentence. "A
country is more than an economy. We're a civic society."

Trump said he would build a border wall, but still wanted to let highly educated
foreign students who graduate from U.S. colleges to be able to stay in the
country.

"I still want people to come in," Trump said. "But I want them to go through the
process."

Bannon said: "You got to remember, we're Breitbart. We're the know-nothing
vulgarians. So we've always got to be to the right of you on this."

"Oh, that's OK," Trump said.

In most of the interviews, Bannon often called his subject "sir" or "Mr. Trump."
Trump called his interviewer "Steve."

In his questions, Bannon often began with praise for Trump. Asking about foreign
affairs, for instance, Bannon praised Trump's capacity for dealmaking.

"It's complicated," Bannon said. "That's your calling card."

"I love complicated," Trump responded. "I thrive on complicated."

The flattery often came before a leading question.

Last December, Bannon told Trump that, "I know you're a student of military
history." Then, he laid out a case for questioning the U.S. alliance with
Turkey, a member of NATO since the 1950s.

Wasn't it true, Bannon asked, that the situation was a bit like the web of
treaties that connected European countries before World War I?

"People were locked into these treaties. ... It led to the beginning of the
bloodiest century in mankind's history," Bannon said. He said that Turkey had
changed since it joined NATO, turning to Islamism under President Recep Tayyip
Erdogan. What if Turkey was drawn into a broader conflict in Syria, perhaps with
Russia?

"This is not something, Steve, that you want to end up in World War III over,"
Trump said.

In other cases, Bannon would use his questions to frame policy choices - and
then ask Trump if he agreed with the frame and the choice.

In the December interview, Bannon presented the problems of climate change and
the Islamic State as a binary option - offering Trump, in effect, the choice of
fighting one or the other.

"Do you agree with the pope and President Obama that (climate change) is
absolutely a path to global suicide, if specific deals are not cut in Paris,
versus focusing on radical Islam?" Bannon asked, referring to the negotiations
that eventually led to a global climate agreement in Paris last year.

Trump said that what other people considered to be climate change was probably
just weather. Radical Islam should be the focus.

"We are fools," Trump said, meaning the Obama administration.

In the wake of House Speaker Paul Ryan's early May announcement that he was not
ready to back Trump, Bannon invited Trump to reflect on whether Ryan, R-Wis.,
was showing "a lack of respect - not just for you, but for your policies."

On issues ranging from trade to slowing Muslim immigration, Bannon said, "What
(Ryan) wants is for you to drop those policies. Are you prepared to do that for
unity?" When Trump later began to say it would be "better if we do get
together," Bannon interrupted, saying that Ryan's version of unity would
represent "a collapse of what you ran on and a collapse on what (voters) backed
you on."

"Well, you can't do that," responded Trump.

Bannon also seemed to recognize when Trump had made a potential gaffe - even
when Trump had not - and to try to steer him back to correct it. The first time
Bannon asked Trump about U.S. foreign policy toward Turkey, Trump volunteered
that he had business interests there.

"I have a little conflict of interest, because I have a major, major building in
Istanbul," Trump said. "It's called Trump Towers. Two towers, instead of one.
Not the usual one, it's two. And I've gotten to know Turkey very well."

A little later, Bannon circled back, asking Trump to explain why his conflict of
interest should not bother voters.

"They say, 'Hey look, this guy's got vested business interests all over the
world. How do I know he's going to stand up to Turkey?' " Bannon said.

Trump did not directly address the question.

In another conversation, from February, Trump began with an attack on Sen. Ted
Cruz, R-Texas, his GOP primary rival, saying, "I've never seen any human being
lie like he lies."

Bannon, who had also praised Cruz in the past, interrupted.

"Mr. Mr. Mr. Trump ... You've been in New York real estate, and global real
estate, and the gaming industry, and with politicians. You can't say,
reasonably, that Ted Cruz is the biggest liar you've ever seen," Bannon said.

"He's the biggest liar," Trump said. "OK, let's get on to another subject. I
don't want to make you uncomfortable."

A few minutes later, however, Bannon circled back again. "These personal
attacks. It's turning people off," he said. "On this Ted Cruz situation: You've
dealt with the toughest hombres in the world. You can't expect us to believe
that Ted Cruz is the biggest liar you've ever met. It doesn't stand to reason."

Trump moderated. A little bit.

"He's right up there, let me tell you," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             492 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Web tries to school electoral college

BYLINE: Dan Zak

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1043  words



HIGHLIGHT: Office of the Federal Register's Miriam Vincent has faced a deluge of
emails about the electoral college's workings.Evelyn Hockstein/For The
Washington Post


WASHINGTON - The second Tuesday of  this month was quiet.

The next day  was quiet, too.

The pitchforks started arriving  Thursday, about 36 hours after the presidential
election was called. They were virtual pitchforks, but still. Email after email.
Tweets. Phone calls. Facebook posts. Some profane. Some pleading.

One subject line: "electoral votes are wrong"

Another: "Vote in Hillary Clinton Dec. 19"

Another: "Letter to America"

Another: "HELP"

So it goes at the Office of the Federal Register, which administers the
electoral college and now finds itself at the center of a populist brouhaha.

The Electoral College is not an actual place - no grassy quad, nor group of
people sharing a space.

It exists for one day every four years and then vanishes, like Brigadoon, until
the next presidential election.

The closest thing to a physical headquarters is this office, one half of the
seventh floor of a neoclassical brick building over an Au Bon Pain, six blocks
north of the Capitol.

Over the last week, the Office of the Federal Register has been inundated by
Americans wanting to learn about - or somehow control - the college,  made up of
the 538 party officials who will  go about the formal business of electing
Donald Trump president on Dec. 19, based on the popular votes of each state.

Many people have something to say about that, partly because Hillary Clinton won
the most votes nationwide, partly because Donald Trump is Donald Trump.

"It's just that they keep coming," says Miriam Vincent, staring at her inbox
Wednesday morning. "And every time we get close to having a handle on it, we get
more. It goes on. And on."

Her email pings.

"And on."

Vincent has 558 unread emails, a grande chai in her hand, and a big bottle of
Excedrin Migraine on her cluttered desk. She is a staff attorney in the Legal
Affairs and Policy Division in the Office of the Federal Register under the
National Archives and Records Administration.

She is dealing with the nation's collective freakout about the electoral
college.

Millions of Trump haters who can't handle Clinton's loss are signing petitions
to persuade electors to vote as the majority of Americans did, which would be
completely permissible and also pretty unprecedented.

Actual electors are being lobbied and harassed, according to the Idaho
Statesman, and this frantic energy has also funneled toward the Office of the
Federal Register, whose website is the second Google hit when you search
"electoral college."

Death threats. Promises of civil war. Inappropriate photographs. Students with
homework questions. A daughter of Holocaust survivors who called to sob into the
ear of a government bureaucrat. A woman in Florida who wanted Vincent to do
something about Russian hacking.

Only four employees work in Vincent's division. In the last week, each has taken
on the role of civics teacher, and the role of therapist.

"You really need a thick skin," says Amy Bunk, the division director. "People
are venting their frustration."

An email from Troy, Mich., sent 93 minutes before Trump was declared the winner
last week: "OK I little confused ... tell why do we have a general election if
our vote does not count for the Presidential election?"

The normal work in this office is the publishing of the daily Federal Register,
which includes government agencies' notices and proposed rules, plus
presidential documents such as speeches and proclamations. It's America's paper
trail, wide open for anyone to see, textual government transparency in action.
They've processed over 28,000 documents so far this year. They publish every
business day, even if D.C. is closed for snow, even if the government is shut
down.

"And every four years we have this dropped on us," Vincent says.

It goes back to a 1950 government reorganization that moved administrative
responsibility for the electoral college from the State Department to the
National Archives.

"And we have it because the archivist said, 'You're doing it.' Maybe the
(Register) director was standing in the wrong place at the wrong time."

After a presidential election, on the first Monday after the second Wednesday in
December, the electors gather at their respective state capitals to cast their
votes. Who are they? Just regular people, entrenched in party politics, who have
been selected by their parties for this very specific task.

Among other standing requirements, they cannot have fought for the South in the
Civil War.

They sign their state's electoral certificates, which are then sent to Congress
and to Vincent's division. There are usually a handful of states that screw
something up. Either the governor didn't sign the certificate, or they didn't
put the state seal on it, or they got the election date wrong - in which case
Vincent's division says "try again."

Then she and her colleagues compare its 51 certificates to the ones received by
Congress, to make sure everything checks out.

And then we have a president.

The past three elections were easy for Vincent's office. The election of 2000
was a challenge. Citizens kept showing up to scrutinize the signatures on
Florida's certificate, which had been laid out for public inspection.

This year is unreal.

A tweet to @ElectoralCollege from a woman named Jeanne: "Please do not discard
my Ohio vote. Trump IS my president."

But Vincent and Bunk are not in charge of choosing the president. Their role
here in this moment is simply to respond to these emails with information,
excise offensive posts from the Facebook page, and screenshot the threats to
send to the inspector general.

"We're really sick of the phrase 'We the People,' " Vincent says.

"On both sides," Bunk adds.

"Someone sent us the text of the Declaration of Independence," says Vincent.

"What happened to civics in school?" Bunk says. "I'm serious about that."

"A lot of people have been asking or advocating or yelling that we need to go
back to the popular vote, but there is no 'back,' " Vincent says. "Because this
is how it's been since 1789."

For now, then, there are emails to deal with, callers to educate, and a process
to follow that helps to formally elect a president. And a couple weeks after the
inauguration, Vincent will enjoy her first vacation since August, on the beaches
of Miami, far from the paper and the pinging.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             493 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Still stocking Cabinet, Trump unloads online

BYLINE: Del Quentin Wilber

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 542  words



HIGHLIGHT: President-elect Donald Trump walks Mitt Romney out after their
meeting Saturday in Bedminster Township, N.J.Drew Angerer/Getty


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday met with an eclectic mix
of potential Cabinet picks, including high-profile Republican foe Mitt Romney,
while also launching a Twitter storm boasting about settling his
multimillion-dollar Trump University lawsuit and criticizing the cast of the hit
Broadway musical "Hamilton" for lecturing his Vice President-elect Mike Pence
about "American values."

When not taking to Twitter, Trump spent the afternoon ensconced in his posh golf
club in Bedminster, N.J., where the high-profile guests included Romney, a
former GOP presidential candidate Trump is believed to be considering for
secretary of state.

Among the eight potential candidates getting face-time with Trump were Michelle
Rhee, the education activist who is a contender for education secretary, and
Betsy DeVos, a Republican donor from Michigan who is an advocate for school
vouchers.

Patrick Soon-Shiong, who made his fortune developing an anti-cancer drug, also
met with Trump on Saturday.

Soon-Shiong, a vice chairman of Tronc, the parent company of the Chicago
Tribune, Los Angeles Times and seven other major newspapers, has been involved
with Vice President Joe Biden's cancer moonshot initiative.

The meetings are scheduled to continue Sunday.

The most anticipated sit-down involved Romney, who during the campaign was
critical of the president-elect's character and policy positions.

The former Massachusetts governor shook hands with Trump when he arrived at
Trump National Golf Club and told reporters 90 minutes later that the pair spoke
about U.S. interests around the globe.

"We discussed those areas, and exchanged our views on those topics - a very
thorough and in-depth discussion in the time we had," Romney said upon leaving
the golf club, which is 50 miles west of Trump Tower in downtown New York City.
"And I appreciate the chance to speak with the president-elect, and I look
forward to the coming administration and the things that it's going to be
doing."

Trump walked Romney out at the end of the meeting and said "it went great."

Trump also met with retired Gen. James Mattis, calling him "the real deal."

Mattis is considered a contender to lead the Pentagon.

Trump wouldn't say if he was offering Mattis a job, saying "we'll see."

Trump also briefly bantered with reporters.

"Everything OK out there?" he asked. "Need some chocolate, need something? I'll
send some stuff. I'm not allowed to do that, but I will."

The president-elect also addressed the $25 million settlement announced Friday
against the now-defunct Trump University.

Trump said Saturday that he settled the lawsuit  because he needs to focus on
the country.

"The ONLY bad thing about winning the Presidency is that I did not have the time
to go through a long but winning trial on Trump U. Too bad!" he said on Twitter.

Meanwhile, he demanded an apology from the cast of the musical "Hamilton" a day
after an actor delivered a pointed message about diversity to his running mate
who was in attendance.

The speech aimed at Mike Pence prompted angry responses from liberals and
conservatives alike. Some Trump supporters called for a boycott of the Broadway
show, which is sold out through next year.

Associated Press contributed.

del.wilber@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             494 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Who will lead Dems out of wilderness?

BYLINE: Mark Z. Barabak

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 734  words



HIGHLIGHT: A woman weeps during a candlelight vigil last Wednesday after Hillary
Clinton's loss in the presidential election, on Pennsylvania Avenue outside the
White House.MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EPA


LOS ANGELES - When Hillary Clinton lost her White House bid, it was a jagged
exclamation mark punctuating several painful years for Democrats.

Come January, the party will have at least 11 fewer U.S. senators, 63 fewer
House seats and 12 fewer governors than when President Barack Obama took office
in 2009.

Nationally, there will be about 800 fewer Democratic state lawmakers.

By some benchmarks - the control of state capitols, for instance - the
Democratic Party is in worse shape than it has been in more than a century.

But Democrats, after several periods of exile from the White House, are no
strangers to the political wilderness - nor fractious infighting over how to
find their way back.

The most immediate battle is for leadership of the Democratic National
Committee. The contest will pit Washington insiders against Beltway outsiders,
liberal backers of Bernie Sanders against more centrist Hillary Clinton
holdovers, and advocates of a full-time chairman versus those who feel it is
fine to hold another job as well - even serving in Congress.

Several contestants have emerged, including Howard Dean, the former Vermont
governor who ran the national party in the run-up to Obama's 2008 election, and
Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota, a favorite of Sanders and the incoming Senate
Democratic leader, Charles  Schumer of New York.

The vote will take place sometime after President-elect Donald Trump's
inauguration Jan. 20.

The broader fight grows out of Clinton's stunning defeat. Few will loudly
criticize Obama for having failed to strengthen the party, or lay down a firmer
foundation, during eight years as Democrat in chief.

Instead of expanding the political map against Trump into the Republican-leaning
reaches of Arizona and Georgia, Democrats are reckoning with the loss of
Michigan and Pennsylvania, states they won in the last six elections, and
Wisconsin, which had not voted for a Republican for president since 1984.

"How does the party come back? That's the million-dollar question," said Jill
Hanauer, a longtime Democratic strategist who has focused on expanding the Obama
coalition of minorities and young voters into swing  states.

"If anyone thinks they can answer that today, don't listen. It's just begun."

The last time the party faced such deep existential angst, after three straight
losing presidential campaigns, Democrats shifted their philosophical course and
moved closer to the middle, nudged by a fresh-faced Arkansas governor named Bill
Clinton.

Paul Begala, who helped Clinton win the White House in 1992 and worked this year
for a political action committee backing his wife for president, acknowledged it
was time for a new set of Democratic leaders to emerge.

That said, he suggested the party's message should be a throwback to the one
that helped elect Bill Clinton in a time of similar voter anxiety and
frustration: "It's still the economy, stupid," Begala said.

"If Democrats can't speak to the pain of poor people and working-class people" -
whether in Appalachia or the inner cities - "then we don't deserve to be a
party," Begala said.

But Cornell Belcher, a Democratic pollster who specializes in African-American
voters, warned against focusing too much on the proverbial angry white male who
helped deliver Trump's upset victory.

"It's hard for me, making a cold calculation, to understand why we spend even
more money and even more effort going after an increasingly resistant, shrinking
marketplace," Belcher said.

"If we expand the electorate, we have a majority. That's where the future is."

Beyond the ideological argument, Democrats are also talking about the process.
After past setbacks, the party overhauled its presidential nominating system and
changed the political calendar, ideas being floated once more.

Supporters of Sanders and former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, who ran against
Clinton in the primaries, are still furious at the favoritism shown by the
Democratic National Committee and insist on reducing the influence of "super
delegates."

"There is no doubt the Democratic Party would have been stronger in 2016 if we
had a field of seven to 10 strong candidates - senators, governors, mayors - who
were actively debating the future of our country," said Lis Smith, who helped
manage O'Malley's campaign.

"We need to open up the whole party, not make this a cabal of insiders who are
nostalgic for names from the past."

mark.barabak@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             495 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

DIVISIVE BEHAVIOR

BYLINE: KATHLEEN MEGAN

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1491  words



HIGHLIGHT: THIS VIDEO, shared on Facebook, shows a person at a bonfire in East
Windsor in a KKK robe and with a Donald Trump flag.Photo from Facebook


The viral video of a young man dressed in a KKK robe at a post-election bonfire
party in East Windsor has reverberated far beyond the suburban town, raising
questions about whether the country has entered a new era of extremism and
divisive social behavior.

In the six days after the election, the Southern Poverty Law Center collected
437 reports of hateful intimidation and harassment rumbling across the country.

"We've seen an alarming number of hate-based incidents occur throughout the
nation, some of which are no doubt stemming from Trump's hate-filled campaign,"
said Heidi Beirich, director of the law center's intelligence project.

The East Windsor party where the KKK robe appeared and a high school football
game in Wilton where students chanted "Build the Wall!" have received wide
attention on social media. In the Wilton incident, a group of high school
students chanted "Build the Wall!" during a football game against Danbury, a far
more racially diverse community. On Friday, Wilton High issued an apology to
Danbury High School.

In Pennyslvania, students were filmed carrying a Trump sign through the hallways
of the state's County Technical School, shouting "White Power!" Bathrooms in a
Minnesota high school were vandalized with racist graffiti, including "Go Back
to Africa, Make America Great Again," and "porch monkeys" and "whites only." In
West Virginia, a mayor resigned after commenting favorably about a racist
Facebook post about Michelle Obama.

"It not simply an instance of kids being kids," said Christopher Petrella, a
Bates College lecturer, who has studied the KKK in New England. "It's white
youth being socialized as white in this country, doing things that white kids
do. ... This whole sort of theater around the bonfire would not be legible to
youth of color. That just wouldn't happen,."

Oren Segal, director of the Center on Extremism with the Anti-Defamation League,
said that in the current environment, a racial incident like the one in East
Windsor no longer impacts just the local community.

"People are viewing incidents as a reflection of where the country is headed or
as some kind of response to where we just were," Segal said. "That's different
than a swastika on the wall during a time of more calm. In those times,
incidents do not carry the additional baggage of a divisive presidential
campaign and fears of a divided country."

When the East Windsor video went viral, the town's first selectman initially
downplayed the KKK incident and called it just "some young people who made a big
mistake trying to get attention." He has since apologized for that.

"This didn't just pop up," said Scot X. Esdaile, president of the Connecticut
chapter of the NAACP.

"Part of it now is Trump," Esdaile said. "He jumped on the wave. Racists feel
very comfortable that they can go out and do exactly what they want to do now.
And we demand that the federal government and all law enforcement handle this
just like any other terrorist."

Kids Mimic Incivility

Segal said it's clear that young people were monitoring and watching this
campaign as closely as anyone else.

"They were hearing their parents talk about it," Segal said. "When you have so
much divisiveness and incivility, it's not that surprising to see it play out on
the ground among those that are most impressionable."

It's not a news flash that kids can be nasty to one another, Segal said, but
when kids are "pretending to build a wall so that Hispanic kids can't get to
their locker, when there is graffiti in the bathroom that uses the 'N' word,
when you see graffiti outside that says 'Make America White Again,' these are
all incidents being informed by some degree by public discussion."

And it provides some evidence, Segal said, that perhaps, now that the election
is over, people feel they have "the freedom to mimic what they've been hearing
for so long. I think kids sort of do that anyway. If we are looking at the
effects of a long-term divisive campaign, I think the first place people should
look is how it affects youth."

Segal said it appears that many of these incidents can't be traced back to
organized hate groups that are on the fringes of society but rather to "people
emboldened by rhetoric, not just extremists but everyday average people who may
harbor some of these beliefs and now think it's OK to act out. I think that's
what's scary for people."

When incivility and hate speech become normalized, Segal said, it becomes more
mainstream and boundaries are lost. "That's why it's so important to push back
on hate speech. It's important for us to constantly remind people that this is
unacceptable. This is not right. This is not normal."

In Danbury, Mayor Mark Boughton said there is an important difference between
what people say at a political rally and a chant directed at a diverse community
during a high school football game.

"I think the issue now is [that] people are really on a hair trigger with talk
that's going on both on the left and the right," he said. "I think everybody
just has to calm down a little bit, just be a little bit more compassionate and
caring to each other.

"And this is coming from somebody that voted Trump and Pence. So let's keep
things in perspective here."

A Curtain Lifted

Petrella, the Bates College lecturer, has studied the KKK in New England. He
said history shows that white supremacist groups like the KKK emerge on a
predictable cycle, whenever "folks of color are offering deep challenges to the
sanctity and legitimacy of white supremacy."

"It's absolutely no surprise to me that we've gone from our first black
president to our first openly white supremacist president," Petrella said. "It's
a new, updated, Reconstruction. You saw the KKK form in the immediate aftermath
of black folks in the South winning civil rights. And I see a very, very stark
linkage.

"It's black progress, white retrenchment, black progress, white retrenchment,"
Petrella said. "In a lot of ways that is the dance that our country has engaged
in since its inception."

In the past eight years or so, Petrella said, the number of extremist groups has
grown, which he believes is not a coincidence but rather a direct reaction to
the Obama presidency.

He suggests the country may be entering a period in which Trump's election has
given "license to a lot of folks who have been harboring deep-seated  racial
resentment for quite some time."

Nothing changed in American social and racial values between Nov. 7 and Nov. 9,
Petrella said, "except the curtain has been lifted."

"I think it's now bubbling up to the political consciousness of middle class
white folks," Petrella said, "piercing the respectability politics that govern
white middle class ideologies, which is: We don't accept hate, bigotry is bad.
Its dislodged from its historical context. That's when it becomes a big problem.
it's not just folks wearing hoods."

If anyone suggests that the youths in East Windsor or the youths involved in any
such racist activities around the country didn't understand what they were
doing, Petrella said, "that may be true and fair. ... But the rejoinder is that
the reason these white youth didn't know what they were doing is because they
grew up being acculturated as white. You are not expected to know these things.

"If you grow up black or Latino or even in a Jewish family, this is very much
part of not only your family history, but also just U.S. history and one would
assume that youth of color would see this history in a way that white youth do
not."

Significance Of KKK Imagery

Albert Laguna, Yale's director of undergraduate studies for ethnicity, race and
migration, said parents should be "extremely worried that young people are
making the obvious, yet no less troubling, connection between Trump and the
KKK."

He said that he hopes the people of East Windsor will "actually engage with the
question of why dressing up as a Klan member is so deeply troubling. It
shouldn't be simply swept under the rug as the 'wrong thing' to do.

"My sense is that many young people have no idea why precisely the KKK and its
imagery is so problematic - their long history of racial violence, terror, and
rhetoric. At this pivotal point in U.S. history, we must emphasize and insist on
education."

Catherine Stock, a history professor at Connecticut College who specializes in
rural radicalism and domestic terrorism said that often there is a tendency to
want to forgive young people their transgressions.

"Let's not," she said. "Let's say what those things really are."

She said young people have a "responsibility to understand our past well enough
to know that nooses, and swastikas and KKK hoods - they have very, very specific
meanings that aren't just symbolic. They are still terrifying."

"If there is this much racism that is right under the surface in every state of
the United States, including Connecticut, we're better off to know it," she
said. "But if that's true we have a lot of work to do as a society."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             496 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

To Liberals, Trump Was The Norm Until Now

BYLINE: Jonah Goldberg

SECTION: OPINION; C; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 683  words


The war on normalization has begun.

"The media is starting to normalize Donald Trump, and it should make you very
scared," proclaims a headline at Salon. HBO's haughty in-house mocker, John
Oliver, says, "Optimism is nice if you can swing it, but you've got to be
careful, because it can feed into the normalization of Donald Trump - and he's
not normal."

There is scads more of this stuff, but I have two points to make, so let's keep
moving.

The first point is not particularly new, but it's important to the handful of us
with the sacred right to say, "I told you so."

Or put another way: Where the hell were you people before? Throughout the
primaries, Trump's conservative opponents complained bitterly that the
mainstream media was normalizing Trump.

No one listened, for three reasons. Trump was good for ratings (and got billions
worth of free media as a result). CBS honcho Les Moonves said that Trump's
success "may not be good for America, but it's damn good for CBS."

Second, the mainstream media and numerous liberal pundits loved Trump's impact
on the GOP for the same reason bored teenagers like to throw lit matches into
dumpsters: Garbage fires are fun to watch.

The third reason is closely related to the second: The media thought Trump was
more likely to lose to Hillary Clinton. (And so did the Clinton campaign itself,
as we learned from WikiLeaks).

In February, Jonathan Chait, a writer for New York Magazine, wrote a piece
titled "Why liberals should support a Trump Republican nomination." He listed
three reasons: Trump would lose, Trump would wreak havoc on the GOP, and Trump
would be better than the other Republicans candidates.

"If he does win," Chait wrote, "a Trump presidency would probably wind up doing
less harm to the country than a Marco Rubio or a (Ted) Cruz presidency. It might
even, possibly, do some good."

The day after the election, Chait declared on Twitter "This is the worst thing
that has happened in my life."

OK, then.

Shortly after the election, Slate's Jamelle Bouie wrote a piece titled "There's
no such thing as a good Trump voter," likening some 60 million Americans to a
racist lynch mob. Last year, Bouie penned an article with the headline "Donald
Trump is actually a moderate Republican."

Of course, Chait and Bouie are not alone. Progressive figures such as Paul
Krugman, Matt Yglesias, Robert Borosage, Amanda Marcotte and Bill Maher all said
during the primaries that Trump was less scary than, say, Rubio or Cruz.

Isn't it awfully late to be decrying the normalization of Trump when you were an
early adopter of normalization because you thought the horrible Democratic
nominee would have an easier time beating him?

That brings me to my second point: the normalization of the Clintons. Liberals
may have thought the Trump campaign's exploitation of the women Bill Clinton
allegedly (and in some cases admittedly) sexually mistreated was tawdry and
beyond the pale. Fair enough. But you know why such tactics worked? Because Bill
Clinton was tawdry and beyond the pale - but liberals not only normalized him,
they lionized him and demonized his critics.

When the Clinton Foundation finally started to become an issue in the campaign,
James Carville insisted that "somebody's going to hell" for daring to question
the Olympian goodness of Clinton Inc.

Liberals knew when Bill Clinton ran for president in 1992 that he was a tawdry,
corner-cutting cad (and that Hillary Clinton was a conspiratorial schemer). But
he was on their side, so it was OK. Besides, once elected, he deserved the
benefit of the doubt - even though he won a smaller share of the popular vote
than Trump did - because you only have one president at a time, and in a
democracy, elections are inherently normalizing.

Maybe Trump deserves similar treatment?

I'm not trying to start a pointless debate about who is more abnormal (though
I'd argue that Trump would win that contest). But it's worth pointing out that
when you spend a long time bending political norms for partisan reasons, those
norms eventually break. And this is what you get.

Tribune Content Agency

goldbergcolumn@gmail.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             497 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Same Old Republican Blueprint

SECTION: OPINION; C; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 735  words


Same Old Republican Blueprint

How quickly, as a nation, we have forgotten. Duped and conned once again.

When Bush/Cheney and friends took over, Bill Clinton was leaving office with a
balanced budget and a strong economy. Disaster soon followed. In spite of their
promises about national defense, the continental U.S. was successfully attacked
by a foreign enemy. The outpouring of goodwill from other nations soon
dissipated due to the bluster, arrogance and bullying that made up our foreign
policy.

We engaged in two wars. The federal government continued to extend its reach,
and we lost some of our civil liberties. Critical oversight on banking and Wall
Street was ignored. Our economy was on the brink of collapse. People lost
better-paying jobs as worse-paying ones were created, and they worked harder and
were forced to retire later. The rich got filthier rich, the poor despairingly
poorer, and the middle class saw its hard-earned money buy less and less.
Republicans escalated borrowing, and oil and gas drilling was expanded as
regulations were eased.

It's clear that Republicans will be following their same old blueprint, so
expect similar results followed by our pleas for rescue by the Democrats.

Christopher Saunders, Granby

Muslim Affirms Loyalty;

Calls For Just Policies

Donald Trump won the presidential election fair and square. Now everybody needs
to do their part.

Mr. Trump has a responsibility to draft a four-year plan of just policies, even
at the expense of revising harsh campaign promises. For example, I completely
agree that our government needs to monitor suspicious characters to thwart
violent extremism. But it would be wrong to ban all Muslims or to demonize an
entire religion over the acts of a few renegades who misuse the name of Islam.

As Muslims in America, we also need to do our part by heeding the instructions
of the Prophet Muhammad, who told us to follow those who govern us and to
consider loyalty to our country of residence as integral to our faith. He also
asked us to turn to prayer for the betterment of our nation.

Instead of engaging in bitter rhetoric or obstinate protest, all of us -
including the incoming commander in chief - need to put into practice our best
ideals.

Sohail Z. Husain, M.D., North Haven

The writer is a former president of the Connecticut Chapter of the U.S.
Ahmadiyya Muslim Youth Organization.

Will Witch Hunt Continue Now?

In October, House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz, with the blessing
of Speaker Paul Ryan, vowed to resume investigative targeting of Hillary Clinton
after the election recess. Chaffetz predicted scheduling at least four separate
hearings.

Will he continue to claim the necessity of investigations in the name of
fact-finding and purported national security violations? Or did he have other
motivations?

I urge House Republicans to continue their investigations to completion and
issue full reports that would either exonerate Clinton or recommend further
legal action against her by the Justice Department.

Failing to do so will confirm the entire process was politically motivated from
the start.

Brian Duffy, Simsbury

We Need More Real Journalism

We in the U.S. have never needed print and electronic news - reported by
professional journalists - more than we do today. That has never been more
apparent to me than in my last 18 months binge-watching TV "news" stations.

Local TV channels mainly provide news "readers," who mainly give us lots of gory
details about murders, fires and car accidents. And cable news channels - MSNBC,
Fox, etc. - primarily give us pundits who provide us, 24/7, with emotionally
hyped opinions and guesses.

All of this is more entertainment than journalism. The only journalism that I
can find is in print or online, from reputable state and national news
organizations that have investigative staffs to delve into, and beyond, the
stories they cover, especially with respect to government actions and
contemplated actions.

Although they need more, they have real reporters - journalists - who do more
than parrot press releases and opine about stories. These folks perform
old-fashioned fact-checking, interpretation of data and its sources, and
unemotional, serious-minded analyses of potential effects on the populace.

We have to step up to the plate - and reach into our wallets - to support good
journalism wherever we find it. Or we will surely lose it.

Margaret Cibes, Hartford

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             498 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Standing Up

SECTION: OPINION; A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 634  words


Standing Up

For Kindness, Respect

In the aftermath of this divisive election, many of us yearn to reaffirm our
commitment to the values of respect, kindness and acceptance. When a sign in
East Haddam reading "Dear Muslims, Immigrants, Women, Disabled, LGBTQ & All
People of Color, We love you boldly and proudly" was defaced, a Chester couple
invited others to their home to discuss how to stem the prevalent animosity of
the current climate and instead promote positive values and attitudes.

The group named itself The Valley Stands Up. It is not political and not
religious. It welcomes all, as we hope our region and nation does also. The
group's goal is to help us work together toward a kinder and more respectful
future.

The first action was to organize a peaceful gathering of people wishing to show
their support. With only one day's notice, more than 350 people gathered in
downtown Chester on Nov. 13 and made the 2-mile march to downtown Deep River,
carrying signs expressing positive values and hopes.

Thank you to all for the joyful reassurance of this experience. We needed this.
Let us continue by joining together to make respect and harmony the first and
most urgent goal for our future.

Jan Taigen, Chester

Says Electoral College More Fair

The Electoral College was a compromise between those who wanted Congress to
elect the president and others who wanted a nationwide popular vote. This
arrangement ensured that states with small populations did not suffer domination
by larger states. The same compassion is seen in the Senate, in which every
state gets two representatives, regardless of its population.

Although this can and has resulted in the total vote loser winning the
presidential election, every presidential aspirant fully understands the system
and endeavors to balance her or his political strengths with available time,
money, effort and organization so as to win the most electoral votes.

Hillary Clinton knew that she had to motivate the usual Democratic voters in
metropolitan parts of important Electoral College states to offset Donald
Trump's strength in rural counties. The fact that Trump's voters were
underestimated and Clinton's voters were overestimated is not the fault of the
Electoral College.

Alan L. Coykendall, Farmington

Facts Support Aid In Dying Bill

The Nov. 7 letter "Where Assisted Suicide Leads" was an attempt to refute
Desmond Tutu's wish to have the option of assisted death. Like most arguments
against Connecticut's aid in dying bill, this letter describes frightening and
hypothetical scenarios that are not based in fact.

For example, the letter writer describes the "inevitable progression from"
assisted suicide to "just another option for the elderly." However, it is not
inevitable. The bill restricts aid in dying to terminally ill patients whose
request for this option is witnessed on two occasions by neutral witnesses who
must attest to the patient's state of mind. Misapplication of aid in dying is
considered to be murder.

Oregon's death with dignity law has been in effect for 18 years, and it has
worked extremely well. There have been almost no cases of attempted abuse, nor
is there any movement to expand it to apply to elderly or vulnerable people.
Connecticut's bill is patterned after the Oregon law, except that the bill here
is a bit more restrictive than Oregon's law.

This bill will greatly benefit the few people who are eligible for aid in dying
and choose to use it. It will have zero impact on everyone else.

Stan Greenberg, Manchester

Will Congress

Set Health Care Example?

I trust that the Republican members of Congress, who are so eager to repeal
Obamacare, turn Medicaid into block grants and privatize Medicare, will soon
take the logical first step and reject their own federally subsidized health
care.

Janice Trecker, Hampton

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             499 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

In Interview

BYLINE: KAREN TUMULTY

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958  words



HIGHLIGHT: B&W: President-elect Donald Trump gives a thumbs up to the crowd as
he walks through the lobby of the New York Times following a meeting with
editors Tuesday in New York City.Spencer Platt | Getty Images


President-elect Donald Trump abruptly abandoned some of his most controversial
campaign promises Tuesday, saying he does not plan to prosecute Hillary Clinton
for her use of a private email system or the dealings of her family foundation,
has an "open mind" about a climate-change accord that he vowed to abandon and is
no longer certain that torturing terrorism suspects is a good idea.

The billionaire real estate developer also dismissed any need to disentangle
himself from his financial holdings, despite rising questions about how his
global business dealings might affect his decision-making as the nation's chief
executive.

"The law's totally on my side. The president can't have a conflict of interest,"
Trump told editors and reporters of the New York Times during an expansive,
hourlong question-and-answer session. "In theory, I could run my business
perfectly and then run the country perfectly. There's never been a case like
this."

Trump further sought to distance himself from a small, far-right movement known
for its embrace of racist and anti-Semitic rhetoric that has celebrated Trump's
election.

"I don't want to energize the group, and I disavow the group," Trump said of the
alt-right.

The president-elect has a record of making statements that are inconsistent with
his previous ones, which means it is uncertain whether any of the positions he
espoused on Tuesday will hold in the days going forward, much less after he is
inaugurated.

Some of Trump's shifts also have the potential to spark a backlash from his most
ardent supporters.

In his meeting with the Times, Trump assumed a more cordial posture than he has
in recent days. Over the weekend, he used his Twitter account to attack the
comedy of "Saturday Night Live" and the cast of the hit Broadway show
"Hamilton." On Monday, he upbraided broadcast news executives and on-air
journalists in an off-the-record session that quickly leaked to other media.

His stance on Clinton, the former secretary of state, was a jarring pivot from
the presidential campaign, during which he called her "Crooked Hillary" and
threatened during one of their debates to put his Democratic opponent in jail.
At his rallies and during the Republican convention in Cleveland, Trump's
supporters would regularly chant, "Lock her up!"

But on Tuesday, he said: "I don't want to hurt the Clintons. I really don't. She
went through a lot and suffered greatly in many different ways."

Asked whether that meant he had ruled out appointing a special prosecutor, as he
had said he would, Trump said: "It's just not something that I feel very
strongly about."

If Trump were to push or try to block a criminal investigation from the Oval
Office, it would mark an extraordinary break with political and legal protocol,
which holds that the attorney general and FBI make decisions on whether to
conduct probes and file charges, free of pressure from the president.

The president-elect's new position may also have no effect on the plans of other
members of his party on Capitol Hill. Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, who is
finishing his first term leading the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, has vowed to continue to investigate Clinton's email server.

An attorney for Clinton, David Kendall, declined to comment.

Trump also shifted position on climate change, saying he believes there is "some
connectivity" between human activity and rising global temperatures.

In 2012, he brushed off that idea as a Chinese hoax, tweeting: "The concept of
global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S.
manufacturing non-competitive."

Asked whether he plans to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris climate
accord, he said he is keeping "an open mind to it." The deal negotiated by
nearly 200 countries last year commits them to a global push to reduce
greenhouse gases.

Trump, however, has repeatedly said the agreement is bad for U.S. businesses. In
a speech in May, he declared that during his first 100 days in office, "we're
going to cancel the Paris climate agreement and stop all payments of U.S. tax
dollars to U.N. global warming programs."

Trump signaled another shift on the question of how to treat terrorism suspects.
During his presidential campaign, he had said that he would reinstate the use of
waterboarding and similar interrogation techniques in the questioning of
suspected terrorists.

"Don't tell me it doesn't work - torture works," Trump said in February at a
retirement community in South Carolina. "OK, folks? Torture - you know, half
these guys [say]: 'Torture doesn't work.' Believe me, it works. OK?"

But Tuesday he suggested he might have changed his mind after interviewing a
leading candidate for secretary of defense, retired Marine Corps Gen. James
Mattis, who headed the U.S. Central Command.

Mattis argued that he had never found harsh interrogation techniques "to be
useful," Trump said, adding that the retired general preferred building trust
with "a pack of cigarettes and a couple of beers."

"I was very impressed by that answer,'' Trump said.

Trump spoke extensively about the implications of an unprecedented situation in
which a businessman with global holdings will sit in the Oval Office. That
prospect has prompted criticism that there will be inevitable conflicts of
interest.

His election, Trump acknowledged, has been good for his business, making the
name that he emblazons on his properties and markets through his licensing
agreements "a hotter brand than it was before."

Donald Trump Said:

Clinton: He doesn't favor prosecuting Hillary Clinton. "I don't want to hurt the
Clintons."

Alt-right: Disavows far-right movement that has celebrated his election.

Climate change: Thinks there's "some connectivity" between humans and climate
change.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             500 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                           November 24, 2016 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Holiday Spending: Splurge or save

BYLINE: ANNE D'INNOCENZIO

SECTION: BUSINESS; A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 830  words


NEW YORK - A divisive election that left half the country deflated and the other
half rejuvenated could reverberate through the holiday shopping season in the
kind of gifts people are giving or how much they spend.

Some retailers say they have seen a surge in feel-good items such as spa
treatments, candles and comfort food, while executives at some major retailers
like Wal-Mart, Target and Macy's, have said there's no discernable shift in
consumer behavior since the presidential election won by Republican Donald
Trump.

The divide in the outlook may reflect the rift in the election, as Americans
split along geographic lines as well as by income.

"I don't need a comfort dog. I don't need anybody to feel sorry for me," said
Rhondi Bleeker, 50, of Totowa, N.J. "I'm actually happy because I was for
Trump."

Bleeker, who owns an eyelash extension business, believes the economy will be
better now. She says she'll still be spending the same $3,000 as she does every
holiday season, but she believes her business could do even better because
whether people are sad or happy, most will want retail therapy.

Some shoppers say they plan to divert money from traditional gifts like sweaters
to donations to charity groups in their friends' or relatives' names.

Ryan Holmes of Chicago, who voted for Democrat Hillary Clinton, said he plans to
devote at least one-quarter of the $750 he typically spends on holiday gifts to
doing that. Even for gifts like music or books, he says he can't help but feel
he might make a political statement such as perhaps giving a book on climate
change to educate a friend.

"I am frightened to what's to come, and sad and less hopeful," said Holmes, 34,
an urban planning and real estate consultant. But he added, "I'm feeling more
engaged."

Shoppers have generally been moving away from buying "stuff" and more toward
spending on experiences. Factors from the weather to when Thanksgiving falls
already affect how stores fare at the holidays, and retailers from department
stores to discounters are under intense pressure from online sellers to offer
low prices and convenience.

A dip in buying before a presidential election is normal as people are
distracted, but spending usually bounces back afterward.

Tamara Gaffney, principal analyst and director at Adobe Systems, an online
research company, said that between Nov. 1 and Nov. 14 this year, retailers lost
out on more than $800 million in online revenue, with the sharpest drop
happening after the Nov. 8 election. States that voted Democratic have seen the
biggest drops since the election, she said. Gaffney says she's waiting to see
how the Thanksgiving weekend plays out and may have to revise the original
holiday online sales growth forecast of 11 percent.

"We are in uncharted territory," said Gerald Storch, the CEO of Hudson's Bay
Co., which operates department stores under that name, Lord & Taylor and Saks
Fifth Avenue. "We will know more as we get past Black Friday."

The divide could play into the hands of retailers who customize goods to cater
to increasingly fragmented tastes.

"While some people might drive an election boost, there are going to be others
that will hold back," said Frank Badillo, director of research at consumer
research group MacroSavvy LLC. "The winners and losers are going to be divided
by category, by store, by different parts of the country."

Peter Gold, chief marketing officer at Market America's online marketplace
Shop.com, says since late October he's seen a sales surge in spa products,
candles, and comfort food that he expects will continue through the holidays.

Products that bear words like "hope" and "kindness" are seeing sales as much as
double since the election, says Lee Rhodes, founder and CEO of the nine-store
Glassybaby chain that sells handblown glass items. Those with themes like "elf"
and "joy" have not kept pace, she said.

Nielsen's most recent surveys have shown that food has catapulted into the No. 2
spot in terms of hot holiday gifts, past toys and consumer electronics this
season, said Jordan Rost of the company's consumer insights division. Gift cards
ranked first, as they have for several years. He said food is a safe bet for
retailers because millennials turn to comfort food when they are stressed, and
baby boomers turn to food as a reward.

Miriam Naficy, whose online retail site Minted crowdsources stationery as well
as art and home decor, noticed a gap in what customers wanted in greeting cards.

After rising 9 percent since Oct. 1 in all states, the demand for the word
"cheer," in holiday cards has fallen 14 percent since the election. Demand for
cards using "peace," which is not usually as popular, was up 14 percent, and
those using "hope" rose 9 percent.

"We are scrambling quickly to repurpose the cards," said Naficy. "Half the
audience is happy; the other half are not. Some people are trying to send love
in their own way - some people want to send love in a quiet way. You have to
have something for everyone."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             501 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Campaign Promise

BYLINE: JONATHAN O'CONNELL

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 693  words


President-elect Donald Trump tweeted Thanksgiving morning that he was trying to
make good on a campaign promise that a Carrier air conditioning factory in
Indiana, and its 1,400 jobs, would not move to Mexico in 2019 as planned.

"I am working hard, even on Thanksgiving, trying to get Carrier A.C. Company to
stay in the U.S. (Indiana). MAKING PROGRESS - Will know soon!:" Trump tweeted.

Carrier, a division of United Technologies Corp. of Farmington, responded with a
tweet about an hour later: "Carrier has had discussions with the incoming
administration and we look forward to working together. Nothing to announce at
this time."

During the campaign, Trump called the planned closure of the Indianapolis plant
"disgusting" and "un-American" and made it a campaign rallying cry. At an
Indianapolis event in May he went further, offering the crowd a "100 percent
guarantee" the plant would not leave if he were elected.

"Here's what's going to happen," Trump said, according to Bloomberg. "They're
going to call me and they are going to say 'Mr. President, Carrier has decided
to stay in Indiana.' "

"One hundred percent - that's what is going to happen," Trump added. "It's not
like we have an 80 percent chance of keeping them or a 95 percent. 100 percent."

Earlier this month, Gregory Hayes, UTC chief executive officer, vigorously
defended global trade Tuesday, taking particular aim at Trump, who has
criticized the conglomerate for shipping jobs to Mexico from Indiana.

In a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations in New York City on Nov. 1,
Hayes defended UTC's decision to move jobs from subsidiary Carrier and waded
into the national debate over trade policy. He credited international commerce
for decadeslong global economic growth.

"The forces of globalization are real and they are inescapable," he said. "The
genie truly is out of the bottle and it's not really open to debate.
Globalization has happened and it will continue apace."

Without mentioning Trump by name, Hayes alluded to Republican presidential
candidate's campaign promise to "make America great again" as he criticized the
candidate's opposition to trade deals.

"Developing an isolationist approach will not - I repeat not - create growth or
jobs nor will it make any country great," he said. "It will simply take us all
backward."

Hayes dismissed as "political rhetoric" criticism of UTC's decision announced in
February to move the 1,400 Carrier jobs.

"In truth, we were behind the curve as most of our competitors had already made
the move to Mexico in the last 10 years," he said.

More than 200 new regulations on efficiency standards have driven up the cost of
air conditioners "and the only way to be competitive in the marketplace was to
reduce labor costs," he said.

The Carrier back-and-forth was reminiscent of a similar exchange over
manufacturing facilities that Trump began a week earlier, when the
president-elect bragged on Twitter that he had received a call from Bill Ford,
executive chairman of Ford Motor Co., saying "he will be keeping the Lincoln
plant in Kentucky - no Mexico."

Trump's claim was exaggerated, as Ford's union contract prevented it from
shutting down its Louisville assembly plant. Ford clarified that it had merely
decided not to relocate production of a single vehicle, the Lincoln MKC, from
Kentucky.

Carrier announced its plans to shut down the Indiana plant in February, with the
closure slated for 2019.

Chris Nelson, a Carrier president overseeing the unit, issued a statement at the
time saying the move to Mexico would allow the company "to operate more cost
effectively" because of the industry's ongoing migration to that area as well as
"cost and pricing pressures driven, in part, by new regulatory requirements."

The closure could lead to the loss of more than $100 million to the Indiana
economy and more than 1,000 other jobs that indirectly relied on the plant,
according to some estimates.

Trump's promise to save the plant was met with skepticism in some corners of
Indiana, home state of Vice President-elect Mike Pence, but he carried the state
easily over Hillary Clinton.

Courant staff writer Stephen Singer contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             502 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 25, 2016 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Will States Go

SECTION: OPINION; A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 626  words


Will States Go

Their Separate Ways?

I would venture to guess that in the not too distant future, the United States
of America may be more aptly called just States in America.

This election was a sign of the winds of change, good or bad depending on how
you see it, but the rise of states' dominion and interpretation of the
Constitution seems to be one outcome the current victors are championing. The
years to come may see radically different state or regional laws, greater
challenges to what the national Constitution really means and perhaps eventually
a series of state nations with only geography in common.

It's fairly obvious we already have two (or more) Americas, based on the
election results and reactions afterward. "A house divided against itself cannot
stand," Lincoln warned, but Lincoln only had two halves to unite.

Dominic Gagliardo, Burlington

Still One Of The Best

Nations In World

Regardless of political affiliation, there is a nation to be managed and a
democracy to be preserved. We are still one of the best nations in the world. We
are certainly not in dire straits.

There may be things that need correction, but we will rise to the occasion, as
always. Let us remember that every one of us is molded by the same DNA. We are
kin. Need we say more.

Oscar Burgeson, Bristol

My Generation Not Where You Think On Trump

As a young millennial who voted in my first presidential election, I was stunned
by the results. What surprised me the most about this election was how silent
many of Donald Trump's supporters really were throughout the campaign season. I
think that is the reason why the polls were so wrong; there was and still is a
stigma among some groups attached to being a Donald Trump supporter.

There were plenty of Trump supporters who wore their support for him on their
sleeves, but there was a significant number, at least in my own community, who
silently supported him. I also have plenty of friends and acquaintances who I
knew were Trump supporters before the election, and I had come to terms with
that.

However, it was my friends who had spent the entire campaign complaining about
both candidates and then voted for Trump who shocked me. It wasn't just that
they supported Trump, it was the arbitrary and upsetting reasons they gave for
supporting him.

I am not going to stop being friends with them because they supported Trump, but
I will definitely look at them differently. I expected them, as young
millennials, to be progressive and forward-thinking. I guess I was wrong.

Marc-Yves Regis II, Newington

Upper Class, Working Class Diverging

Many are perplexed if not alarmed by the election of Donald Trump. The Democrats
can't fathom how their traditional white working-class base deserted them.

Part of the answer can be drawn from the 2012 book "Coming Apart." Author
Charles Murray analyzed cultural changes in the white population of America
since 1963, and concluded that civic culture is unraveling - "coming apart at
the seams" - but not on the basis of race or ethnicity, but of class. He found
increasing divergence between the new white upper class and the new white
working class.

Through intermarriage and lifestyle preferences, the more successful white upper
class is segregating itself physically and culturally from a new, deteriorating
white working class. The deterioration is due in part to the economic drag and
the insidious effects on individual initiative associated with the growth of the
welfare state. People of mixed classes are no longer coming together voluntarily
to solve their joint problems.

This white working class has been ignored by the white upper class and by both
political parties. No wonder those who are part of it see hope and change in an
outsider like Trump.

James Ristas, Windsor

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             503 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                           November 26, 2016 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

THE CABINET

BYLINE: JERRY MARKON,;KAREN TUMULTY;and KAROUN DEMIRJIAN

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 492  words



HIGHLIGHT: McGahn McFarland


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump on Friday named a libertarian election
lawyer as his White House counsel and a hard-line former Reagan administration
official to a top post on his national security staff.

Trump announced that Donald McGahn, a controversial former member of the Federal
Election Commission who had served as Trump's campaign lawyer, will be his White
House counsel.

In that job, McGahn will serve as the president's legal adviser - a job that has
involved occasionally arguing to restrain what the chief executive wants to do.

For deputy national security adviser, Trump chose Kathleen "KT" McFarland, who
in her most recent role as a Fox News analyst has expressed strident opposition
to many of President Barack Obama's national security policies.

She will serve as deputy under the national security adviser-designee Michael
Flynn, a retired lieutenant general and a fierce critic of Obama's stances on
Islamic extremism.

Meanwhile, failed Green Party candidate Jill Stein took new steps to force
recounts across key Midwestern battlegrounds that could complicate Trump's push
for  unity.

Stein, who earned little more than 1 percent of the national vote, formally
requested a Wisconsin recount Friday, vowing to do the same in the coming days
in Michigan and Pennsylvania. There is no evidence of election tampering in the
states where Trump scored razor-thin victories, but Green Party spokesman George
Martin insisted "the American public needs to have it investigated to make sure
our votes count."

"We're doing this to ensure the integrity of our system," he said.

Trump's Nov. 8 victory was unexpected and, by some measures, historic.

Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton leads the national popular vote by close to 2
million votes. Trump scored narrow victories in key battleground states,
however, giving him the necessary 270 electoral votes to assume office.

Trump's team ignored questions about the looming recounts. Set to assume the
presidency in 55 days, the president-elect was focused instead on the task of
building an administration from scratch.

In a statement, Trump cited McFarland's "tremendous experience and innate
talent" and said McGahn "has a brilliant legal mind, excellent character and a
deep understanding of constitutional law."

Neither McGahn nor McFarland will require Senate confirmation.

Trump's presidency will present his White House counsel with new - and
unprecedented - challenges. The president-elect has said that his family will
continue to run his global business enterprises, which could raise a host of
potential conflicts of interest as he makes policy decisions at home and in
dealing with foreign governments.

During his presidential campaign, Trump also suggested that he will take an
expansive approach to executive power.

Among other things, Trump has talked of establishing a religious test for
immigrants and setting up a national stop-and-frisk program.

Associated Press contributed.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             504 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

wisconsin

BYLINE: MATT ZAPOTOSKY

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053  words


Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign has been quietly exploring whether there
was any "outside interference" in the election results and will participate in
the election recount in Wisconsin initiated by Green Party presidential
candidate Jill Stein, a Clinton campaign lawyer said Saturday.

Clinton campaign lawyer Marc Elias said in a post on the Medium website that the
campaign has received "hundreds of messages, emails, and calls urging us to do
something, anything, to investigate claims that the election results were hacked
and altered in a way to disadvantage Secretary Clinton," especially in Michigan,
Wisconsin and Pennsylvania, where the "combined margin of victory for Donald
Trump was merely 107,000 votes."

Elias said the campaign has "not uncovered any actionable evidence of hacking or
outside attempts to alter the voting technology." But because of the margin of
victory - and the degree of apparent foreign interference during the campaign -
Elias said that Clinton officials had "quietly taken a number of steps in the
last two weeks to rule in or out any possibility of outside interference in the
vote tally in these critical battleground states."

He said that the Clinton campaign will participate in the Stein-initiated
recount in Wisconsin by having representatives on the ground monitoring the
count and having lawyers represent them in court if needed. And if Stein makes
good on efforts to prompt similar processes in Pennsylvania and Michigan, Elias
said, the Clinton campaign would do so there, as well.

"The campaign is grateful to all those who have expended time and effort to
investigate various claims of abnormalities and irregularities," Elias said.
"While that effort has not, in our view, resulted in evidence of manipulation of
results, now that a recount is underway, we believe we have an obligation to the
more than 64 million Americans who cast ballots for Hillary Clinton to
participate in ongoing proceedings to ensure that an accurate vote count will be
reported."

The recount effort is somewhat unusual in that it comes weeks after Clinton
conceded - and at the request and with the financial backing of a third-party
candidate, Stein, who has no chance of winning, said election-law expert Richard
Hasen, a law professor at the University of California at Irvine. Clinton, too,
has virtually no chance of altering the result, given that she would have to
reverse not just Wisconsin but also Michigan and Pennsylvania to become
president, Hasen said.

In a statement, Trump said the recount was "just a way for Jill Stein, who
received less than one percent of the vote overall and wasn't even on the ballot
in many states, to fill her coffers with money" and said the election results
should be "respected instead of being challenged and abused, which is exactly
what Jill Stein is doing."

"The people have spoken and the election is over, and as Hillary Clinton herself
said on election night, in addition to her conceding by congratulating me, 'We
must accept this result and then look to the future,' " Trump said.

For her part, Stein took to Twitter to question Clinton's motives for
participating in the recount effort.

"Why would Hillary Clinton - who conceded the election to Donald Trump - want
#Recount2016?" Stein wrote. "You cannot be on-again, off-again about democracy."

Trump won 1,404,000 votes in Wisconsin, according to the state's election
commission, while Clinton had 1,381,823. The Wisconsin recount will be conducted
by county boards of canvassers, who must move quickly to meet a mid-December
deadline to ensure the state's electoral votes are counted. Stein has to file by
Monday to prompt a recount in Pennsylvania, and by Wednesday to trigger a
recount in Michigan. The results in that state are not technically certified
until Monday.

The presidential campaign was marked by fears that Russian hacking might affect
the outcome, especially after the hackers penetrated the computer network of the
Democratic National Committee and were found to have attempted intrusions on
voter registration databases. The Washington Post also recently reported, citing
researchers who tracked the phenomenon, that Russians created and spread fake
news about the election with the apparent goal of helping Trump.

During the campaign, Clinton criticized Trump for refusing to say that he would
accept the election results if she won. Asked during an October debate whether
he would do so, Trump responded that he would "keep you in suspense." Clinton
called that answer "horrifying" and said Trump was "talking down our democracy."

In recent days, though, it is Clinton's supporters who have raised questions
about the outcome of the election. A viral post spread by some Clinton backers,
including actress Debra Messing, suggested - falsely - that the Justice
Department was "tallying calls" from people who wanted an audit of the 2016
election and urged people to make their displeasure known.

"Even if it's busy, keep calling," one version said. "We should not back down
from this."

New York magazine reported that Clinton was being urged "by a group of prominent
computer scientists and election lawyers" to call for a recount in Wisconsin,
Michigan and Pennsylvania, and the group had some evidence of possibly unusual
activity. That fueled more skepticism and calls for action by Clinton
supporters.

The evidence of possible malfeasance, though, was limited. According to New York
magazine, the group found that Clinton "received 7 percent fewer votes in
counties that relied on electronic-voting machines compared with counties that
used optical scanners and paper ballots," and that based on that "statistical
analysis, Clinton may have been denied as many as 30,000 votes; she lost
Wisconsin by 27,000."

J. Alex Halderman, one of the academics reportedly involved, later wrote on
Medium that the deviations were "probably not" the result of a cyberattack, but
that "the only way to know whether a cyberattack changed the result is to
closely examine the available physical evidence - paper ballots and voting
equipment in critical states like Wisconsin, Michigan, and Pennsylvania."

Posting a link to a New York Times story about Clinton supporters calling for a
recount, senior Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway said, "Look who 'can't accept the
election results.' "

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             505 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            November 27, 2016 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Opinion

BYLINE: MARC A. THIESSEN

SECTION: OPINION; C; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 874  words



HIGHLIGHT: Representative Tim Ryan, a Democrat from Ohio, speaks during the
Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia in July. Tim Ryan, who is
challenging Nancy Pelosi, campaigned intensely for Hillary Clinton in his Rust
Belt district.BLOOMBERG | Bloomberg


Hey, Democrats, want help to rally the country around Donald Trump? Here's a
great idea: Have a crowd of wealthy, out-of-touch Manhattan liberals (who can
afford $849 tickets to "Hamilton") boo Vice President-elect Mike Pence while the
cast of the Broadway show lectures him on diversity.

The Democratic Party's alienation from the rest of America was on full display
at the Richard Rodgers Theatre a week ago. And the left seems completely
oblivious to how ridiculous it looks to the rest of the United States.

Professors at Yale and Columbia universities and other elite schools postponed
exams and canceled classes for students who could not deal with the election
results. Kids in Washington, D.C., schools cut class with tacit approval from
administrators to march in protest of the results of a free and fair election.
School officials in suburban D.C. offered grief counselors to "help students
process any concerns or feelings they have about the election." (Funny, I don't
recall anyone canceling exams or offering my kids grief counselors when Barack
Obama was elected.)

People in the American heartland see all this, and they shake their heads in
disgust. Today's Democrats have become a party of coastal elites completely
disconnected from the rest of America.

Doubt it? Take a look at a county-by-county map of the 2016 presidential
election. You can drive some 3,000 miles across the entire continental United
States - from sea to shining sea - without driving through a single county that
voted for Hillary Clinton.

At the national level, the Democratic Party has been wiped out. Trump won five
states that voted for Obama twice - Iowa, Wisconsin, Ohio, Pennsylvania and
Florida - pushing Democrats even further toward the coastal peripheries. As a
result, Republicans now control the House, the Senate, the White House, and
(after President Trump picks a new justice to replace Antonin Scalia) there will
be a restored conservative majority on the Supreme Court.

But that is nothing compared with the utter devastation Democrats have suffered
in the states.

On President Obama's watch, Democrats have lost a net grand total of 939 state
legislative seats, 30 state legislative chambers and a dozen governorships.

When Obama first took office, Republicans held just 3,223 state legislative
seats. After the Nov. 8 election, the number stands at 4,162. There are now more
Republican state legislators than at any time since 1920.

Or consider this: Today, Democrats control both the governor's office and the
legislature in just five states - Oregon, California, Hawaii, Connecticut and
Rhode Island. By contrast, Republicans have total control of state government in
25 states - half the country.

One Democrat who understands the need to for his party to reconnect with
working-class voters in middle America is Rep. Tim Ryan, D-Ohio, who has
challenged Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., for the post of House minority leader.

"What we are doing right now is not working," he wrote in a letter to his
colleagues. "Under our current leadership, Democrats have been reduced to our
smallest congressional minority since 1929. ... We have the fewest Democrats in
state and federal offices since Reconstruction."

If Democrats are smart, they will listen to Ryan. His district includes hurting
industrial areas such as Youngstown and Akron - so he understands how to win the
very voters Democrats lost in 2016 and need to win back. Do they have a better
chance of winning back those voters by electing him or an aging, coastal San
Francisco liberal such as Pelosi?

Ryan is young and dynamic - just 43 years old. The House Democratic leadership,
by contrast, is old. The Washington Post recently reported that the average age
of the House Democratic leadership is almost 65. And Pelosi is 76 - a year older
than Bernie Sanders. Perhaps Democrats should take the advice of John F. Kennedy
and pass the torch to a new generation.

The long-term problem for Democrats is that much of that new generation has been
wiped out at the polls. We saw the impact of the Democratic collapse in the
states during this year's presidential primaries. The Republican field was
brimming with candidates, while on the Democratic side Clinton struggled to
defeat a disheveled 75-year-old socialist from Vermont, and the rest of the
field - Martin O'Malley, Jim Webb and Lincoln Chafee - could not crack the low
single digits.

Eight years of losing statehouses and governors' mansions have left Democrats
with no bench. They are like an NFL team with aging stars who are long past
their prime and with few prospects in the pipeline.

Democrats may believe that the way back from the periphery is to follow the
advice Aaron Burr offers Alexander Hamilton: "Talk less. Smile more. Don't let
them know what you're against and what you're for." That didn't work out so well
for Clinton.

If Democrats can't find new leaders who can connect with the working-class
voters they lost to Donald Trump, they may find themselves even more isolated
from the American heartland than they are today.

Marc A. Thiessen is a fellow with the American Enterprise Institute, a
conservative think tank, and former chief speechwriter to President George W.
Bush. He wrote this for The Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             506 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Trump team debates key post

BYLINE: Philip Rucker ;and John Wagner

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 768  words



HIGHLIGHT: David Petraeus met with Donald Trump on Monday as the president-elect
expands his search for secretary of state.BEHAR ANTHONY/ EPA


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump is for now unswayed by the
extraordinarily public revolt by some of his top advisers and allies over the
possible choice of Mitt Romney as secretary of state and continues to see his
foe as a serious contender for the diplomatic post, several people briefed on
the deliberations said Monday.

Romney plans to have a private dinner Tuesday with Trump, who is said to be
intrigued by the notion of reconciling with one of his fiercest Republican
antagonists - even as he also weighs rewarding the loyalty of former New York
Mayor Rudy  Giuliani with one of the administration's most prized jobs or
selecting a decorated military officer in David  Petraeus.

Meanwhile, Trump has chosen Rep. Tom Price, R-Ga., an orthopedic surgeon who has
been one of Capitol Hill's fiercest critics of President Obama's health care
law, to be secretary of health and human services, a person briefed on the
decision confirmed Monday night.

The public announcement of Trump's selection of Price, a six-term congressman
who chairs the House Budget Committee and is regarded as a policy wonk, is
expected to be made as early as Tuesday.

As HHS secretary, Price would become the Trump administration's point person on
dismantling and replacing the Affordable Care Act, one of Trump's major campaign
promises.

For secretary of state, Trump is looking for assurances that Romney, the 2012
Republican presidential nominee who has championed a muscular and at times
interventionist foreign policy, could be trusted to defend and promote Trump's
markedly different worldview in capitals around the globe, the people familiar
with the president-elect's deliberations said.

Giuliani has openly campaigned for the job and has told friends that he is
likely to get it. But Trump's team has determined that it may be challenging and
even unlikely for Giuliani to win Senate confirmation: His web of international
business interests and the millions of dollars he has earned in paid speeches
and consulting work for foreign entities would come under scrutiny, while Sen.
Rand Paul, one of 10 Republicans on the Foreign Relations Committee, has
threatened to block Giuliani's nomination.

Romney and Giuliani have been seen as co-favorites to lead the State Department,
but Trump this week is expanding his search to include other candidates, chief
among them Petraeus, a retired Army general and former CIA director.

Transition officials said Trump has long admired Petraeus and described his
candidacy as formidable, despite the baggage he would carry into any
confirmation battle because of his 2015 conviction for mishandling classified
information. Petraeus' public service career came to an end amid revelations
that he had an affair with his biographer, Paula Broadwell, and shared
classified information with her.

Petraeus and Trump met Monday afternoon in New York for about an hour, with Vice
President-elect Mike Pence joining them for part of the session. As the general
exited Trump Tower following their session, he praised Trump, telling reporters
that he "showed a great grasp of a variety of the challenges that are out there
and some of the opportunities as well. Very good conversation."

Trump later tweeted, "Just met with General Petraeus - was very impressed!"

Trump will meet Tuesday with Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., who officials said could
emerge as a candidate, although the senator has said that he is unlikely to end
up in serious contention. As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
Corker would oversee the confirmation process of Trump's nominee.

The nascent Trump transition has been riven by infighting over the possible
nomination of Romney, who is seen as the quintessential establishment figure and
who spoke out against Trump's candidacy in harsh and personal terms.

Pence and some Trump advisers are said to have argued that Romney would be a
steady hand prepared to help shape relationships around the world. Trump is said
to have buried the hatchet with Romney at their Nov. 19 meeting and sees a
political benefit to bringing him into the administration: silencing a rival
Republican who has a big microphone and a network of wealthy donors.

But other Trump intimates have advocated forcefully for Giuliani, a trusted
loyalist and  Trump defender who developed a close bond with the candidate and
is more ideologically in sync with him.

The feud spilled into the open over Thanksgiving weekend as Kellyanne Conway,
Trump's former campaign manager and now a senior adviser, attacked Romney's
credentials and trustworthiness in a trio of Sunday television appearances.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             507 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

united technologies

BYLINE: STEPHEN SINGER

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811  words


President-elect Donald Trump may have considerable leverage in negotiations with
United Technologies Corp. as he tries to force the conglomerate to reverse its
decision to move 1,400 Carrier jobs to Mexico from Indiana.

Trump can renegotiate UTC's aerospace contracts with the Pentagon and seek
revised federal environmental regulations and performance standards governing
air conditioning and cooling equipment made by Carrier. He also could propose
new federal tax policy affecting billions of dollars in cash that UTC and other
conglomerates hold overseas.

"We have an administration that's going to evaluate corporate decisions and
trade-offs on a country level, not a company level," said Nick Heymann, an
analyst at William Blair and Co.

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders joined the fray Saturday, tying UTC's military work
to a commitment to keep its air conditioning plant in Indiana.

"I call on Mr. Trump to make it clear to the CEO of United Technologies that if
his firm wants to receive another defense contract from the taxpayers of this
country, it must not move these plants to Mexico," he said in a statement posted
on his website.

During the campaign, the Republican presidential candidate said he would
guarantee "100 percent" that the plants will stay in Indiana.

He tweeted Thursday he is trying to follow through on the promise that the
Carrier plant and the jobs would not move in 2019 as planned.

"I am working hard, even on Thanksgiving, trying to get Carrier A.C. Company to
stay in the U.S. (Indiana). MAKING PROGRESS - Will know soon!" Trump tweeted.

Carrier responded with a tweet about an hour later.

"Carrier has had discussions with the incoming administration and we look
forward to working together. Nothing to announce at this time," it said.

A spokesman for the Farmington-based UTC would not elaborate.

Greg Hayes, UTC's chief executive officer, said in an appearance at the Council
on Foreign Relations in New York Nov. 1 that with more than 200 new regulations
on efficiency standards for air conditioners, labor costs were the "only way to
be competitive in the marketplace."

Heymann said Trump could be "more accommodative" with environmental regulations,
finding a trade-off between job locations and rules governing the manufacturing
of air conditioning and heating equipment.

Bill Dornbos, director of the Connecticut office of Acadia Center, a clean
energy advocacy group, said changing the regulations could be difficult because
the rule-writing process is drawn out and complicated. For example, minimum
energy conservation standards apply to more than 60 categories of appliances and
equipment, according to the U.S. Department of Energy.

In addition, cutting energy efficiency standards for air conditioning equipment
would not likely help Carrier and other U.S. manufacturers because of
investments in meeting higher standards, he said.

"Any rollback would more likely end up benefiting foreign manufacturers who
could flood the market with lower-quality, less-efficient products," he said.

Heymann said Trump also could tie UTC's military business to its actions by
other subsidiaries. The conglomerate's U.S. military business generated $5.6
billion in sales last year, about 10 percent of total revenue.

"He's buying F135 engines more than air conditioners," he said.

Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst at Teal Group, said Trump could succeed,
but his policies are out of step with Republican Party philosophy of reducing
the state's role in business and the economy.

"It's doable if you're a politician who believes in very big, heavy government,"
he said. "You just have to go the extra mile as a big government politician."

He said it's unlikely Trump could stop the F135 engine, made by UTC's Pratt &
Whitney subsidiary for the Pentagon's jet fighter program, but he could change
the terms of future contracts.

Jeff Windau, an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis, said tax policy also may
be on the table. UTC reported more than 85 percent of its $7.1 billion in cash
was held by its foreign subsidiaries at the end of last year.

Corporations have been criticized for keeping cash outside the U.S. while
executives have defended the decision, saying U.S. taxes are excessive and not
competitive with what foreign governments levy.

Windau said UTC stands out as the one company potentially negotiating a range of
policies that affect numerous other conglomerates. But it began with an
emotional video earlier this year of Carrier workers being told their jobs were
heading to Mexico.

"The video came out that gained attention," he said. "It's one company out of a
lot that are global and international that make decisions every day."

Heymann said Trump looks through the "prism of economics and deals" and could
force businesses to understand the impact of their decisions on U.S. jobs.

"It's scary how transformative this is," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             508 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                           November 29, 2016 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Applauds Cities' Deportation Stand

SECTION: OPINION; A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 821  words


Applauds Cities' Deportation Stand

I applaud the mayors of major cities across the U.S. who oppose Donald Trump's
stated plans to deport 3 million undocumented immigrants from this country. The
hypocrisy of committing a violent expulsion of millions of mainly law-abiding,
nonviolent people when so many thousands of migrants are already violently
detained, confined and treated with little sympathy and less humanity in
immigration detention prisons across this country is stunning.

These plans have been made even more deceitful by false claims that there is an
unusually high percentage of immigrants committing violent crimes, or that these
offenders are being shielded by our existing laws. The immigration system
already has provisions to deport those who have committed violent felonies, and
in no cities are there barriers to criminal laws being enforced simply due to a
suspected person's immigration status.

I hope that more cities will join this cause and stand up for the rights of all
people to equal protection and due process of the law in this country, and for
the peaceful, fair and welcoming treatment toward all those who contribute to
it.

Alexander Acimovic, Brooklyn

Says Early Voting Means Cheating

Letter writers Cheri Quickmire and Michele Jacklin, both members of the
left-wing Common Cause, say so-called early voting is long overdue [Nov. 23,
"Connecticut Early Voting Overdue"].

This idea, however, was defeated at the polls as a state constitutional
amendment two years ago. I voted against it because we could never trust the
Democrats to fairly write the laws. What has changed in this proposal that
merits it being reconsidered?

Democrats far exceed Republicans in party registration in Connecticut. They
shouldn't need to resort to cheating in order to win.

John R. McCommas, Windham

Will Post-Truth Politics

Scuttle Climate Efforts?

The Oxford Dictionaries word of this year is "post-truth," which is often used
in the phrase "post-truth politics." Its definition: "Relating to or denoting
circumstances in which objective facts are less influential in shaping public
opinion than appeals to emotion and personal belief."

John Kerry's expressed hope at the global climate change summit in Morocco early
this month that the U.S. will intensify its efforts to decrease carbon emissions
fell on doubting ears given the Trump Doctrine of calling global warming a hoax.

Donald Trump's post-truth-based politics on many fronts should be enough to
disqualify him from making any decisions that negatively affect the world. I can
only hope that he surrounds himself with more enlightened people who rely on
facts rather than rhetoric.

Paul Neri, Clinton

Why Republicans Gained

Why did Republicans gain seats in the Connecticut legislature? Maybe the same
reason the presidential election went the way it did.

American voters are tired of ineffective government. According to Connecticut
AFL-CIO President Lori J. Pelletier, Republicans bought the election with funds
spent by "anti-worker, pro-corporate groups," including the Connecticut Business
and Industry Association spending $553,342 spread among 13 pro-business
candidates [Nov. 14, Page 1, "Hard Work, And Money, Boost GOP"].

Interestingly, U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro raised over $4 million compared with her
Republican opponent's $50,000, most of it his own money [Aug. 29, Page 1,
"DeLauro Faces Republican Maverick"]. We need to ask who is buying elected
office.

Republicans gained seats in the state legislature because Connecticut is failing
under Democratic leadership. City schools are failing, the antibusiness climate
is so harsh many businesses are leaving, and taxes and spending are rising. The
capital, a once-thriving business community, could be headed to bankruptcy.

The Democrats have forced a once prosperous state virtually to its economic
knees in just a short 20 years. Poor leadership and even poorer fiscal
management is to blame - not funding pro-business candidates.

I do not live here, but I do pay income tax here. The state is failing
financially and socially. Wake up, taxpayers.

Gary LaVallee, Holland, Mass.

Out Of The Frying Pan?

The supreme irony of this past election is that the middle class and the working
and rural poor, feeling betrayed and forgotten, abandoned the Democratic Party.
They clearly ignored the fact that it was the Democratic Party which, over many
decades, provided programs and services that have not only benefited but greatly
impacted their lives.

Now a Republican president and Congress will work tirelessly to undo all those
safety nets and replace them with programs that will provide a mere pittance.

Even if Donald Trump makes good on his promise of more jobs, the costs of
privatization and the stinting of services will offset any employment gains.
Shortly after the election, Garrison Keillor wrote that Trump's "supporters
voted for change, and boy, are they going to get it."

Eugene Eagle, Old Saybrook

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             509 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Trump picks from Wall St., D.C.

BYLINE: Steve Peoples, Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar ;and Julie Pace

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 734  words



HIGHLIGHT: Steve Mnuchin, right, has been tapped for secretary of the Treasury.
Among Donald Trump's other picks are, from top right, Elaine Chao for
Transportation, Rep. Tom Price for Health secretary and Seema Verma for Medicare
and Medicaid.Drew Angerer/Getty Drew Angerer/Getty Carolyn Kaster/AP Drew
Angerer/Getty


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump is tapping a trio of nominees with
deep ties to Washington and Wall Street to fill out his Cabinet, including
former Goldman Sachs executive Steven Mnuchin as treasury secretary.

A transition official said the president-elect and Vice President-elect Mike
Pence will travel to Indiana on Thursday for an event with Carrier, the air
conditioning company. During the campaign, Trump repeatedly used the news of
Carrier's plans to move some business to Mexico as criticism of Democratic trade
policies. Carrier tweeted, "We are pleased to have reached a deal with
President-elect Trump & VP-elect Pence to keep close to 1,000 jobs in Indy."

On Tuesday, Trump also chose Georgia Rep. Tom Price to oversee the nation's
health care system, picking a fierce Obamacare critic who has championed efforts
to privatize Medicare. And he selected another veteran Republican, Elaine Chao,
to lead the Department of Transportation.

Trump's team also announced that Seema Verma has been chosen to be administrator
of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

Mnuchin, 53, led Trump's finance operations during the presidential campaign
but he has no government experience, which could prove a hurdle in navigating
the tricky politics of Washington.

Mnuchin is expected to be joined on Trump's senior economic team Wilbur Ross,
the reputed Commerce Secretary pick. The billionaire investor is considered the
"king of bankruptcy" for buying beaten-down companies with the potential to
deliver profits.

Price, picked to lead the Department of Health and Human Services, helped craft
House Speaker Paul Ryan's plan to privatize Medicare - which Trump opposed in
the campaign. Chao, who  served under George W. Bush,  is married to Senate
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.

The selections came as Trump spent Tuesday with advisers in Manhattan, racing
through meetings  as high-profile vacancies loom - none bigger than secretary of
state. Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, on the shortlist for the nation's
chief diplomat, was to have a private dinner with Trump.

At the same time, Green Party presidential candidate Jill Stein delivered $3.5
million to the state of Wisconsin to guarantee a recount in one of the states
that fueled Trump's unexpected victory.

Trump has assailed the Green Party effort as a scam and separately has made
unsupported claims of voter fraud in other states.

Meanwhile, Price's selection raised questions about the incoming president's
commitment to Medicare, among other popular  programs he repeatedly vowed to
preserve before the election. The Georgia congressman led GOP efforts on Capitol
Hill to transform Medicare into a voucher-like system.

Trump did not address Price's position on Medicare in a statement released by
his transition team. The team did not respond to subsequent questions about it.

Trump, in a 2015 interview promoted on his campaign website, pledged not to cut
expensive  programs that Republicans have fought for years to cut.

He later embraced the GOP concept of turning Medicaid over to the states with a
fixed amount of federal "block grant" funding.

A sweeping Medicare initiative would have to go through Congress with some
Democratic support, which would be unlikely.

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders charged that Price "has a long history of wanting to
do exactly the opposite of what Trump campaigned on."

Like Price, Chao is well-known in Washington, having led the Department of Labor
for several years.

Her record as labor secretary suggests she would bring a light hand to safety
enforcement as transportation secretary.

Both Price and Chao would require Senate confirmation.

The president-elect  also met with Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, chairman of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, having met with former CIA director David
Petraeus the day before regarding the secretary of state job.

Even as he weighed crucial Cabinet decisions, Trump appeared distracted by
outside issues - or eager to create distractions himself. He tweeted that
"nobody should be allowed to burn the American flag." He warned that those who
do should face "perhaps loss of citizenship or year in jail!"

Trump offered no context for his message. The Supreme Court has ruled that flag
burning is protected by the First Amendment, and Republican House Majority
Leader Kevin McCarthy said Tuesday he doesn't support Trump's approach.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             510 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                          November 30, 2016 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Keep Postelection Public Discourse Civil

BYLINE: MILES HALPINE

SECTION: OPINION; A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 704  words


After the presidential election, my immediate reaction was probably similar to
many, not just in Connecticut but across the country, who supported Hillary
Clinton. Especially for those of us who worked on campaigns this year, there has
been much retrospection and honest dialogue throughout the last few weeks. At
the same time, there has also been no shortage of hot takes, Twitter threads and
opinionated pieces (sorry for not reading most of them).

Probably one of the biggest outcomes in the electoral aftermath is how this
affects the public discourse - starting at the youngest ages. I come from a
family with several teachers, and I have heard firsthand stories of students
discriminating against and bullying others based on their backgrounds or beliefs
- and these are students as young as sixth grade.

As if that weren't enough, there were multiple reports of similar incidents
elsewhere in the United States. What's worse, even with the campaign in the
rearview mirror and fading behind us after an agonizing amount of time, it is
unlikely that such behavior will disappear or lessen at all.

If the goal moving forward is unity, it will be tough to accomplish with a
president-elect who incited hatred and used divisive rhetoric while campaigning
over the last 18 months. The issue at hand is not simply the concept of treating
each other with the same amount of respect we'd expect to receive ourselves,
which should be a no-brainer at this point. In reality, it comes down to
something deeper.

When the recordings from "Access Hollywood" were released, we learned how Donald
Trump talked about treating women. The talking heads on television promptly
responded, expressing particular concern about the president-elect's remarks
because they have daughters. However, that should not have been the only way to
view the coarse remarks about women. They should be concerned about their sons'
reaction to such vulgar language as well - if anything, more so.

As the holiday season continues, a certain amount of discourse or civic
discussion seems inevitable at the dinner table with family members. Granted, at
some tables there will be no shortage of disagreements. Even if not the norm for
some, it will most likely be true for a great many this year.

Yet even when such disputes arise, there should be every effort to keep the tone
civil without the blatant signs of hatred that has been displayed across the
state in recent days. Just days ago, someone vandalized the athletic complex at
Wilbur Cross High School in New Haven with Nazi swastikas. Earlier this month,
someone appeared dressed in KKK regalia at a bonfire gathering in East Windsor.
The Friday before that same weekend, a group of students from Wilton High School
reportedly chanted "build the wall" during a football game with Danbury. It
almost goes without saying, such actions should not be tolerated by anyone.

The phrase "if you see something, say something" has a new relevance. Should
colleagues at work joke about rounding up any Muslim co-workers for the
president-elect's national registry, don't allow that to occur without a common
sense response explaining the impropriety of such a plan. If you hear friends
making sexist comments about a woman, point out how they are being
disrespectful. When your uncle or other highly opinionated relative starts going
off about making Mexico pay for a wall, politely state that it would not be
feasible. While you're at it, mention how this isn't what our country is about.

The United States represents building bridges so we can all succeed. It also
means being accepting of other people. No matter their ethnicity, race, gender
or sexual orientation, they all deserve the same opportunity to achieve the
American dream.

Miles Halpine, 22, of Bethany, is director of communications for the Connecticut
Conference of Democratic Mayors and has worked on numerous Democratic campaigns.

The Courant invites writers younger than 30 to write essays of 650 words or less
containing strong views. Please email your submission to freshtalk@courant.com,
with your full name, hometown, daytime phone number, age and occupation (or your
school's name and your level in school). You can also fax op-eds to
860-520-6941.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             511 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Stein takes presidential recount effort to Michigan

BYLINE: David Eggert

SECTION: MAIN; A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 375  words


LANSING, Mich. - Green Party presidential nominee Jill Stein on Wednesday
requested a full hand recount of Michigan's presidential vote, making it the
third state narrowly won by Republican Donald Trump where she wants another look
at the results.

Stein previously asked for recounts  in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

Trump, the president-elect, defeated  Hillary Clinton by about 10,700 votes out
of nearly 4.8 million ballots cast in Michigan, or two-tenths of a percentage
point. But Stein alleges that irregularities and the possibility that vote
scanning devices could have been hacked call the results into question.
Elections officials in all three states have expressed confidence in the
results.

Michigan's recount could start as early as Friday, though a challenge  by Trump
may delay it.

"We simply won't know if there was hacking or interference in this election
unless we look at the votes - every vote systematically, impartially and by
hand," Jessica Clarke, a lawyer for the Stein campaign, said during a news
conference outside of the Michigan Bureau of Elections.

University of Michigan computer scientist Alex Halderman, who says voting
machines and optical scanners that count ballots are prone to errors and outside
manipulation, told reporters that the recount will show "for sure" whether
cyberattacks have occurred.

"More importantly, (the recount) will provide a defense in the future and a
deterrent to any adversary who might want to try to hack future elections."

Trump's victory is highly unlikely to be reversed in any of the states.

The GOP says a Michigan recount would cost taxpayers far more than the $973,000
Stein paid when filing her recount petition.

Secretary of State Ruth Johnson, a Republican, called Stein's request "unusual,"
especially because  there is no evidence of fraud or "even a credible allegation
of any tampering."

Meanwhile in Wisconsin, where Trump defeated Clinton by roughly 22,000 votes,
Stein's campaign said it won't appeal a judge's ruling that Wisconsin's recount
can be done without counting every ballot by hand. Most counties plan to do hand
recounts anyway. That recount is due to start Thursday.

Trump defeated Clinton in Pennsylvania by about 71,000 votes, or about 1
percentage point.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             512 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 First Edition

McIntosh weighs runs for statewide office

BYLINE: Erin Cox

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 523  words



HIGHLIGHT: McIntosh


Del. Maggie McIntosh of Baltimore, a veteran Democratic lawmaker, is weighing a
run against Maryland's popular Republican Gov. Larry Hogan.

McIntosh said Thursday she's considering a run for statewide office in 2018. She
said she was inspired to act by Democrat Hillary Clinton's loss in the
presidential election last week and the lack of women in high-profile Maryland
political jobs.

With the retirement of Sen. Barbara A. Mikulski and the primary loss of Rep.
Donna Edwards, Maryland elected an all-male congressional delegation last week
for the first time in 46 years. A woman has never served as Maryland's governor,
or as presiding officer in either chamber of the General Assembly.

McIntosh, the 68-year-old chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, said
she is also considering a run against Democratic Comptroller Peter Franchot. The
comptroller has angered many in his party by creating what Franchot has called a
strategic partnership with Hogan.

"Last week's election made me dig deeper and ask myself whether I should listen
to several people who have encouraged me to think about statewide office,"
McIntosh said Thursday.

She said many Democrats are asking what they can do following the election of
Republican Donald Trump and the defeat of the first woman to be nominated for
president by a major political party.

McIntosh, a 24-year veteran of the House of Delegates, rose to leadership more
than 20 years ago. She was the first openly gay member of the Assembly and a key
player in passing the state's same-sex marriage legislation in 2012. She then
marshaled resources to defend the law when it went to referendum.

She is a close ally of House Speaker Michael E. Busch and a sharp-tongued critic
of some of Hogan's spending policies.

McIntosh told The Baltimore Sun this summer she was "perplexed and disturbed" by
the lack of Democratic women available to step up when Mikulski announced her
decision last year to retire after 30 years in the Senate.

McIntosh said she decided not to run for higher officer when the opportunity
came earlier in her career.

Now, she said, she was convening a group of people to evaluate the next best
step for her political career. That group does not include Mikulski, for whom
McIntosh once worked. Still, McIntosh said the outgoing senator was her "biggest
cheerleader."

McIntosh posted a mock-up of a bumper sticker on Facebook this week that read
"McIntosh 2018."

"My constituents liked it," she said.

She plans to conduct polls and evaluate the likelihood of raising enough cash
for a statewide campaign. Recent campaigns have cost as much as $11.2 million in
the primary alone.

She also said several times in a brief interview that she would be happy to
remain in the legislature.

"I love my role here. I love it," she said after attending a two-hour briefing
on the state's finances.

Baltimore County Executive Kevin Kamenetz, a Democrat, has said he is
considering a run for governor. Democrats reportedly considering a run for
comptroller include state Sen. James C. Rosapepe and Del. Joseline Pena-Melnyk,
both Prince George's County Democrats.

ecox@baltsun.com

twitter.com/ErinatTheSun

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             513 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 4Star Edition

Trump dispatches his 'secret weapon'

BYLINE: Lisa Mascaro

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 706  words



HIGHLIGHT: Vice president-elect Mike Pence, left, meets Thursday with Sen. Chuck
Schumer, D-N.Y.JIM WATSON/Getty-AFP


WASHINGTON - Vice President-elect Mike Pence stood before a roomful of House
Republicans on Thursday and asked how many had his cellphone number.

Chuckles of laughter rippled through the private meeting in the Capitol
basement.

"A lot of you do," Pence said, according to those in attendance.

The former congressman is proving an effective envoy for President-elect Donald
Trump, and his Capitol Hill visit offered a preview of the crucial role many
believe the outgoing Indiana governor will play as liaison between lawmakers and
the Trump White House.

"He is the secret weapon," said Rep.  David Schweikert, R-Ariz., who was among
those fiscal conservatives initially reluctant to support the party's
presidential nominee. "There's going to be tough moments, and he's someone you
can pick up the phone and call."

Dispatching Pence to the Hill was part of the Trump team's ongoing effort to
reverse the narrative of a rocky presidential transition.

Late Thursday, a senior Trump official said  Trump offered retired Lt. Gen.
Michael Flynn the job of national security adviser, The Associated Press
reported.

Flynn, who served as the director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, has
advised Trump on national security issues for months.

The official wouldn't say whether Flynn had accepted the job. The official was
not authorized to discuss the offer publicly and insisted on anonymity.

High-profile visitors, many eyeing top Cabinet posts, have streamed in and out
of Trump Tower in New York. They included Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions, Wall
Street executive Steven Mnuchin, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and several
of Trump's children. South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley was thought to have visited
but was not observed by reporters entering the building.

Also reportedly ready to meet with the president-elect was former GOP
presidential nominee Mitt Romney, who had called Trump a "phony" and a "fraud"
during the campaign. According to numerous media reports, the pair planned to
speak over the weekend.

On Thursday in New York, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had a face-to-face
meeting with Trump that raised some eyebrows because it went beyond the short
congratulatory phone call that usually occurs between a president-elect and a
world leader. Abe described the meeting as "really cordial" and said he was
convinced that he was able to establish a relationship of trust, The AP
reported.

Trump advisers downplayed the session as a private, informal meeting.

During a newly launched daily conference call to update the news media on the
transition, Trump spokesman Jason Miller said that by next week the team will
have announced a roster of aides who will begin contacting various federal
agencies to discuss transition matters. Delays in making those contacts have
caused alarm among some.

"I'm hearing from all these agencies that they're beginning to panic - that
they've heard from no one on the transition team," said Sen. Claire McCaskill,
D-Mo. "So I think it's a problem."

Miller said the first "landing team" will focus on national security, reaching
out to officials from the Pentagon, the State Department and other security
agencies. Officials said the Pentagon team could arrive as early as Friday.

An economic team is promised by Tuesday and a domestic team by Wednesday, Miller
said.

The transition team has been battling the perception of disorganization and
infighting, particularly after the departure earlier this week of key advisers.

The shake-up led to speculation about the outsize influence of Trump's
son-in-law, Jared Kushner, whom some blamed for pushing out former transition
chairman Chris Christie and his allies.

Sending Pence to Capitol Hill served as a reminder of one the reasons Trump
chose the even-tempered conservative for his team.

Even doubters of the president-elect came away feeling more at ease with Pence's
presence.

"He made it clear that he and the president-elect want to work with all of us,
no matter what position we took during the presidential campaign," said Rep.
Carlos Curbelo, R-Fla., an outspoken opponent of Trump. "I'm very encouraged.
He's going to be very engaged - perhaps in recent history the vice president
that will most be engaged in the Congress."

lisa.mascaro@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             514 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 4Star Edition

Pelosi faces Ohio challenger for minority leader post

BYLINE: Andrew Taylor and Mary Clare Jalonick

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 347  words



HIGHLIGHT: Pelosi Ryan


WASHINGTON - House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi is facing a challenge from a
frustrated younger member in her caucus as the party faces another two years in
the minority.

Ohio Rep. Tim Ryan said Thursday that he will challenge the California lawmaker,
who has led the party since 2002 and was the first female speaker from 2007-11,
in leadership elections later this month.

Democrats have been reeling since last week when the party won fewer seats than
she had predicted and lost the presidency.

"What we are doing right now is not working," Ryan, 43, said in a letter to
colleagues.

Ryan is from a Rust Belt state that President Barack Obama won in 2008 and 2012,
but that President-elect Donald Trump won easily this year. Along with younger
members in the caucus, Democrats from several Midwestern states have expressed
concern that the party has become too focused on the two coasts and forgotten
the working-class voters in the middle. Pelosi is from San Francisco.

Pelosi is still the favorite to win another term as leader. She said in
announcing her candidacy Wednesday that she has the backing of two-thirds of the
caucus, though Ryan questioned that number.

The election is Nov. 30. It had been scheduled for Thursday but was postponed
until after Thanksgiving.

Pelosi, 76, is a survivor who enjoys enormous respect and goodwill among most
Democrats, even as many of her closest allies have left Congress. She has
managed to maintain unity within the diverse flock of House Democrats and is an
unparalleled fundraiser for them, collecting more than $100 million in the past
cycle alone.

Ryan's bid marks the second time Pelosi has faced a challenge after a dismal
Democratic performance in an election. She easily beat back North Carolina Rep.
Heath Shuler 150-43 after the party lost the majority in 2010.

Meanwhile, Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine said Thursday that he will seek re-election
in 2018, but he is ruling out a presidential bid in 2020.

The former Democratic vice presidential nominee said his place is in the Senate
and his decision not to run in 2020 is final.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             515 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            November 18, 2016 Friday
                                 First Edition

On way out, top spy says outed Russia eased hacks

BYLINE: Deb Riechmann

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 575  words



HIGHLIGHT: Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, 75, said his
resignation letter is effective at noon Inauguration Day.JIM LO SCALZO/EPA


WASHINGTON - Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said Thursday that
Russia curtailed its election-related cyberactivity after the Obama
administration accused Moscow of trying to interfere with the presidential race.

The top intelligence official, who has held the position since 2010, also said
he had submitted a resignation letter effective at the end of President Barack
Obama's term.

Clapper, in one of his last appearances on Capitol Hill, defended the
administration's response to allegations that intelligence officials at the U.S.
Central Command, which oversees the Middle East, pressured analysts to discard
information that reflected poorly on the war effort in Iraq and Syria.

He also predicted that the information warfare that Russia has conducted since
the Soviet era would likely continue beyond the U.S. election cycle.

Hacked emails from Democratic Party officials were released by the anti-secrecy
group WikiLeaks during the presidential campaign, revealing details embarrassing
to Democrat Hillary Clinton's campaign.

Clapper and the Department of Homeland Security said in October that based on
the "scope and sensitivity" of the hacking efforts, only Russia's "senior-most
officials" could have authorized the hacking. Russia has denied involvement.

"After the issuance of the statement and the communication that I know took
place between our government and Russian government, it seemed to have curtailed
the cyberactivity that the Russians were previously engaged in," Clapper said.

He said he was referring to the "cyber-reconnaissance" that had been observed
prior to the statement. "That sort of activity seemed to have curtailed," he
said.

He said intelligence agencies don't have good insight on when or how WikiLeaks
obtained the hacked emails.

The committee chairman, Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., took Clapper, along with two
defense officials who testified, to task about allegations that CENTCOM massaged
intelligence reports to make it appear the U.S. was doing better than it was in
Iraq and Syria.

Nunes said lawmakers have not seen any "meaningful correction actions" taken by
defense or intelligence officials. The allegations are still being investigated.

Clapper noted that a recent survey of intelligence employees has shown increases
in the percentage of employees who think their reports have been satisfactorily
handled.

"This is a one-year period, but it does show a positive trend," Clapper said.

On Ukraine, Clapper predicted that Russia would sustain its presence in the
eastern part of the country. Russia's annexation of Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula
and its support for separatist rebels in the east brought relations between the
two ex-Soviet neighbors to the verge of full rupture.

Also on Russia, Clapper said he did not foresee a change in Russian aggression
in NATO countries in light of President-elect Donald Trump's plan to seek
improved U.S.-Russia relations.

He noted that Russia's only aircraft carrier recently deployed to the
Mediterranean Sea - an indication that "the Russians are there to stay."

On his retirement plans, Clapper, 75, said it "felt pretty good" to submit his
formal letter of resignation Wednesday. All top administration officials sign
resignation letters before they depart Jan. 20. Clapper said his resignation
letter is effective at noon on Inauguration Day.

"I got 64 days left and I think I'd have a hard time with my wife anything past
that," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             516 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Trump settles Trump U. fraud lawsuits for $25M

BYLINE: Rosalind S. Helderman

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 585  words



HIGHLIGHT: Donald Trump's lawyers say they would have won the cases if they had
gone to trial.Gregory Bull/AP


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump, who has repeatedly bragged he never
settles lawsuits despite a long history of doing so, has agreed to a $25 million
settlement to end the fraud cases pending against his defunct real estate
seminar program, Trump University, according to New York Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman.

Schneiderman said in a Friday statement that the settlement includes a $1
million penalty paid to New York state for violating the state's  laws by
calling the program a "university" despite offering no degrees or traditional
education.

Schneiderman said his office had sued Trump for "swindling thousands of innocent
Americans out of millions of dollars" and that the settlement had come despite
resistance from Trump.

"Today, that all changes. Today's $25 million settlement agreement is a stunning
reversal by Donald Trump and a major victory for the over 6,000 victims of his
fraudulent university," he said.

Trump's lawyers  say the settlement will allow  him to devote  full attention to
the challenges facing the nation. The lawyers said they have no doubt Trump
University would have won the cases if they had gone to trial. The deal doesn't
require Trump to acknowledge wrongdoing.

The settlement eliminates the possibility that Trump will be called to testify
in court in the midst of his presidential transition. The deal ends three
lawsuits against him, including a California class-action case that was
scheduled to go to trial Nov. 28, as well as a second lawsuit in that state and
the New York state action.

Negotiations over the Trump University deal were handled in part by lawyers for
Schneiderman, a Democrat, who had filed suit against Trump University in 2013.
Schneiderman has called the real estate program "a fraud from beginning to end."

The fates of the New York case and the two California suits are linked because
they were all brought on behalf of an overlapping pool of former Trump
University customers, said the person familiar with the situation, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the ongoing negotiations.

Trump is known for aggressively pursuing his business interests in court. Still,
he has settled lawsuits many times, despite arguing that doing so only invites
further litigation.

The Trump University case emerged as a political issue during the presidential
campaign.

As he rose in the polls, won primaries and emerged as the Republican nominee,
Trump at times seemed engrossed in the litigation and repeatedly defended the
business from the stump.

At a rally in San Diego in May, Trump dissected the matter at length, insisting
that most customers who had spent money on the real estate program had been
pleased.

Trump's San Diego statements included an attack on Federal District Court Judge
Gonzalo Curiel, who was overseeing the California cases.

In subsequent interviews in June, Trump continued to press complaints against
Curiel, alleging that the Indiana-born judge was biased because of his Mexican
heritage.

Curiel had urged a settlement in the cases pending in his courtroom, where
Trump's lawyers had recently asked for a delay, citing the burdens of the
presidential transition.

Curiel said the agreement - $21 million for two San Diego cases and $4 million
for a New York case - is subject to his approval.

Plaintiffs' attorney Jason Forge, who confirmed the deal, said participants in
the class-action litigation will get at least half of their money back and some
will get it all.

Associated Press contributed.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             517 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                           November 19, 2016 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Trump steers to right for his first choices

BYLINE: Evan Halper ;and David S. Cloud

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950  words



HIGHLIGHT: Rep. Mike Pompeo of Kansas has been chosen to head the CIA. Sen. Jeff
Sessions is to be nominated as attorney general. Retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn
is to be national security adviser. Former presidential candidate and
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney is expected to meet with Donald Trump over
the weekend. South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley is mentioned as one of the more
moderate figures Donald Trump is considering for office and planning to speak
with.DON CAMPBELL/AP John Raoux/AP


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump began filling his Cabinet on Friday
with stalwarts of the right, signaling with a trio of top national security and
law enforcement selections that he will aggressively pursue promises he made
during the campaign that have caused deep anxiety among immigrant and Muslim
communities.

Trump's choices dimmed speculation that he would move to the center as he begins
to govern a nation still deeply fractured and on edge, uncertain how the
president-elect would proceed.

On Friday, Trump provided some clarity about his intentions.

Trump's choice for attorney general, Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama,
is an anti-immigration crusader deeply disliked by civil rights activists.

The president-elect's choice for national security adviser, retired Lt. Gen.
Michael Flynn, is an experienced warrior who has suggested that Americans should
fear all Muslims.

Rep. Mike Pompeo of Kansas, who got the nod for CIA director, broke with
colleagues on the House Benghazi Committee to co-author a minority report
accusing Hillary Clinton of a cover-up.

The choices renewed the rancor Trump set off earlier in the week when he named
as his top White House strategist Stephen Bannon, the media executive who has
aligned himself with white nationalists.

They presaged a contentious start to the Trump administration, with Democrats
and civil rights activists vowing to use Senate hearings to put the spotlight on
the controversial pasts of the selections who must be confirmed, which include
Sessions and Pompeo.

Trump advisers and GOP lawmakers moved quickly to highlight moments in the
careers of the men when they worked with colleagues across the aisle. They
suggested that Friday's announcements don't necessarily indicate Trump is
heading in a sharply ideological direction, as many more top spots have yet to
be filled.

GOP establishment favorite and 2012 presidential nominee Mitt Romney, for
example, is slated to meet with Trump this weekend, months after giving a speech
arguing that Trump would be an unqualified and dangerous president. Trump is
also talking with South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley, another favorite of
moderates.

But the positioning did little to quiet an outcry, with the angriest and
fiercest response directed at Sessions.

"If you have nostalgia for the days when blacks kept quiet, gays were in the
closet, immigrants were invisible and women stayed in the kitchen, Sen.
Jefferson Beauregard Sessions is your man," Rep. Luis Gutiérrez, D-Ill., said in
a statement.

Sessions, 69, was one of the earliest and most enthusiastic backers of Trump's
presidential bid. While he is generally liked by colleagues in both political
parties, he is among the hardest-liners on immigration in Congress, and his
selection ensures that the limits on immigration and expanded deportations that
Trump called for during the campaign are likely to be at the forefront of his
administration's policies.

Sessions made racially insensitive remarks that cost him a federal judgeship in
1986, when the Senate Judiciary Committee drilled down on the comments. If
confirmed to be attorney general, Sessions would lead an agency that under
President Obama has waded aggressively into civil rights issues, particularly
after the unrest sparked by the killings of black men by police officers in
recent years.

Sessions' Republican colleagues quickly closed ranks around him Friday,
suggesting that his confirmation is likely. Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell of Kentucky praised him, pointing to how Sessions has collaborated
with some of the Senate's most liberal lawmakers on legislation..

Incoming Senate Democratic Leader Charles  Schumer of New York warned that his
cordial relationship with Sessions, with whom he exercises at the gym, does not
give the nominee a pass on tough questioning. The appointment of Flynn, which
does not require Senate confirmation, raised similar concerns of racial and
ethnic animosity. Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., a senior member of the Senate
Intelligence Committee, put Flynn in the same category as Bannon, saying the two
embody Trump's "most divisive rhetoric."

Flynn has been an outspoken critic of the Obama administration's approach to
Islamic militancy. He has argued that acts of terrorism committed by Muslims are
rooted in mainstream Islamic faith. In February, Flynn tweeted a YouTube video
that says all Muslims should be feared and lists bombings perpetrated by
Muslims. "Fear of Muslims is RATIONAL: please forward this to others: the truth
fears no questions," Flynn wrote.

"He is familiar with the complex set of security challenges we face," Sen Jack
Reed, D-R.I., the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee, said in a
statement. "And President-elect Trump does not have a lot of experience in this
arena." But Reed also expressed concern with comments Flynn made "in the heat of
the campaign."

Pompeo, a former Army officer and aerospace executive, was elected as part of
the 2010 tea party wave election. He has defended as legal the CIA's
waterboarding and other torture, which Trump has said he wants to bring back
over the objections of military and intelligence leaders.

Pompeo's nomination to run the CIA "is profoundly disturbing," Glenn Carle, a
former senior officer who was involved in the CIA's interrogation and detention
program, said in a telephone interview from Dubai. Carle, who spent 23 years as
a spy before retiring in 2007, has criticized the agency's brutal treatment of
detainees.

Democrats took a less hostile posture toward Pompeo than Trump's other
selections. The top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, Rep. Adam
Schiff of California, called Pompeo "very bright and hardworking."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             518 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Md. would limit Electoral College

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333  words



HIGHLIGHT: Hillary Clinton won the popular vote but is losing the Electoral
College vote.Chip Somodevilla/


Maryland was the first state in the country to agree to bypass the Electoral
College as we know it today.

Had enough other states also agreed to the compact Maryland joined in 2007, last
week's presidential election would have been won by Democrat Hillary Clinton.

The deal Maryland agreed to nine years ago, known as the National Popular Vote
Interstate Compact, would sidestep the traditional process and award a majority
of the Electoral College votes to the winner of the popular vote.

But for the compact to kick in, states with a combined 270 votes need to agree
to it. So far, only 10 states and the District of Columbia - which have a
combined 165 votes - have agreed to the deal. They include such electoral
powerhouses as California, Illinois and New York.

This month's presidential election reopened a long-running debate about the
wisdom of using the Electoral College to determine the nation's commander in
chief.

While Clinton leads the popular vote for president, Republican Donald J. Trump
handily won the Electoral College and, therefore, the presidency.

Established in Article Two of the U.S. Constitution, the Electoral College was
levels the playing field between smaller states and more populous, vote-rich
states.

But the system has long been criticized, once by President-elect Trump, who in
2012 called it a "disaster." Now he tweets, "The Electoral College is actually
genius in that it brings all states, including the smaller ones, into play.
Campaigning is much different!"

Democrats dissatisfied with this election's results tend to disagree.

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders said last week that the Electoral College makes
whole states irrelevant. "Maryland is totally irrelevant. ... Republican
candidates are not going to go there," Sanders told an audience at the Johns
Hopkins University on Thursday evening. "Democratic candidates are not going to
go there. What does that mean for the people of Maryland?"

Baltimore Sun reporter Tim Prudente contributed to this article.

- Erin Cox

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             519 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 5Star Edition

Dance critics ignore Trump's impact

BYLINE: Dan ;Rodricks

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 804  words


After reading Baltimore County school board member Ann Miller's call for the
resignation of Superintendent Dallas Dance - on election night, he retweeted a
fellow educator's advice to love and protect minority students - I sent her an
email to ask if she had voted for Donald Trump. It seemed like a natural
question. What can I say? I can't help myself.

"Way to stay on topic, Mr. Rodricks," was her response.

Ouch, right?

But I didn't take the snappy retort personally. It didn't send me spinning into
a long, dark night of bourbon and self-examination. It just affirmed a kind of
dishonesty or cluelessness about this tempest in a teapot: Dance's instruction
to teachers to comfort and protect minority students who might feel uneasy.

Of course, it wasn't Dance's instruction. The original tweet came from Josh
Starr, a former Montgomery County superintendent, who urged educators to "show
your muslim, black, latino, jewish, disabled, or just non-white St's, that you
love them and will protect them!"

Miller thinks Dance should lose his job, that he showed poor judgment by
retweeting a comment that excluded white kids.

As if white kids needed special attention the day after Trump's election.

As if minority students did not.

That's the dishonesty or cluelessness of the complaint.

That's why I asked Miller if she had voted for Trump. If you voted for Trump,
then you must have had no problem with some of the aggressive statements - the
frequent emphasis of his campaign - on banning or deporting certain immigrants.
And you probably see Dance's retweet as an attempt to address a problem where
there is none. You probably see it as divisive.

Miller made that very point in her Dance-must-go op-ed in The Baltimore Sun the
other day: "It is causing division and racial tensions, when we need healing and
unity."

Which sounds exactly like Trump's comments on Election Night: "Now it is time
for America to bind the wounds of division. ... I say it is time for us to come
together as one united people."

The man spent a year and a half featuring the most bigoted rhetoric heard from a
major-party presidential candidate in our lifetimes, then called for a national
kumbaya.

Whether Trump supporters like it or admit it, their candidate worked the room.
He exploited fears about terrorism, immigrants and protesters, called for
ramped-up deportations, and ended up making a lot of people - particularly
non-white people, Muslims and refugees - feel uneasy and even afraid. As he
assembles his White House staff and Cabinet, there are even more reasons for
certain groups to worry about the next four years.

So yes, that retweeted tweet might have been poorly worded. But I don't knock
the guy for the message on a night of high emotion. It shows a grasp of
political and social reality. The Baltimore County school system has a diverse
population of 110,000 students; white students are now a minority, and the
number of immigrant students is growing.

More than anything else, I suspect that people who knock Dance for his
love-and-protect retweet are probably sensitive to what it says about Trump's
election. Your man won, folks, but lots of our fellow citizens are nervous about
the development.

In one respect - and not the one his critics hold - I agree that Dance's message
could have included white kids because I suspect plenty of them also must feel
uneasy or confused about what happened on Nov. 8.

From Pikesville to Parkville, from Woodlawn to White Hall, there are probably
hundreds of boys and girls who can't believe that a man who behaved like a bully
and spoke like a bigot has been elected president. Those kids probably need
comforting, too.

Many of Baltimore County's young people attend schools with diverse student
bodies. They're probably wondering how 60 million Americans decided that a man
who mocked a disabled reporter, questioned the motives of Gold Star
Muslim-American parents, disparaged Mexicans and called for a ban on Muslim
immigrants and refugees should ascend to the nation's highest office.

Middle and high school students across Baltimore County, who study hard and
aspire to attend college, must scratch their heads that a man who knows so
little about the functions of government and the nation's relations to other
countries could win the White House.

And all those boys who have been lectured about respecting girls - they must be
shocked that a man who was recorded boasting about forcing himself on women, and
then was accused by several women of just such behavior, could become our head
of state.

So, if anything, Dallas Dance should be encouraging discussions in classrooms
throughout the county, offering love and comfort to those who are concerned and
afraid, and an explanation to those who, like many of their parents, are dazed
and confused.

dan.rodricks@baltsun.com

dan.rodricks@baltsun.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             520 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Fake news a symptom of sickness in media ecosystem

BYLINE: ;David Zurawik

SECTION: FEATURES; E; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423  words



HIGHLIGHT: "Of all the content on Facebook, more than 99% of what people see is
authentic," wrote Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg last week. Facebook CEO Mark
Zuckerberg says it is "extremely unlikely hoaxes changed the outcome of this
election in one direction or the other."LLUIS GENE/AFP/Getty Images JOSH
EDELSON/AFP/Getty Images


We are living on the edge of - if not already in - an information crisis. And it
seems as if we are too addled by all the fake news, misinformation,
disinformation, bad reporting and flat-out propaganda at places like Facebook,
Twitter, Reddit and Google to even know how far gone we are.

Fake news, which gained serious traction during the presidential campaign, is
only part of the problem. But it's a big part, and the confusion it can spread
was on sorry display in recent months - particularly on social media where more
than 62 percent of Americans now go for news and information, according to the
Pew Research Center.

Did you know that President-elect Donald Trump not only won the most electoral
votes, he also beat Hillary Clinton in the popular vote?

How about Vice President-elect Mike Pence saying in an interview with Fox News
that gay conversion therapy saved his marriage?

And what about Pope Francis endorsing Trump? Who would have thought?

And why in the world would a New York Times columnist like David Brooks be
calling for Trump's assassination?

Just to be clear: None of those stories is true. But they all found their way
onto social media where millions not only were exposed to them, but also
participated in their toxic spread by clicking and sending them on in this
fabulous new form of communication that was supposed to make us into one great,
enlightened, global community.

A BuzzFeed analysis published Wednesday found that fake news was more popular
than real news on Facebook down the homestretch of the election. During the last
three months of the campaign, the most popular fake election stories on Facebook
generated more engagement than the top stories from such legitimate news
websites as those of The New York Times, The Washington Post, NBC News and
others.

There was also a bias in the range of stories, according to the analysis.

"Of the 20 top-performing false election stories ... all but three were overtly
pro-Donald Trump or anti-Hillary Clinton," Craig Silverman, founding editor of
BuzzFeed Canada, wrote. "Two of the biggest false hits were a story claiming
Clinton sold weapons to ISIS and a hoax claiming the pope endorsed Trump."

Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg initially called the charge that fake news on his
platform affected the election "a pretty crazy idea."

And even in the face of mounting criticism and reports of a group of Facebook
employees questioning the role fake news on the site played in the election, he
has mainly stuck to his guns.

"Of all the content on Facebook, more than 99% of what people see is authentic,"
he wrote on his page last weekend. "Only a very small amount is fake news and
hoaxes. The hoaxes that do exist are not limited to one partisan view, or even
to politics. Overall, this makes it extremely unlikely hoaxes changed the
outcome of this election in one direction or the other."

On Monday, Facebook did update the language of its policy statement to stress
that it will not share revenue with sites that traffic in fake news, but that's
not much more than window dressing at this point. The site already had a similar
policy in place.

Antonio Garcia Martinez, a former product manager for ad targeting at Facebook,
called Zuckerberg's response hypocritical.

"Here's the real hypocrisy of it," he told show host Chris Hayes on MSNBC
Tuesday night. "Facebook has hundreds of sales people with a huge office in
Washington, D.C. And they literally go and tell political advertisers, 'Look,
Facebook is the most influential platform in the world. We will win you an
election." And then, Zuck turns around and says, 'No, there's no possibly way
that Facebook can influence the election.' It's really disingenuous of him to
sort of claim this and I think on the face of it, really false."

Zuckerberg has consistently shown a lack of interest in the crucial public
service role media play in a democracy. And now he is running a media platform
that more people engage with for political news than they do The New York Times
or NBC.

That is a chilling thought. It should also be a wake-up call that we reached a
tipping point during this election in the declining influence of legacy era
gatekeepers vs. the ever-expanding power of click-driving, social-media
entrepreneurs like Zuckerberg.

Nor is the problem limited to Facebook.

Last Sunday, Dan Abrams reported on Mediaite that when he Google-searched "Final
Vote Count 2016," the top result was a link to a website titled 70news. The
story there said that Trump not only won the electoral college vote, he also
beat Clinton in the popular vote.

"The goal of search is to provide the most relevant and useful results for our
users," Andrea Faville, a spokeswoman for Google, said in a statement Monday.
"In this case, we clearly didn't get it right, but we are always working to
improve our algorithms."

There it is: The almighty algorithm, the secret sauce that can't possibly be
shared, once again being used to silence critics.

"For years, companies like Google and Facebook have hidden behind the argument
of, 'We just use math. We don't have the position of the editorship function. We
don't decide what we show you. It's just math. We optimize for engagement. We
show you stuff that we know you're going to comment and like on, and that's
it,'" Martinez said. "And I think when the stakes become American democracy,
that excuse just isn't good enough."

For all the sins of the culture that controlled legacy media before the Internet
blew it up, gatekeepers in that world were acculturated to a sense of social
responsibility, verification of information and fairness of presentation. Those
values have been largely lost even by some of the biggest legacy operations as
we moved deeper into the digital frontier.

Why don't media critics and Facebook users demand the same standards of accuracy
they do for The New York Times or Washington Post - especially now that we know
how crucial a role social media play in the conversation of democracy?

And why doesn't an entrepreneur like Zuckerberg take some of the money his
wildly successful platform makes and hire journalists who embody the highest
standards of the profession to be part of the management team making editorial
decisions?

As dangerous as it is to get the government involved in such media matters, a
few high-level hearings on the role Facebook and other sites played in this
year's election wouldn't hurt - especially with some angry Democrats asking
questions.

As often as I've complained about President Barack Obama playing media critic, I
was happy to hear him slam fake news and social media during a press conference
Thursday in Berlin.

The good news: Fake news and the role it plays in the nation's political life
will be getting more serious scrutiny in coming months.

"I don't want to say it came out of nowhere, but the fake news meme or
phenomenon was not an issue we were thinking of so prominently even a few months
ago," Aaron Smith, associate director of research for the Pew Research Center,
said. "It's now on the radar. ... And it's not just us. There are a lot of
researchers out there who are going to be trying to figure out how to map and
evaluate the impact of this kind of information."

The bad news: Our media malaise runs much deeper than Facebook or even fake
news. Our information ecosystem is very sick. We have more information and media
technology than ever. Yet we have never been more confused politically as a
nation. And we now have a president-elect with 25 million social media followers
who often retweets and posts without any nod toward verification.

"I'm an old-school journalist trained by the last of the old guard," said Brooke
Binkowski, managing editor of the booming website Snopes.com, which exposes fake
news stories. "And one of the concerns I have is that people are going to say,
'Oh, it's all Facebook's fault. Once we get Facebook to clamp down on fake news,
everything's going to be good.' "

But there's a much larger issue that's not being addressed, Binkowski said. Fake
news wouldn't be thriving if citizens had sources of information they could
trust.

"The larger issue is that the public has lost faith in the press," she said.
"And there are some good reasons for that with all that's happened to newsrooms
in the wake of layoffs, downsizing and all the rest. A free press with the
resources it needs is essential to a healthy democracy. You have to have
reliable information. If voters don't have good information, you don't have a
good democracy."

david.zurawik@baltsun.com

twitter.com/davidzurawik

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             521 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                                 4Star Edition

Still stocking Cabinet, Trump unloads online

BYLINE: Del Quentin Wilber

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 542  words



HIGHLIGHT: President-elect Donald Trump walks Mitt Romney out after their
meeting Saturday in Bedminster Township, N.J.Drew Angerer/Getty


WASHINGTON - President-elect Donald Trump on Saturday met with an eclectic mix
of potential Cabinet picks, including high-profile Republican foe Mitt Romney,
while also launching a Twitter storm boasting about settling his
multimillion-dollar Trump University lawsuit and criticizing the cast of the hit
Broadway musical "Hamilton" for lecturing his Vice President-elect Mike Pence
about "American values."

When not taking to Twitter, Trump spent the afternoon ensconced in his posh golf
club in Bedminster, N.J., where the high-profile guests included Romney, a
former GOP presidential candidate Trump is believed to be considering for
secretary of state.

Among the eight potential candidates getting face-time with Trump were Michelle
Rhee, the education activist who is a contender for education secretary, and
Betsy DeVos, a Republican donor from Michigan who is an advocate for school
vouchers.

Patrick Soon-Shiong, who made his fortune developing an anti-cancer drug, also
met with Trump on Saturday.

Soon-Shiong, a vice chairman of Tronc, the parent company of The Baltimore Sun,
Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times and other newspapers, has been involved with
Vice President Joe Biden's cancer moonshot initiative.

The meetings are scheduled to continue Sunday.

The most anticipated sit-down involved Romney, who during the campaign was
critical of the president-elect's character and policy positions.

The former Massachusetts governor shook hands with Trump when he arrived at
Trump National Golf Club and told reporters 90 minutes later that the pair spoke
about U.S. interests around the globe.

"We discussed those areas, and exchanged our views on those topics - a very
thorough and in-depth discussion in the time we had," Romney said upon leaving
the golf club, which is 50 miles west of Trump Tower in downtown New York City.
"And I appreciate the chance to speak with the president-elect, and I look
forward to the coming administration and the things that it's going to be
doing."

Trump walked Romney out at the end of the meeting and said "it went great."

Trump also met with retired Gen. James Mattis, calling him "the real deal."

Mattis is considered a contender to lead the Pentagon.

Trump wouldn't say if he was offering Mattis a job, saying "we'll see."

Trump also briefly bantered with reporters.

"Everything OK out there?" he asked. "Need some chocolate, need something? I'll
send some stuff. I'm not allowed to do that, but I will."

The president-elect also addressed the $25 million settlement announced Friday
against the now-defunct Trump University.

Trump said Saturday that he settled the lawsuit  because he needs to focus on
the country.

"The ONLY bad thing about winning the Presidency is that I did not have the time
to go through a long but winning trial on Trump U. Too bad!" he said on Twitter.

Meanwhile, he demanded an apology from the cast of the musical "Hamilton" a day
after an actor delivered a pointed message about diversity to his running mate
who was in attendance.

The speech aimed at Mike Pence prompted angry responses from liberals and
conservatives alike. Some Trump supporters called for a boycott of the Broadway
show, which is sold out through next year.

Associated Press contributed.

del.wilber@latimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             522 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            November 20, 2016 Sunday
                             AdvanceBulldog Edition

Family holdings create issues

BYLINE: Drew Harwell

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 945  words



HIGHLIGHT: President-elect Donald Trump and his family talk about the election
and its aftermath on "60 Minutes." From left are Trump, his wife, Melania, and
his eldest daughter, Ivanka. On the top row are Tiffany and his sons Donald Jr.
and Eric.Chris Albert/CBS News


One day after President-elect Donald Trump's daughter Ivanka spoke to "60
Minutes" about her father's rise to power, her jewelry line alerted journalists
to a surprising fact: The incoming first daughter was wearing an Ivanka Trump
Fine Jewelry-brand bracelet, which could be bought for $10,800.

It was the first televised interview with the  incoming commander in chief of a
deeply anxious America. Part of the segment also included members of his family.
But it was also, for the Trump company, an undeniable promotional opportunity.
The 18-karat Metropolis diamond bangle, a gold version of which sold for $8,800,
was Ivanka's "favorite bangle," a company vice president told journalists in a
"style alert."

The sales tactic marked one of the first moments since the election during which
the Trump companies have sought to use Trump's presidential prominence to boost
their private fortunes.

But it may not be the last.

Ethics advisers have increasingly voiced concerns over the unprecedented
conflicts of interest that could arise from the soon-to-be first family's empire
of real estate, luxury goods and licensing deals.

"This will keep a spotlight on the family business, on the members of the
family, how they run the business and their interactions with the government,"
said Jan Witold Baran, a partner at Washington law firm Wiley Rein. "Family
members can create problems all on their own."

Abigail Klem, president of the Ivanka Trump brand, said the notification about
the bracelet "was sent by a well-intentioned marketing employee at one of our
companies who was following customary protocol, and who, like many of us, is
still making adjustments post-election. We are proactively discussing new
policies and procedures with all of our partners going forward."

Ivanka Trump has said she wants to stay involved in her business and is not
interested in an official role in her father's administration. But officials
said Ivanka and her siblings will have influential roles in deciding the players
and policies of Trump's time in office.

The presidential campaign was a ripe time for Trump corporate marketing.

In July, Ivanka Trump's fashion line advertised on Twitter that shoppers could
buy the dress she wore during her Republican National Convention speech. The
websites of Macy's and Nordstrom later that day said the dress was sold out.

In the first months of Trump's campaign, revenue at his palatial Florida resort,
Mar-a-Lago, nearly doubled.

Conflict-of-interest laws do not block a president or his family from involving
themselves in matters that could boost their private companies' wealth or
prominence. But the promotional spots since Trump's electoral victory reveal the
many potential entanglements that could influence his  presidency.

Trump has resisted the tradition set by most presidents before him of selling or
handing over his assets into a "blind trust" controlled by an independent
manager.

He said he intends to give control of his companies to Ivanka and his other
children, an arrangement that ethics experts say does little to put distance
between Trump's presidential decision-making and personal estate.

During the "60 Minutes" interview, Ivanka Trump sought to maintain her
connection to the licensing and merchandising deals she had forged as a
businesswoman.

When asked whether she would assume a role in Trump's White House, Ivanka Trump
said she would not, adding: "I'm going to be a daughter. But I've said
throughout the campaign that I am very passionate about certain issues and I
want to fight for them.

"There are a lot of things that I feel really strongly about, but not in a
formal administrative capacity."

Alan Garten, an executive vice president and general counsel with the Trump
Organization, said in September that Trump would take "significant steps to
avoid even the appearance of impropriety."

Trump has given no indication how he will handle ongoing litigation against his
business interests including, most immediately, a fraud lawsuit against the
now-defunct Trump University real estate seminars that is scheduled to go to
trial Nov. 28 in California.

Trump is also named personally as a defendant in the suit, which alleges that
customers who paid for the program were duped by claims that Trump had
handpicked seminar instructors.

Trump's lawyers have asked to delay the start of the trial until after his
inauguration, citing the "momentous, exceedingly complex" task of building a
government and preparing to take office. Lawyers for former Trump University
customers have opposed the motion, arguing Trump will only become more busy
after he takes office.

U.S. District Judge Gonzalo Curiel - whom Trump had accused during the campaign
of being biased because of his Mexican heritage - on Tuesday ordered both sides
to present their arguments regarding the delay at a hearing Friday.

Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, one of Trump's fiercest surrogates,
defended Trump's conflict-of-interest decisions Sunday, saying that following
the traditions of past presidents would unfairly penalize the Trump family.

"He would basically put his children out of work if - and they'd have to go
start a whole new business, and that would set up the whole - set up new
problems," Giuliani told CNN.

Trump's globe-spanning network of business interests has sparked new questions
over the independence of his domestic policy-making and foreign negotiations.
Trump companies are partially indebted to major banks in Germany and China, and
Trump wrote in financial-disclosure filings that he is involved in more than 500
companies, some of them found in diplomatically sensitive countries such as
Azerbaijan and Saudi Arabia.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             523 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            November 21, 2016 Monday
                                 First Edition

Hillary and history

BYLINE: Carolyn L. Buck

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 647  words



HIGHLIGHT: Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton has had a long
public life. History books should tell her full story, not just the part
involving Donald Trump.Andrew Harnik/Associated Press


In the Broadway blockbuster "Hamilton," there is a haunting refrain: "Who lives?
Who dies? Who tells your story?" Before the musical, much of Alexander
Hamilton's legacy was lost. He was a founding father and Treasury secretary, but
was known better for having been killed in a duel with Aaron Burr than for his
accomplishments.

What will history tell future generations about the woman who would have/could
have/should have been the first female president of the United States? She was
twice a candidate. In 2008, she ran unsuccessfully in the Democratic primaries
against Barack Obama, the man who would go on to become our nation's first black
president. And now in 2016, nearly a decade later, she finally wins the
Democratic Party's nomination - wins the national popular vote - but she does
not carry the Electoral College.

Will they tell her story from the perspective of a long-suffering former first
lady, whose charismatic husband was impeached but not convicted, the charges
rooted in his tawdry conduct with a 21-year-old White House intern?

Will they describe her work representing New York as a senator in Washington,
later to be appointed secretary of state? Will they describe her grace under
pressure in an email scandal? Will they speak of her love for her only child,
Chelsea? How will history portray the Clinton marriage? Did Hillary seal her
fate by remaining in it? Or had she made her deal with the devil and seen her
husband as an inconvenient but necessary catalyst in her political career?

Right now, I will focus on the photo-gone-viral of Hillary Clinton the day after
her dignified and poised concession speech, posing alongside a young mother with
her child in a carrier strapped onto her back. The photo was taken, apparently
by Bill Clinton, as he and his wife encountered the young woman during a walk in
the woods near their suburban New York home. Hillary appears to be relaxed. (I
think she may have even been wearing leggings.) She has on little to no makeup.
She could be any of us, looking much as I do on a Saturday as I run errands at
the supermarket, the mall or going out for a movie with my husband.

We can speculate that "this Hillary" might have appealed more to the Rust Belt
voters. We can come up with all sorts of explanations detailing her inability to
connect with the less educated. A Wellesley-educated woman with a degree from
Yale School of Law still could not break the glass ceiling to become our first
female president. How will history tell her story, should that achievement go to
a woman with pop star status? (Michael Moore has suggested perhaps Oprah
Winfrey.)

Ultimately, when the 2016 Trump victory is described by historians, Hillary's
fate will be intertwined with his. There will be a supporting character of
Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, a populist with socialist appeal to the young as
part of the rising action in the political drama. Political pundits and
reporters will serve as a contemporary Greek chorus, chanting key phrases from
the sidelines: "basket of deplorables" and "what about her health?"

The denouement will strike many as ironic tragedy. The image of President Obama
demonstrating merciful acceptance of the election results, asking the nation to
root for the success of the soon-to-be President Trump. Yet not once in his
eight years in office did Mr. Obama's critics and opponents (Mr. Trump among
them) ever root for him. President Obama's exit from office will be life
imitating art in its parallel to the scene in "Hamilton" in which George
Washington heads home to Virginia.

My sincere hope is that when her story is told, the legacy of Hillary Rodham
Clinton will stand on its own merit rather than in the shadows of Donald Trump
and his self-proclaimed brand of big is better.

Carolyn L. Buck is director of institutional advancement at the Institute of
Notre Dame; her email is bucklaz@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             524 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                           November 22, 2016 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Carson now says he'd consider if Trump makes offer

BYLINE: John Fritze

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 339  words


WASHINGTON - Less than a week after indicating he would not seek a position in
President-elect Donald Trump's administration, retired Johns Hopkins
neurosurgeon Ben Carson has seemed to soften that stance, indicating he would
give any offer "serious consideration."

The renowned physician ran an unsuccessful campaign for president this year and
then became an early and vocal surrogate for Trump.

Carson's background in health care made him the center of speculation as a
possible secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. His name has
also come up as a potential secretary of education.

"Basically, I've said my preference is to be outside and to act as an adviser,
but if after going through the process they all conclude it would be much better
to have me in the Cabinet, I would have to give that very serious
consideration," Carson told Fox News on Sunday. "It's just not my preference."

The comments came days after Carson and his aides appeared to throw cold water
on the idea of a job in the administration. His business manager and spokesman,
Armstrong Williams, told several media outlets last week that Carson was not
interested.

"Dr. Carson feels he has no government experience, he's never run a federal
agency," Williams told The Hill newspaper in Washington. "The last thing he
would want to do was take a position that could cripple the presidency."

Trump has focused since the election on building a national security team, but
he has also met in recent days with several national education leaders.

Several Marylanders are under consideration for jobs in Trump's administration.
The name of John Bolton, a former ambassador to the United Nations, was floated
early as a possible secretary of state. Montgomery County Republican David
Bossie is considered a contender to lead the Republican National Committee.

Carson, 65, suspended his presidential campaign in March following a fifth-place
finish on Super Tuesday and disappointing results in other early states.

john.fritze@baltsun.com

twitter.com/jfritze

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                             525 of 1405 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                 4Star Edition

Dance's retweet draws attention at meeting

BYLINE: Liz Bowie

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 347  words


Some parents and students fought back against criticism of Baltimore County
schools Superintendent Dallas Dance at the school board meeting Tuesday night,
saying that he was right to show concern for students who might be fearful the
day after the election.

Dance came under criticism for a retweet he made on election night that asked
educators to reach out to students who may have felt maligned during the U.S.
presidential campaign.

The tweet from Josh Starr, a former Montgomery County superintendent, said:
"Educators: tomorrow pls show your muslim, black, latino, jewish, disabled, or
just non-white St's, that you love them and will protect them!"

June Keating, a 10th-grade student at Towson High School, said she was not a fan
of Dance's but that she felt compelled to speak up on his behalf. "The post he
retweeted called for love and support, not for hatred, discrimination or
divisiveness," she said. She said as a white student, she did not feel it was
racist against white students, as some of Dance's critics have contended.

Brooks Morales, a Baltimore County parent and Baltimore City teacher, said there
is a need to show compassion to children who are fearful.

"In the days after the election, I have dried tears of kindergarten students who
are afraid that their families won't be safe, and my response to them is the
same that any of yours would be: You are safe at school," she said.

Signs in the back of the school board meeting room said "Love for All Students"
and "We Stand With Dallas Dance." On the other side were signs that read "Done
with Dance" and "Remove Dance."

None of those who spoke at the meeting criticized Dance. The board did not
comment.

The tweet was posted on a Baltimore County parent's Facebook page and drew fire
from some Baltimore County politicians. The debate continued with parents,
legislators and school board members contending on Facebook.

Some parents have suggested that Dance should resign over the incident or be
fired. The majority of the board, however, appears unconcerned by his tweet.

liz.bowie@baltsun.com

twitter.com/lizbowie

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved
